<document>

<filing_date>
2013-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/88,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BLACKBERRY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALMALKI, NAZIH
LOMBARDI, ROBERT JOSEPH
MCBRIDE, BRIAN EVERETT
GOLDSMITH, MICHAEL ANDREW
PAPO, ALEKSANDAR
MULAOSMANOVIC, JASMIN
RABINOVITCH, PETER MARK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49596108
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MOBILE COMMUNICATIONS DEVICE PROVIDING HEURISTIC SECURITY AUTHENTICATION FEATURES AND RELATED METHODS
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile communications device may include a plurality of first input devices capable of passively collecting input data, a second input device(s) capable of collecting response data based upon a challenge, and a processor capable of determining a level of assurance (LOA) that possession of the mobile communications device has not changed based upon a statistical behavioral model and the passively received input data, and comparing the LOA with a security threshold. When the LOA is above the security threshold, the processor may be capable of performing a given mobile device operation without requiring response data from the second input device(s). When the LOA falls below the security threshold, the processor may be capable of generating the challenge, performing the given mobile device operation responsive to valid response data, and adding recent input data to the statistical behavioral model responsive to receipt of the valid response data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile communications device (30) including: a plurality of first input devices (31-38) capable of passively collecting input data; at least one second input device capable of collecting response data based upon a challenge; and a processor (40) coupled to the plurality of first input devices (31-38) and the at least one second input device and capable of determining a level of assurance, LOA, that possession of the mobile communications device (30) has not changed based upon a statistical behavioral model and the passively collected input data from the plurality of first input devices (31-38), comparing the LOA with a security threshold, when the LOA is above the security threshold, performing a given mobile device operation without requiring response data from the at least one second input device, and when the LOA falls below the security threshold, generating the challenge, performing the given mobile device operation responsive to valid response data from the at least one second input device, characterized by adding recent input data to the statistical behavioral model responsive to receipt of the valid response data, or excluding the recent input data from the statistical behavioral model responsive to invalid response data, wherein the determining the LOA is performed by an LOA engine (41) implemented as an artificial neural network providing an artificial intelligence, AI, for learning new passive factors that are indicative of the behavior of an authorized user(s).
2. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the plurality of first input devices (31-38) include at least some of a position sensing device, a microphone, a gyroscope, an accelerometer, a compass, at least one input key, a pressure sensor, an image sensor, or a touch sensor.
3. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein at least one of: the at least one second input device is capable of collecting gesture response data based upon the challenge; and the at least one second input device is capable of collecting signature response data based upon the challenge.
4. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the at least one second input device is capable of collecting image response data based upon the challenge.
5. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the at least one second input device is capable of collecting at least one of iris or facial scanning response data based upon the challenge.
6. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the statistical behavioral model includes a Bayesian statistical model.
7. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the processor (40) is further capable of running a plurality of different applications, and to determine the LOA further based upon a usage pattern of the plurality of applications.
8. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 further comprising a wireless transceiver coupled to the processor (40); and wherein the processor (40) determines the LOA further based upon a usage pattern of the wireless transceiver.
9. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the given mobile device operation is selected from among a plurality of different mobile device operations each having respective different security thresholds associated therewith; and wherein the processor (40) is capable of comparing the LOA with the corresponding security threshold for the given mobile device operation.
10. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the processor (40) is further capable of generating an authentication token based upon the LOA being above the security threshold, the authentication token capable of authorizing a transaction terminal to cooperate with the processor (40) to perform the mobile device operation.
11. The mobile communications device (30) of Claim 1 wherein the processor (40) is further configured to communicate LOA data to a cloud storage system.
12. A method for using a mobile communications device (30) including a plurality of first input devices (31-38) capable of passively collecting input data and at least one second input device capable of collecting response data based upon a challenge, the method comprising: determining a level of assurance, LOA, that possession of the mobile communications device (30) has not changed based upon a statistical behavioral model and the passively collected input data from the plurality of first input devices (31-38); comparing the LOA with a security threshold; when the LOA is above the security threshold, performing a given mobile device operation without requiring response data from the at least one second input device; and when the LOA falls below the security threshold, generating the challenge, performing the given mobile device operation responsive to valid response data from the at least one second input device, characterized by adding recent input data to the statistical behavioral model responsive to receipt of the valid response data, or excluding the recent input data from the statistical behavioral model responsive to invalid response data, wherein the determining the LOA is performed by an LOA engine (41) implemented as an artificial neural network providing an artificial intelligence, AI, for learning new passive factors that are indicative of the behavior of an authorized user(s).
13. The method of Claim 12 wherein the plurality of first input devices (31-38) include at least some of a position sensing device, a microphone, a gyroscope, an accelerometer, a compass, at least one input key, a pressure sensor, an image sensor, or a touch sensor.
14. The method of Claim 12 wherein the at least one second input device is capable of collecting any one or more of: gesture response data based upon the challenge; signature response data based upon the challenge; image response data based upon the challenge; iris scanning response data based upon the challenge; or facial scanning response data based upon the challenge.
15. A computer readable medium having computer-executable instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause a mobile communications device to perform the method of any of claims 12 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
