<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DIVALENTIN, LOUIS WILLIAM
ROZMIAREK, DAVID WILLIAM
CARVER, MATTHEW
LEFEBVRE, Michael L.
ELLET, Eric
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53476682
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DECEPTION NETWORK SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for implementing deception networks. One of the systems includes a threat information server configured to monitor and control security threats, a management process orchestration server configured to receive one or more identified security threats from the threat information server and develop a response process applicable to each identified security threat, a network switching controller in communication with one or more network switching devices, a target computing device connected to one of the network switching devices, and an indicator analytics processor configured to generate threat intelligence based on activity observed on the target device and provide the observed threat intelligence to the threat information server. The threat information server can receive threat intelligence information, identify key indicators, and generate identified security threats. The network switching controller can implement network topology changes in response to received instructions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A deception network system (200) comprising: a threat intelligence server (202) configured to monitor and control security threats, the threat intelligence server configured to: receive external threat intelligence information from one or more intelligence feeds and internal threat intelligence information from one or more internal network data sources, wherein internal threat intelligence and external threat intelligence information comprises information associated with one or more security threats; contextualize and store received threat intelligence information as one or more threat indicators associated with respective security threats, wherein contextualizing received threat intelligence information comprises matching threat intelligence information identified from internal security threats to external threat intelligence information identified from external security threats to supplement the received threat intelligence information; and identify key indicators and observables associated with the one or more security threats that are associated with the supplemented threat intelligence information; a management and process orchestration server (204) configured to: receive applicable threat intelligence information from the threat intelligence server, wherein the applicable threat intelligence information comprises the one or more identified key indicators and observables associated with the one or more security threats; identify an occurrence of a security threat as matching a key indicator; and execute a response process applicable to the identified occurrence of the security threat, comprising providing instructions to a networking controller (206) to redirect network traffic intended for a production environment (210) to a target device; a networking controller in communication with one or more network switching devices (214), the networking controller configured to implement network topology changes on the network switching devices in response to instructions received from the management and process orchestration server; a target computing device connected to one of the network switching devices wherein the target computing device comprises a honeypot environment; and an indicator analytics server (208) configured to generate internal threat intelligence information based on activity observed on the target device and provide the generated internal threat intelligence information to the threat information server.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the threat intelligence server is further configured to implement a process for consolidating and/or normalizing information associated with the one or more security threats.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising a second target computing device in communication with the deception network system.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the networking controller implements a network topology change in response to an instruction from the management and process orchestration server to redirect network traffic from the second target computing device to the honeypot environment.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the internal network data sources comprise the honeypot environment on the target computing device.
6. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, at a threat intelligence server, threat intelligence information associated with one or more security threats, comprising receiving external threat intelligence information from one or more intelligence feeds and internal threat intelligence information from internal network data sources, wherein the internal network data sources comprise a honeypot environment; contextualizing and storing, by the threat intelligence server, the threat intelligence information as one or more threat indicators corresponding to a security threat, wherein contextualizing received threat intelligence information comprises matching threat intelligence information identified from internal security threats to external threat intelligence information identified from external security threats to supplement the received threat intelligence information; identifying, by a management and process orchestration server, an occurrence of the security threat by detecting one or more of the threat indicators corresponding to the security threat; identifying, by the management and process orchestration server, a predetermined course of action to be performed in response to the identified security threat; and performing, by a networking controller, the predetermined course of action, wherein the performing comprises: identifying an endpoint under threat; performing a snapshot of a current session of the identified end-point; based at least in part on the snapshot, recreating the current session of the identified endpoint in a honeypot environment; and redirecting network traffic intended for the endpoint to the honeypot environment.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein contextualizing the threat intelligence information further comprises mapping threat actors to malware processes based on the internal and external threat intelligence information.
8. The method of any one of claims 6 to 7, wherein detecting of one or more of the threat indicators includes receiving information from one or more network data sources.
9. The method of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein identifying a predetermined course of action to be performed includes accessing information that associates the identified occurrence of the security threat with a predefined course of action.
10. The method of any one of claims 6 to 9, wherein the networking controller comprises a software-defined networking controller, and wherein redirecting network traffic includes providing instructions to the software-defined networking controller to change a network topology.
11. The method of any one of claims 6 to 10, further comprising: intercepting network traffic between the honeypot environment and an attacker; and analyzing the network traffic to identify one or more actionable threat indicators.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein intercepting network traffic between the honeypot environment and the attacker includes using deep packet inspection to identify information associated with an attack, as the attack is being performed.
13. A computer-readable device encoded with a computer program comprising instructions that, when executed, operate to cause a computer to perform operations comprising the method of any one of claims 6 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
