<document>

<filing_date>
2014-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABIB, ELBIO RENATO
IMADA, FABIO EIGI
JIAO, YU
MITRA, BHASKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51865609
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFERRING ENTITY ATTRIBUTE VALUES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable storage media are provided for inferring missing or ambiguous attribute values for entities based on partial information about such entities and/or information about other similar entities as extracted from multiple information sources for generating Web ranking signals for online search. A plurality of heterogeneous input data sources are ingested and combined to produce output data having information content that is more than the sum of its parts. A generic platform is provided where multiple data sources having information content related to entity attributes can be plugged-in without additional changes being necessary to the platform. This generic plugin model for extracting and inferring entity attribute values makes it easy to leverage new data sources as they become available to improve the final inferred attribute data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computer-readable storage media storing computer-useable instructions that, when used by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform a method for inferring entity attribute values, the method comprising: receiving a search query from a user; receiving data from multiple heterogeneous data sources, each data source storing information related to said search query, the data including a plurality of entity attribute values each associated with an entity and an attribute, the attribute having an associated attribute type and an attribute confidence score; creating a partial-to-attribute graph that includes the plurality of entity attribute values and associated entities, wherein a partial is a set of attributes and their corresponding attribute values for a particular entity; creating a partial-to-partial similarity graph based upon attribute overlap in the partial-to-attribute graph; identifying a specific partial corresponding to a first entity in the partial-to-partial similarity graph, the specific partial including a missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity; identifying one or more spatially proximate partials to the specific partial from the partial-to-partial similarity graph; inferring a possible value for the missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity by identifying, in aggregate across the one or more spatially proximate partials, values associated with the missing or ambiguous attribute; ranking entities retrieved in response to the search query, based on using said inferred value as a ranking signal; and providing search results in the form of entities to the user.
2. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the data received from multiple heterogeneous data sources is in a common format.
3. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: normalizing the plurality of entity attribute values across the data received from the multiple heterogeneous data sources; computing an authority score for each of the multiple heterogeneous data sources based upon comparisons with a truth set of data on a per attribute-type basis; and aggregating the data across the multiple heterogeneous data sources.
4. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein normalizing the plurality of entity attribute values comprises applying normalization logic that is specific to each attribute type.
5. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: normalizing the attribute confidence scores associated with each attribute; and scaling the normalized attribute confidence scores in aggregating the data across the multiple heterogeneous data sources.
6. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises reducing a number of graph connections in the partial-to-attribute graph prior to creating the partial-to-partial similarity graph.
7. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 6, wherein the number of graph connections in the partial-to-attribute graph is reduced by one of (1) creating one or more composite attributes and (2) removing attributes having associated attribute values that occur more than a threshold number of times.
8. The one or more computer-readable storage media of claim 1, wherein inferring the possible value for the missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity comprises creating a ranked set of possible values for the missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity based on confidence scores.
9. A method being performed by one or more computing devices including at least one processor, the method for inferring entity attribute values, the method comprising: receiving a search query from a user; receiving data from multiple heterogeneous data sources, each data source storing information related to said search query, the data including a plurality of entity attribute values each associated with an entity and an attribute, the attribute having an associated attribute type and an attribute confidence score; normalizing the plurality of entity attribute values across the data received from the multiple heterogeneous data sources; computing an authority score for each of the multiple heterogeneous data sources based upon comparisons with a truth set of data on a per attribute-type basis; normalizing the attribute confidence scores associated with each attribute; scaling the normalized attribute confidence scores; aggregating the data across the multiple heterogeneous data sources; creating a partial-to-attribute graph that includes the plurality of entity attribute values and associated entities, wherein a partial is a set of attributes and their corresponding attribute values for a particular entity; creating a partial-to-partial similarity graph based upon attribute overlap in the partial-to-attribute graph; identifying a specific partial corresponding to a first entity in the partial-to-partial similarity graph, the specific partial including a missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity; identifying one or more spatially proximate partials to the specific partial from the partial-to-partial similarity graph; and inferring a possible value for the missing or ambiguous attribute for the first entity by identifying, in aggregate across the one or more spatially proximate partials, values associated with the missing or ambiguous attribute; ranking entities retrieved in response to the search query, based on using said inferred value as a ranking signal; and providing search results in the form of entities to the user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the data received from multiple heterogeneous data sources is in a common format.
</claims>
</document>
