<document>

<filing_date>
2015-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/62,G06F21/78,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AO KASPERSKY LAB
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZAITSEV, OLEG V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52875586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SECURING USE OF A PORTABLE DRIVE WITH A COMPUTER NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Solution for autonomously securing the use of a portable drive with a computer network. A data store is written and maintained that contains entries corresponding to a plurality of portable drives initialized for use with the computer network, each entry corresponding to at least one identifiable drive. Events (121) are monitored as they occur on the computer network involving use of each of the plurality of portable drives. Predefined security policy determination criteria (132) are applied, which can include drive mobility assessment criteria (133) and drive content sensitivity criteria (134), to determine a drive-specific security policy for each one of the plurality of portable drives. A set of at least one policy enforcement action is executed that corresponds to a determined drive-specific security policy in response to detected usage activity for each one of the plurality of portable drives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising means for securing use of a portable drive interfaced with a computer network, the system comprising: a computing platform interfaced with the computer network, the computing platform including computing hardware of at least one processor, data storage, and input/output facilities, and an operating system implemented on the computing hardware; and instructions that, when executed on the computing platform, cause the computing platform to autonomously, without human interaction, implement: a drive registration engine (110) configured to write and maintain a data store containing entries corresponding to a plurality of portable drives initialized for use with the computer network, each entry corresponding to at least one identifiable drive; a drive monitoring engine (120) operatively coupled with the drive registration engine (110) and configured to monitor events (121) occurring on the computer network involving use of each of the plurality of portable drives; a security policy determination engine (130) operatively coupled with the drive monitoring engine (120) and configured to apply predefined security policy determination criteria (132), including: drive mobility assessment criteria (133) including criteria for determining a likelihood of whether a given portable drive will be used outside of the computer network or criteria for determining a likelihood of whether a given portable drive will be used outside of a defined segment of the computer network ; and drive content sensitivity criteria (134) indicative of the liability of the portable drive to vulnerabilities of software in a computer system with which the portable drive is interfaced, to determine a drive-specific security policy for each one of the plurality of portable drives; and a security policy enforcement engine (140) operatively coupled with the security policy determination engine (130), and configured to execute a set of at least one policy enforcement action corresponding to a determined drive-specific security policy in response to detected usage activity for each one of the plurality of portable drives.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the drive monitoring engine (120) is configured to log at least one property pertaining to each monitored event selected from the group consisting of: a type of operation performed using each monitored portable drive, a result of each operation involving each monitored portable drive, information identifying users that performed each operation involving each monitored portable drive, information identifying a computer on which the actions with each monitored portable drive are performed, a network segment in which the actions with each monitored portable drive are performed, compliance with established security policies corresponding to each monitored portable drive, or any combination thereof.
3. The system of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the set of at least one policy enforcement action includes an action selected from the group consisting of: application of an access restriction for a first portable drive based on the drive-specific security policy corresponding to the first portable drive, application of encryption to at least a portion of content stored on a first portable drive based on the drive-specific security policy corresponding to the first portable drive, removal of at least a portion of content stored on a first portable drive based on the drive-specific security policy corresponding to the first portable drive, or any combination thereof.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the access restriction is applicable to a certain subset of computers on the computer network.
5. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the drive mobility assessment criteria (133) includes a usage history review algorithm that determines a scope of past locations of usage for a given portable drive, an assessment of a type of portable device with which a given portable drive is associated, or any combination thereof.
6. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the drive content sensitivity criteria (134) includes at least one set of criteria for assessing a type of application selected from the group consisting of: criteria for assessing a type of application that is active on a computer with which a given portable drive is interfaced, criteria for assessing a type of application that is installed on a computer with which a given portable drive is interfaced, or any combination thereof.
7. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the drive content sensitivity criteria (134) includes criteria selected from the group consisting of: criteria for assessing a type of computer from which content is written to a given portable drive, criteria for assessing a type of data stored on a given portable drive, criteria for assessing a type of file stored on a computer from which files are copied to a given portable drive, or any combination thereof.
8. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the drive content sensitivity criteria (134) includes criteria for assessing a degree of secrecy of a file stored on a computer from which files are copied to a given portable drive.
9. The system of any preceding claim, wherein the drive security policy determination engine (130) includes a user history assessment engine (136) that is configured to assess a security risk corresponding to a specific user associated with a given portable drive based on user assessment criteria.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the user assessment criteria includes criteria that analyzes security-related history associated with a given user's use of any other portable drives previously used by that user.
11. A machine-implemented method for securing use of a portable drive interfaced with a computer network, the method being carried out autonomously, without human interaction, by a computing platform, and comprising: writing and maintaining a data store containing entries corresponding to a plurality of portable drives initialized for use with the computer network, each entry corresponding to at least one identifiable drive; monitoring events (121) occurring on the computer network involving use of each of the plurality of portable drives; applying predefined security policy determination criteria (132), including: drive mobility assessment criteria (133) including criteria for determining a likelihood of whether a given portable drive will be used outside of the computer network or criteria for determining a likelihood of whether a given portable drive will be used outside of a defined segment of the computer network; and drive content sensitivity criteria (134) indicative of the liability of the portable drive to vulnerabilities of software in a computer system with which the portable drive is interfaced, to determine a drive-specific security policy for each one of the plurality of portable drives; and executing a set of at least one policy enforcement action corresponding to a determined drive-specific security policy in response to detected usage activity for each one of the plurality of portable drives.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one policy enforcement action includes applying an access restriction to only a certain subset of computers on the computer network.
13. The method of claim 11 or claim 12, wherein in applying the predefined security policy determination criteria (132), the drive content sensitivity criteria (134) applied includes criteria for assessing a degree of secrecy of a file stored on a computer from which files are copied to a given portable drive.
14. The method of any of claims 11-13, further comprising:
autonomously assessing a security risk corresponding to a specific user associated with a given portable drive based on user assessment criteria.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the user assessment criteria includes criteria that analyzes security-related history associated with a given user's use of any other portable drives previously used by that user.
</claims>
</document>
