<document>

<filing_date>
2015-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01D4/00,G06F17/18,G06Q20/38,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANDYOPADHYAY, SOMA
PAL, ARPAN
UKIL, ARIJIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52629370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Smart meter Privacy Analyzer
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for detecting sensitivity content in time-series data is disclosed. The method comprises receiving the time-series data from a source. The data is received for one or more instances. The method further comprises detecting the sensitivity content in the time-series data. The sensitivity content indicates presence of an anomaly. The detecting comprises determining a kurtosis value corresponding to the time-series data. The detecting further comprises comparing the kurtosis value with a reference value. The detecting further comprises processing the data using a first filtering means or a second filtering means. The first filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is either of a platykurtic distribution or a mesokurtic distribution. The second filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is a leptokurtic distribution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting sensitivity content in time-series data to minimize false positives and false negative alarm rates, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor (202), the time-series data from a source, wherein the time-series data is received for one or more instances, and wherein an instance of the one or more instances is associated with a value of the time-series data; detecting, by the processor (202), the sensitivity content in the time-series data, wherein the sensitivity content indicates presence of an anomaly, characterized in that, the detecting comprises: determining a kurtosis value corresponding to one of each instance of the one or more instances associated with the value of the time-series data by plotting a data distribution of the time-series data, wherein the value corresponding to each instance is collected and the time-series data is aggregated for the one or more instances, wherein the value of the time-series data includes a plurality of time stamps in one more time cycle, and the value of the time-series data being associated with a particular time interval, the particular time interval represented in a form of the plurality of time stamps maintained for the time series data; comparing the kurtosis value with a reference value to obtain a nature of the data distribution, wherein the data distribution is one of a platykurtic distribution, a mesokurtic distribution, and a leptokurtic distribution; and processing the time-series data using a first filtering means and a second filtering means, wherein the first filtering means is used for the data distribution of the time-series data is one of the platykurtic distribution and the mesokurtic distribution, wherein the first filtering means comprises a Hampel filter and wherein the second filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is the leptokurtic distribution and the time-series data is processed using the first filtering means by calculating a median and a median absolute deviation of the time-series data in order to reduce masking effect.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying a density of the sensitivity content detected, wherein the density indicates presence of the anomaly in at least two successive instances of the one or more instances.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising alerting a user indicating the density identification.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second filtering means comprises a median-based Rosner filter.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the time-series data is processed using the second filtering means utilizing a student-t distribution in order to reduce swamping effect.
6. A system for detecting sensitivity content in time-series data to minimize false positives and false negative alarm rates, the system comprising: a processor (202); a memory (206) coupled to the processor, wherein the processor executes a plurality of modules stored in the memory, and wherein the plurality of modules (208) comprising: a reception module (210) to receive the time-series data from a source, wherein the data is received for one or more instances, and wherein an instance of the one or more instances is associated with a value of the time-series data; a detection module (212) to detect the sensitivity content in the time-series data, wherein the sensitivity content indicates presence of an anomaly, characterized in that wherein the detection further comprising: determining a kurtosis value corresponding to one of each instance of the one or more instances associated with the value of the time-series data by plotting a data distribution of the time-series data, wherein the value corresponding to each instance is collected and the time-series data is aggregated for the one or more instances, wherein the value of the time-series data includes a plurality of time stamps in one more time cycle, and the value of the time-series data being associated with a particular time interval, the particular time interval represented in a form of the plurality of time stamps maintained for the time series data; comparing the kurtosis value with a reference value to obtain a nature of the data distribution, wherein the data distribution is one of a platykurtic distribution, a mesokurtic distribution, and a leptokurtic distribution; and processing the time-series data using a first filtering means and a second filtering means, wherein the first filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is one of the platykurtic distribution and the mesokurtic distribution, wherein the first filtering means comprises a Hampel filter and wherein the second filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is the leptokurtic distribution and wherein the detection module processes the time-series data using the first filtering means by calculating a median and a median absolute deviation of the time-series data in order to reduce masking effect.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the detection module (212) further identifies a density of the sensitivity content, wherein the density indicates presence of the anomaly in at least two successive instances of the one or more instances.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the detection module further alerts a user indicating the density identification.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the second filtering means comprises a median-based Rosner filter.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein detection module processes the time-series data using the second filtering means utilizing a student-t distribution in order to reduce swamping effect.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying a program executable in a computing device for detecting sensitivity content in time-series data to minimize false positives and false negative alarm rates, the program comprising: a program code for receiving the time-series data from a source, wherein the time-series data is received for one or more instances, and wherein an instance of the one or more instances is associated with a value of the time-series data; a program code for detecting the sensitivity content in the time-series data, wherein the sensitivity content indicates presence of an anomaly, wherein the program code for detecting comprises: a program code for determining a kurtosis value corresponding to one of each instance of the one or more instances associated with the value of the time-series data by plotting a data distribution of the time-series data, wherein the value corresponding to each instance is collected and the time-series data is aggregated for the one or more instances, wherein the value of the time-series data includes a plurality of time stamps in one more time cycle, and the value of the time-series data being associated with a particular time interval, the particular time interval represented in a form of the plurality of time stamps maintained for the time series data; a program code for comparing the kurtosis value with a reference value to obtain a nature of the data distribution, wherein the data distribution is one of a platykurtic distribution, a mesokurtic distribution, and a leptokurtic distribution; and a program code for processing the time-series data using a first filtering means and a second filtering means, wherein the first filtering means is used when the data distribution of the time-series data is one of the platykurtic distribution and the mesokurtic distribution, wherein the first filtering means comprises a Hampel filter and wherein the second filtering means is used when data distribution of the time-series data is the leptokurtic distribution and the time-series data is processed using the first filtering means by calculating a median and a median absolute deviation of the time-series data in order to reduce masking effect.
</claims>
</document>
