<document>

<filing_date>
2013-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0476,A61B5/0484,G06F19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
THE SALK INSTITUTE FOR BIOLOGICAL STUDIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MESA, DIEGO
FUNG, RAYNARD
MA, RUI
GIL DA COSTA, RICARDO
KIM, SANGGYUN
PARK, CHEOLSOO
COLEMAN, TODD, PRENTICE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50389044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR SENSORY AND COGNITIVE PROFILING
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, devices, and systems are disclosed for producing cognitive and/or sensory profiles. In one aspect, a method to provide a cognitive or sensory assessment of a subject includes selecting a profile category from among a cognitive performance profile, a sensory performance profile, and a cognitive and sensory performance profile, presenting a sequence of stimuli to a subject, the sequence of stimuli based on the selected profile category, acquiring physiological signals of the subject before, during, and after the presenting the sequence of stimuli to produce physiological data, and processing the physiological data to generate an information set including one or more quantitative values associated with the selected profile category.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system (100) for providing a cognitive or sensory assessment, comprising: a sensor device (130) interfaced to a subject to detect physiological signals exhibited by the subject before, during, and after a presentation of a sequence of stimuli to the subject, the sequence of stimuli based on a cognitive-sensory profile category including a cognitive performance profile, a sensory performance profile, and a cognitive and sensory performance profile; a data processing system in communication with the sensor device (130) and structured to include one or more memory units and one or more processors configured to process the physiological signals as physiological data to generate an information set from the physiological data alone, wherein the information set includes one or more quantitative values associated with the cognitive-sensory profile category; wherein the data processing system includes: a local computer (140) located proximate and in communication with the sensor device (130) to receive the detected physiological signals from the sensor device (130), the local computer (140) configured to conduct initial processing of the detected physiological signals to produce initial physiological signal data, and a remote computer (150) in communication with the local computer (140) via a communication network or link to receive the initial physiological signal data from the local computer (140) and to process the initial physiological signal data to generate the information set including one or more quantitative values associated with the cognitive-sensory profile category; wherein the initial physiological signal data includes a time interval associated with the physiological signals (171, 181, 191), and wherein the remote computer provides a statistical measure of relationship across one or more grouped data sets (173, 183, 193), grouped according to the time interval (172, 182, 192), to generate the one or more quantitative value, wherein the local computer (140) is configured to produce initial physiological signal data as individual data specific to the subject, and the remote computer (150) is configured to process the initial physiological signal data to produce the information set that is individualized to the subject, wherein the information set is generated by the data processing system without requiring the subject's compliance or a behavioral response by the subject to the sequence of stimuli; a stimulus delivery device at a location of the subject and configured to produce the sequence of stimuli that is presented to the subject, wherein the stimuli includes at least one of a visual, auditory, olfactory, tactile, or gustatory stimulating medium; and a brain-machine interface module in communication with the data processing system and the stimulus delivery device configured to produce a modified sequence of stimuli by adaptively modifying the sequence of stimuli during an on-going presentation of the stimuli to the subject, wherein the modified sequence of stimuli is based on data associated with or derived from the generated information set.
2. The system (100) as in claim 1, further comprising:
a stimulus delivery device to produce the sequence of stimuli that is presented to the subject, wherein the stimuli includes at least one of a visual, auditory, olfactory, tactile, or gustatory stimulating medium.
3. The system (100) as in claim 2, wherein the stimulus delivery device includes a display screen to generate a sequence of images, or a speaker to generate a sequence of sounds, or both the display screen and the speaker.
4. The system (100) as in claim 2, wherein the stimulus delivery device includes an actuator to generate a sequence of at least one of olfactory, tactile, or gustatory stimuli.
5. The system (100) as in claim 2, wherein the stimulus delivery device is in communication with the data processing system, in which the data processing system is configured to produce a machine procedure based on the generated information set, and wherein the machine procedure produced by the data processing unit causes the stimulus delivery device to modify the sequence of stimuli for a next presentation to the subject.
6. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the data processing system is configured to produce a machine procedure based on the generated information set, and wherein the machine procedure actuates another device or system to perform a function derived from information contained within the generated information set.
7. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the one or more quantitative values includes a quantitative score depicting a level of one or both of cognitive and sensory performance based on at least one of the subject's attention, memory, learning ability, confabulation characteristics, pattern integration ability, semantic integration ability, target detection ability, emotional valence, preference, or awareness, and wherein the quantitative score depicts the level at a particular time.
8. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the sensor device (130) includes a flexible substrate, sensor electrodes on the flexible substrate, and a transmitter unit in electrical communication with the electrodes and on the flexible substrate, wherein the sensor device (130) is configured as one or more wearable patches worn on the subject's scalp to record electroencephalogram (EEG) signals and transmit the recorded EEG signals to at least one of the data processing unit or a remote computer system.
9. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the sensor device (130) includes electrodes attachable to the subject to receive electrical signals from the subject.
10. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the sensor device (130) includes an imaging device that captures images of the subject indicating a motion or movement of the subject.
11. The system (100) as in claim 10, wherein the imaging device captures eye movement of the subject.
12. The system (100) as in claim 1, wherein the remote computer (150) is configured to access physiological signal data of other subjects in one or more groups of subjects and use the physiological signal data of other subjects in processing of the initial physiological signal data to produce the information set that is individualized to the subject.
</claims>
</document>
