<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/418,G05B19/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENGELBART, ROGER W.
FONDA, JAMES W.
HALBRITTER, ALLEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54325300
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INSPECTING A COMPOSITE PART DURING MANUFACTURE
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer-readable storage medium are provided to facilitate inspection of a composite part during manufacture. In the context of a system, a system for inspecting a composite part during manufacture is provided that includes an inspection system configured to detect an in-process anomaly with respect to a ply of the composite part during placement of the ply. The system also includes a computing system configured to determine part location coordinates of the in-process anomaly detected by the inspection system with respect to the ply of the composite part. The computing system is also configured to map the in-process anomaly to a digital part model based upon the part location coordinates. The system additionally includes a display, responsive to the computing system, configured to present a representation of the digital part model including an indication of the in-process anomaly relative thereto.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for inspecting a composite part during manufacture, the method comprising the steps of: detecting (12) an in-process anomaly (48) with respect to a ply (30) of the composite part during placement of the ply; determining (14) part location coordinates of the in-process anomaly (48) with respect to the ply (30) of the composite part; mapping (16) the in-process anomaly (48) to a digital part model (70) based upon the part location coordinates; and displaying (18) a representation of the digital part model (70) including an indication of the in-process anomaly (72) relative thereto; wherein the step of determining (14) the part location coordinates comprises the step of: obtaining machine axis coordinates of the in-process anomaly (48), said machine axis coordinates defining the coordinates of an automated tow placement system or an automated tape placement system at a time at which that portion of the ply that includes the in-process anomaly that has been detected was placed, wherein the machine axis coordinates are obtained from a machine controller (54) or a process parameter monitoring system (54); and wherein the step of determining the part location coordinates further comprises the step of converting the machine axis coordinates to the part location coordinates.
2. A method according to Claim 1 wherein the step of detecting the in-process anomaly (48) comprises a step of scanning a surface of the ply (30) of the composite part during placement of the ply (30) with a vision based inspection system.
3. A method according to Claim 1 or 2 wherein the step of mapping (16) the in-process anomaly (48) to the digital part model comprises a step of providing the part location coordinates for the in-process anomaly (48) to three-dimensional visualization software (64) that overlays the representation of the in-process anomaly (48) onto the digital part model (70).
4. A method according to any of Claims 1 to 3 wherein the step of detecting (12) the in-process anomaly (48) comprises a step of determining a type of in-process anomaly (48), and wherein the step of displaying (18) the representation of the digital part model comprises a step of assigning different visual indications to different types of in-process anomalies.
5. A method according to any of Claims 1 to 4 wherein the step of displaying (18) the representation of the digital part model (70) further comprises a step of overlaying (20) post-cure quality data onto the digital part model (70) concurrent with the indications of the in-process anomalies (72).
6. A method according to any of Claims 1 to 5 wherein the step of displaying (18) the representation of the digital part model (70) further comprises a step of overlaying (22) in-process sensor measurement locations onto the digital part model (70) concurrent with the indications of the in-process anomalies (72).
7. A system for inspecting a composite part during manufacture, the system comprising: an inspection system (52) configured to detect an in-process anomaly (48) with respect to a ply (30) of the composite part during placement of the ply (30); a computing system (50) configured to determine part location coordinates of the in-process anomaly (48) detected by the inspection system (52) with respect to the ply (30) of the composite part, wherein the computing system is configured to determine the part location coordinates by obtaining machine axis coordinates of the in-process anomaly (48), said machine axis coordinates defining the coordinates of an automated tow placement system or an automated tape placement system at a time at which that portion of the ply that includes the in-process anomaly that has been detected was placed, wherein the machine axis coordinates are obtained from a machine controller (54) or a process parameter monitoring system (54); and wherein the computing system is further configured to determine the part location coordinates by converting the machine axis coordinates to the part location coordinates, wherein the computing system (50) is also configured to map the in-process anomaly (48) to a digital part model (70) based upon the part location coordinates; and a display (56), responsive to the computing system (50), configured to present a representation of the digital part model (70) including an indication of the in-process anomaly (48) relative thereto.
8. A system according to Claim 7 wherein the inspection system (52) comprises a vision based inspection system configured to scan a surface of the ply (30) of the composite part during placement of the ply (30).
9. A system according to any of Claims 7 to 8 wherein the computing system (50) is configured to map the in-process anomaly (48) to the digital part model (70) by providing the part location coordinates for the in-process anomaly (48) to three-dimensional visualization software (64) that overlays the representation of the in-process anomaly (48) onto the digital part model (70).
10. A system according to any of Claims 7 to 9 wherein the computing system (50) is further configured to determine a type of in-process anomaly (48), and wherein the display (56) is further configured to assigning different visual indications to different types of in-process anomalies (48).
11. A system according to any of Claims 7 to 10 wherein the display (56) is further configured to overlay post-cure quality data onto the digital part model (70) concurrent with the indications of the in-process anomalies (72).
12. A system according to any of Claims 7 to 11 wherein the display (56) is further configured to overlay in-process sensor measurement locations onto the digital part model (70) concurrent with the indications of the in-process anomalies (72).
</claims>
</document>
