<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F13/00,A61F13/02,A61M1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAUL HARTMANN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEYRLE, KARINA
CROIZAT, PIERRE
DAWBER, CHRISTINE
HSIEH MARK
KLUSMANN, JOHANNA
STEIN, JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55027583
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND DEVICES FOR CONTROLLING NEGATIVE PRESSURE WOUND THERAPY
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a method of determining a blockage condition in a negative pressure wound therapy system during a negative pressure wound therapy. Said method includes generating a negative pressure at a wound site by means of an electrical pump, recording the negative pressure, venting the fluid path of the negative pressure wound therapy system by opening a relief valve, determining and recording a negative pressure drop during the ventilation step, and generating a blockage signal in a controller of the negative pressure wound therapy system. The invention further relates to another method of determining a blockage condition in a negative pressure wound therapy system during a negative pressure wound therapy. Said further method includes generating a negative pressure at a wound site by means of an electrical pump, recording the negative pressure, venting the fluid path of the negative pressure wound therapy system by opening a relief valve, closing the relief valve, determining and recording a negative pressure gradient occurring during the entire ventilation step, reactivating the electrical pump, determining and recording a number of pump turns, which are required to reestablish the negative pressure, and generating a first or a second blockage detection data set. The methods further includes executing a classification algorithm which allows to discriminate an unblocked condition of the negative pressure wound therapy system from a blocked condition of the negative pressure wound therapy system using the generated data sets. The invention further relates to a negative pressure wound therapy system adapted to execute said methods of determining a blockage condition a negative pressure wound therapy system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A negative pressure wound therapy system comprising - an electrical pump (5) for generating negative pressure, - optionally a tachometer for determining a pump speed associated with the electrical pump (5), - a pressure sensor (17) for determining negative pressure values, - a controller (18) for controlling activity of the electrical pump (5), - an input means (22) for adjusting settings on the negative pressure wound therapy system, said input means (22) being operable by the user of the negative pressure wound therapy system, - a relief valve (26) for venting the negative pressure wound therapy system, wherein the relief valve (26) can be controlled by the controller (18), - a first fluid path (6, 14, 15) fluidly connectable to a wound site (2) and to the electrical pump (5) such that the wound site (2) can be subjected to a negative pressure, wherein the pressure sensor (17) is located in the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) between the wound site (2) and the electrical pump (5), - a second fluid path (24, 25) fluidly connectable to the wound site (2) and the relief valve (26), wherein the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) and the second fluid path (24, 25) are in fluid communication at the wound site (2), wherein the controller (18) of the negative pressure wound therapy system is adapted to execute a method of determining a blockage condition in the negative pressure wound therapy system during a negative pressure wound therapy, comprising the steps of i. generating a negative pressure at the wound site (2) by means of the electrical pump (5), ii. recording the negative pressure, iii. venting the fluid path (6, 14, 15, 24, 25) of the negative pressure wound therapy system by opening the relief valve (26), wherein during the ventilation the electrical pump (5) is stopped, iv. determining and recording a negative pressure drop during the ventilation step, wherein the negative pressure drop is determined for a predetermined period of time, v. optionally closing the relief valve (26) when the predetermined period of time has elapsed, wherein closing the relief valve (26) finalizes the ventilation step, vi. generating a blockage signal in the controller (18) of the negative pressure wound therapy system if the negative pressure drop observed during the ventilation step is less than a predetermined negative pressure drop.
2. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to claim 1, characterised in that the predetermined period of time is a value selected from the range of 20 seconds to 120 seconds, wherein the range is preferably 30 seconds to 60 seconds and wherein the value of the predetermined period of time is most preferably 45 seconds.
3. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to claim 1 or 2, characterised in that the blockage signal is generated in the controller (18) if the negative pressure drop observed during the ventilation step is less than the predetermined negative pressure drop having a value selected from the range of 10 % to 30 % compared to the negative pressure of step ii., wherein the predetermined negative pressure drop preferably has a value of 20 % compared to the negative pressure of step ii.
4. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the controller (18) is adapted to execute said method in an active state of the negative pressure wound therapy system continuously or intermittently.
5. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the controller (18) is adapted to execute said method every 1 to 10 minutes, in particular every 5 minutes, during the negative pressure wound therapy.
6. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the controller (18) is adapted to immediately communicate the blockage signal to the user of the negative pressure wound therapy system, preferably by means of an acoustic and/or visual alarm.
7. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to any one of the claims 1 to 5, characterised in that the controller (18) is adapted to not immediately communicate the blockage signal to the user, but said method is repeated, preferably after 1 to 10 minutes, in particular after 2 minutes, and only if the repetition confirms the blocked condition an alarm is generated.
8. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to any one of the preceding claims, characterised in that the negative pressure wound therapy system further comprises a canister (3) for collecting liquid from the wound site (2), wherein the canister (3) is located in the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) between the wound site (2) and the electrical pump (5) and wherein the pressure sensor (17) is located in the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) between the canister (3) and the electrical pump (5).
9. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to claim 8, characterised in that the negative pressure wound therapy system further comprises a means for preventing liquid from entering the electrical pump (7), preferably a moisture sensitive filter or a liquid impermeable membrane, wherein the means for preventing liquid from entering the electrical pump (7) is located in the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) between the canister (3) and the pressure sensor (17).
10. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to claim 9, characterised in that - the electrical pump (5), - optionally the tachometer, - the pressure sensor (17), - the controller (18), - the input means (22), and - the relief valve (26) of the negative pressure wound therapy system are included in a portable negative pressure device (1), and
wherein the canister (3) includes the means for preventing liquid from entering the electrical pump (7) and wherein the canister (3) is removably attachable to the negative pressure device (1).
11. A negative pressure wound therapy system according to claim 10, characterised in that the portable negative pressure device (1) including the canister (3) is fluidly connectable to the wound site (2) by means of a suction conduit (6) and a venting conduit (24), wherein the suction conduit constitutes a part of the first fluid path (6, 14, 15) and the venting conduit constitutes a part of the second fluid path (24, 25).
</claims>
</document>
