<document>

<filing_date>
2015-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALINGA, MARTIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
SALINGA, MARTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52596941
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DEVICE FOR THE EVALUATION OF A TIME-INTERVAL BETWEEN TWO EXCITATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to an apparatus for analyzing a time interval between two excitations, comprising at least one excitable material which can be transformed at least in part into an excited state by an excitation, the excitability of the material changing over time in said excited state. The invention further relates to a method for analyzing a time interval between two excitations, the use of an apparatus according to the invention, and an artificial neural network comprising at least one apparatus according to the invention.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method of evaluating a time-interval between two excitations, wherein - a first excitation is applied to an excitable semiconductor material for changing this material to an excited amorphous state, - the excitability of the excitable semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state decreases with time, resulting in a voltage threshold value rising with time which marks the transition between low conductivity at low voltages and high conductivity at high voltages, - a second excitation is applied to the excitable semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state, the second excitation being selected such that a temporary change of the excitable semiconductor material from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity only takes place if a value for the time-interval between the first and the second excitation is not exceeded, - a temporary change from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity in dependence on alteration of excitability of the excitable semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state is triggered by the second excitation, - where evaluation of the time-interval between two excitations takes place due to the fact that the probability of triggering a change with a second excitation decreases over time in accordance with the electrical excitability decreasing over time.
2. Method of evaluating a time-interval between two excitations according to Claim 1,
wherein the resistance of a memristive element which is connected to a device according to the invention and whose access is controlled by this device, is persistently reduced if the time-interval between two excitations or two signals, respectively, is short enough so that a second excitation or a second signal, respectively, changes the excited amorphous semiconductor material, still temporarily, from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity, or alternatively, the resistance of a memristive element which is connected to a device according to the invention and whose access is controlled by this device, is persistently increased if the time-interval between two excitations or two signals, respectively, is too long for a second excitation or a second signal, respectively, to change the excited amorphous semiconductor material, still temporarily, from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity.
3. Method of evaluating a time-interval between two signals according to Claim 1,
wherein
the resistance of a phase change material as an electrically excitable semiconductor material used in a device according to the invention is persistently reduced if the time-interval between two excitations or two signals, respectively, is short enough so that a second excitation or a second signal, respectively, changes the excited amorphous semiconductor material, still temporarily, from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity, or alternatively, the resistance of a phase change material as an electrically excitable semiconductor material used in a device according to the invention is pesistently increased if the time-interval between two excitations or two signals, respectively, is too long for a second excitation or a second signal, respectively, to change the excited amorphous semiconductor material, still temporarily, from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity.
4. Method of evaluating a time-interval between two signals according to one of more of Claims 1-3,
wherein
an excitation generator or a signal generator, respectively, selects or sets at least one excitation or at least one signal, respectively, in a suitable manner, or alternatively, an increase or reduction in temperature is used to influence the change in excitability of the excitable semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state.
5. Use of a device for the method for the evaluation of a time-interval between two excitations according to one of Claims 1 through 4,
the device comprising an electrically excitable semiconductor material brought into a excited amorphous state by a first signal; the electrical excitability of the semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state changing with time and the semiconductor material in this excited amorphous state being caused to change from a state with lower electrical conductivity to a state with higher electrical conductivity by a second signal; the change furthermore occurring in dependence of the change of excitability of the semiconductor material in the excited amorphous state.
6. Use of the device according to Claim 5,
where
the electrically excitable semiconductor material comprises at least one element of groups III and/or IV A and/or V A and/or VI A of the periodic table and/or at least one chalcogenide and/or one modified chalcogenide.
7. Use of the device according to Claim 5 or 6,
the electrically excitable semiconductor material being a phase change material excitable for instance by an electrical voltage, the phase change material in the excited amorphous state being excitable by a voltage above a voltage threshold value, the voltage threshold value of the phase change material in the excited amorphous state, and thus the electrical excitability of this material, changing over time.
8. Use of the device according to one or more of Claims 5 through 7,
the device comprising at least one heating element and/or cooling element for changing excitability of the employed excitable material in dependence on the temperature, and/or at least one excitation generator or signal generator, respectively.
9. Use of the device according to one or more of Claims 5 through 8,
at least one device according to one of Claims 5 through 8 being provided or used, respectively, in an artificial neural network and/or in an artificial synapse and/or as part of an artificial synapse and/or as an artificial synapse.
10. Use of the device according to Claim 9, at least one device according to one of Claims 5 through 9 being employed for changing the electrical resistance at specific points of a neural network as an artificial synapse in dependence of the time-interval between two signals applied/arriving at the device, a change in resistance occurring by a change in resistance of a memristive element connected to the device according to the invention which controls access to this memristive element.
11. Use of the device according to Claim 9,
the device being employed for changing the electrical resistance at specific points of a neural network, especially for example as an artificial synapse, in dependence of the time-interval between two signals applied/arriving at the device, a change in resistance occurring by a change in resistance of the excitable semiconductor material or phase change material, respectively, used in a device according to the invention.
12. Artificial neural network having a plurality of interconnected artificial neurons, which is operated by means of a device according to one of Claims 9 through 11.
13. Artificial neural network having a plurality of interconnected artificial neurons according to Claim 12, comprising at least one heating and/or cooling element for changing excitability of the employed excitable material in dependence on the temperature, and/or at least one excitation generator or signal generator, respectively.
</claims>
</document>
