<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/717,H04L12/721
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOLEY, BIKASH
MAHADEVAN, PRIYA
SHAIKH, ANEES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56292923
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR INFERRING NETWORK TOPOLOGY AND PATH METRICS IN WIDE AREA NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Described are methods and system for network analysis. A network analyzer for a first network is configured to receive network assessment information from a network metric monitors situated in third-party networks, the network assessment information indicating values for characteristics of one or more network paths from the respective network metric monitor to a node in a second network. The network analyzer aggregates the received network assessment information and identifies, from the aggregated network assessment information, a route from the first network to the node in the second network. The identified route is then selected from among a plurality of potential routes from the first network to the node in the second network and used in setting a routing policy for data flows from the first network through the node in the second network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a network analyzer, a network controller and network metric monitors, wherein the plurality of network metric monitors are configured to: obtain measurements for one or more network metrics, and transmit network assessment information based on the obtained measurements to the network analyzer in a first network, the network assessment information indicating values for characteristics of one or more network paths from the respective network metric monitor to a node in a second network, wherein at least one of the plurality of network metric monitors is situated in a network external to the first network, and wherein at least one network metric monitor is situated in a network node and is configured to obtain measurements based on at least one data flow using a connection-oriented transport-layer protocol and traversing through, or originating at, the network node; the network analyzer is configured to: receive the network assessment information from the plurality of network metric monitors, and aggregate the received network assessment information; and the network controller for the first network is configured to: select, based on the aggregated information, a route from among a plurality of potential routes from the first network to the node in the second network that satisfies a set of criteria, and set routing policy for data flows from the first network through the node in the second network using the selected route.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the network controller is further configured to cause one or more network devices to route data flows between a local node in the first network and a client node, through the node in the second network, using the selected route.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the values for characteristics of a path are composite values representing a collective characteristic for the path as a whole.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the received network assessment information includes information identifying an autonomous system and the network analyzer is configured to aggregate the received network assessment information based on the identified autonomous system.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the network analyzer is configured to calculate a value for a network characteristic of an intermediary network between the first network and the second network, the calculated value being descriptive of all routes passing from an entry to the intermediary network to an egress from the intermediary network; wherein the intermediary network is preferably a distinct autonomous system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the network analyzer is configured to compare aggregated values for characteristics of each of a plurality of potential routes and to select the route based on one or more aggregated values for characteristics of the selected route; or wherein the network analyzer is a component of the network controller.
7. A method comprising: receiving, by a network analyzer comprising at least one processor in a first network, network assessment information from a plurality of network metric monitors, the network assessment information indicating values for characteristics of one or more network paths from the respective network metric monitor to a node in a second network, wherein at least one network metric monitor is situated in a network external to the first network, and wherein at least one network metric monitor is situated in a network node and is configured to obtain measurements based on at least one data flow using a connection-oriented transport-layer protocol and traversing through, or originating at, the network node; aggregating, by the network analyzer, the received network assessment information; selecting, based on the aggregated information, a route from among a plurality of potential routes from the first network to the node in the second network that satisfies a set of criteria; and setting a routing policy for data flows from the first network through the node in the second network using the selected route.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising causing one or more network devices to route data flows between a local node in the first network and a client node, through the node in the second network, using the selected route.
9. The method of claim 7, comprising aggregating the received network assessment information based on a source network of the received network assessment information.
10. The method of claim 7, comprising calculating a value for a network characteristic of an intermediary network between the first network and the second network, the calculated value being descriptive of all routes passing from an entry to the intermediary network to an egress from the intermediary network.
11. The method of claim 7, comprising comparing aggregated values for characteristics of each of a plurality of potential routes and to select the route based on one or more aggregated values for characteristics of the selected route.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a computer processor, cause the computer processor to: receive network assessment information from a plurality of network metric monitors, wherein at least one network metric monitor is situated in a network external to a first network, the network assessment information indicating values for characteristics of one or more network paths from the respective network metric monitor to a node in a second network, and wherein at least one network metric monitor is situated in a network node and is configured to obtain measurements based on at least one data flow using a connection-oriented transport-layer protocol and traversing through, or originating at, the network node; aggregate the received network assessment information; select, based on the aggregated information, a route from among a plurality of potential routes from the first network to the node in the second network that satisfies a set of criteria; and set a routing policy for data flows from the first network through the node in the second network using the selected route.
13. The medium of claim 12, the instructions further causing one or more network devices in the first network to route data flows between a local node in the first network and a client node, through the node in the second network, using the selected route.
14. The medium of claim 12, the instructions further causing the processor to calculate a value for a network characteristic of an intermediary network between the first network and the second network, the calculated value being descriptive of all routes passing from an entry to the intermediary network to an egress from the intermediary network.
15. The medium of claim 12, the instructions further causing the processor to compare aggregated values for characteristics of each of a plurality of potential routes and to select the route based on one or more aggregated values for characteristics of the selected route.
</claims>
</document>
