<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOLBY LABORATORIES LICENSING CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARTWRIGHT, RICHARD J.
MUESCH, Hannes
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55451564
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPTIMIZED VIRTUAL SCENE LAYOUT FOR SPATIAL MEETING PLAYBACK
</title>

<abstract>
Various disclosed implementations involve processing and/or playback of a recording of a conference involving a plurality of conference participants. Some implementations involve receiving or determining conversational dynamics data. One or more variables of a cost function may be based, at least in part, on the conversational dynamics data. The cost function may be a spatial optimization cost function of a vector describing a virtual conference participant position for each of the conference participants in a virtual acoustic space. The virtual acoustic space may be determined relative to a listener's head. The virtual conference participant positions may be assigned according to a solution of the cost function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing audio data, the method comprising: receiving audio data (7) involving a plurality of conference participants, the audio data including at least one of: (a) audio data from multiple endpoints (1, 715a-715d) or (b) audio data from a single endpoint corresponding to multiple conference participants and including spatial information for each conference participant of the multiple conference participants; analyzing the audio data to determine conversational dynamics data; and assigning virtual conference participant positions for each of the conference participants in a virtual acoustic space; CHARACTERIZED IN THAT: the audio data corresponds to a recording of a conference, and in the case of (a) the audio data for each of the multiple endpoints has been recorded separately; and the conversational dynamics data includes data indicating the frequency or duration of conference participant speech the method further comprises: applying the conversational dynamics data as one or more variables of a spatial optimization cost function of a vector describing the virtual conference participant position for each of the conference participants in the virtual acoustic space; and applying an optimization technique to the spatial optimization cost function to determine a locally optimal solution; wherein the assigning of the virtual conference participant positions in the virtual acoustic space is based, at least in part, on the locally optimal solution.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the conference is a teleconference.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the conversational dynamics data include data indicating instances of conference participant doubletalk during which at least two conference participants are speaking simultaneously.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the conversational dynamics data include data indicating instances of conference participant conversations.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants who are involved in conference participant doubletalk at virtual conference participant positions that are on, or within a predetermined angular distance from, a cone of confusion defined relative to the position of the virtual listener's head, circular conical slices through the cone of confusion having identical inter-aural time differences.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants who are involved in a conference participant conversation with one another at virtual conference participant positions that are on, or within a predetermined angular distance from, a cone of confusion defined relative to the position of the virtual listener's head, circular conical slices through the cone of confusion having identical inter-aural time differences.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, wherein analyzing the audio data also involves determining which conference participants, if any, have perceptually similar voices.
8. The method of claims 7, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants with perceptually similar voices at virtual conference participant positions that are on, or within a predetermined angular distance from, a cone of confusion defined relative to the position of the virtual listener's head, circular conical slices through the cone of confusion having identical inter-aural time differences.
9. The method of any one of claims 1-8, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants who speak frequently at virtual conference participant positions that are beside, behind, above, or below the position of the virtual listener's head.
10. The method of any one of claims 1-9, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants who speak frequently at virtual conference participant positions that are farther from the position of the virtual listener's head than the virtual conference participant positions of conference participants who speak less frequently.
11. The method of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the virtual acoustic space is determined relative to a position of a virtual listener's head in the virtual acoustic space and wherein the spatial optimization cost function applies a penalty for placing conference participants who speak infrequently at virtual conference participant positions that are not beside, behind, above or below the position of the virtual listener's head.
12. The method of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the optimization technique involves at least one technique selected from a group of optimization techniques consisting of a gradient descent technique, conjugate gradient technique, Newton's method, the Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno algorithm; a genetic algorithm, an algorithm for simulated annealing, an ant colony optimization method or a Monte Carlo method.
13. The method of any one of claims 1-12, wherein assigning a virtual conference participant position involves selecting a virtual conference participant position from a set of predetermined virtual conference participant positions.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-13, wherein the audio data includes output of a voice activity detection process.
15. The method of any one of claims 1-14, wherein analyzing the audio data involves identifying speech corresponding to individual conference participants.
16. A non-transitory medium having software stored thereon, the software including instructions for processing audio data by controlling at least one device to carry out the method of any of claims 1 to 15.
17. An apparatus (10, 200) for carrying out the method of any of claims 1 to 15, the apparatus comprising: an interface system (105); and a control system (110, 306, 307, 330, 406, 510, 525) configured to receive the audio data via the interface system and to carry out the method.
</claims>
</document>
