<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S1/02,G01S1/04,G01S5/02,H02J50/20,H02J50/40,H02J50/60,H02J50/90,H02J7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OSSIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZEINE, HATEM IBRAHIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57072902
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TECHNIQUES FOR IMAGING WIRELESS POWER DELIVERY ENVIRONMENTS AND TRACKING OBJECTS THEREIN
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described herein for imaging static or semi-static objects in a wireless power delivery environment (500) and tracking non-static objects contained therein. More specifically, embodiments of the present disclosure describe techniques for determining the relative locations and movement of non-static objects in a wireless power delivery environment (735). Additionally, the techniques describe methods and system for generation of motion-based maps such as heat (or dwell maps) (100) and flow maps (1300).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of tracking objects in a wireless power delivery environment in which a wireless power delivery system and multiple power receiver clients are located, the method comprising: Receiving (810), by multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas of the wireless power delivery system, sequential beacon signals transmitted by the multiple power receiver clients respectively in the wireless power delivery environment; measuring, by the wireless power delivery system, a phase of each received beacon signal at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas; generating (812), by the wireless power delivery system, a phase pattern for each received beacon signal,
wherein the phase pattern includes the measured phase of the received beacon signal at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas; comparing (814) the phase pattern to an expected phase pattern for each received beacon signal to identify phase differences,
wherein the expected phase pattern includes an expected phase at which the beacon signal is expected to be received at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas in the absence of non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; processing (816) the phase differences to identify one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment, wherein the non-static objects do not transmit beacon signals to the wireless power delivery system; tracking (818) movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment based on a three-dimensional image of the wireless power delivery environment and the phase differences, wherein the three-dimensional image identifies shapes and relative locations of static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; aggregating (820) the movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; and generating (822) a motion-based map indicating the aggregated movement of the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment, wherein the static objects are objects that do not move for a movement threshold, and the non-static objects are objects that exceed the movement threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement data is aggregated over a specified time interval.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating (822) the motion-based map further comprises: processing the aggregated movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects to identify one or more dwell points within the wireless power delivery environment,
wherein the dwell point indicates stagnation in particular area of the wireless power delivery environment for a corresponding dwell time; and identifying the dwell points on the three-dimensional image of the wireless power delivery environment.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the dwell points indicate the corresponding dwell time on the three-dimensional image of the wireless environment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein colors or shading are used to indicate the corresponding dwell time on the motion-based map.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating (822) the motion-based map further comprises: processing the aggregated movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects to identify one or more motion vectors within the wireless power delivery environment,
wherein the motion vectors indicate a direction of motion of the one or more non-static objects; identifying the motion vectors on the three-dimensional image of the wireless power delivery environment.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the three-dimensional image of the wireless power delivery environment and the expected phase pattern for each received beacon signal during a learning phase.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating (812) the phase pattern further comprises: measuring the magnitude of each of the received beacons at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the shape and relative locations of the static and non-static objects in the wireless power delivery environment can be determined with wavelength level accuracy.
10. The method of claim 1,wherein wireless power is transmitted to the power receiver clients by: generating an inverse phase pattern for each received beacon signal,
wherein the inverse phase pattern reverses the measured phases of the beacon signals transmitted by an associated power receiver client; sequentially transmitting power signals to the multiple power receiver clients with the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas configured with the respective inverse phase pattern for the associated power receiver client.
11. A wireless power delivery system for wirelessly delivering power to multiple power receiver clients and tracking movement of objects in a wireless power delivery environment in which the wireless power delivery system and the multiple power receiver clients are located, the system comprising: multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas, each antenna configured to receive (810) sequential beacon signals from the multiple power receiver clients within the wireless power delivery environment; control circuitry operatively coupled to the one or more adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas, the control circuitry configured to: measure a phase of each beacon signal at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas; generate (812) a phase pattern associated with each beacon signal, wherein the phase pattern includes the measured phase of the received beacon signal at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas; compare (814) the phase pattern to an expected phase pattern for each beacon signal to identify phase differences, wherein the expected phase pattern includes an expected phase at which the beacon signal is expected to be received at each of the multiple adaptively-phased radio frequency antennas in the absence of non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; process (816) the phase differences to identify one or more non-static, non-beaconing, objects within the wireless power delivery environment, wherein the non-static objects do not transmit beacon signals to the wireless power delivery system; track (818) movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment based on a three-dimensional image of the wireless power delivery environment and the phase differences, wherein the three-dimensional image identifies shapes and relative locations of static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; aggregate (820) the movement data associated with the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment; and generate (822) a motion-based map indicating the aggregated movement of the one or more non-static objects within the wireless power delivery environment, wherein the static objects are objects that do not move for a movement threshold, and the non-static objects are objects that exceed the movement threshold.
12. The wireless power delivery system of claim 11, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to perform a method according to one of claims 2 to 10.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, which when executed by one or more processors of the wireless power delivery system of claim 11, cause the wireless power delivery system to perform a method according to one of claims 1 to 10.
</claims>
</document>
