<document>

<filing_date>
2004-12-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2003-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/68,C12Q1/6886
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EPIGENOMICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMAMURA, SU
DEVOS, THEO
MOROTTI, ANDREW M.
DISTLER, JÜRGEN
DEKKER, SHARON
DAY, KEVIN
COTTRELL, SUSAN
OCAMPO, YREKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
34658016
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND NUCLEIC ACIDS FOR THE ANALYSIS OF GENE EXPRESSION ASSOCIATED WITH THE DEVELOPMENT OF PROSTATE CELL PROLIFERATIVE DISORDERS
</title>

<abstract>
The following application provides methods and nucleic acids for the detection of and/or differentiation between prostate cell proliferative disorders. This is achieved by the analysis of the expression status of a panel of genes, or subsets thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting prostate cancer and/or for distinguishing between or among prostate cell proliferative disorders in a subject, comprising: a) contacting genomic DNA derived from a biological sample that has been obtained from the subject, or a fragment thereof, with one reagent or a plurality of reagents for distinguishing between methylated and non methylated CpG dinucleotide sequences within at least one target sequence of the genomic DNA, or fragment thereof, wherein the target sequence comprises, or hybridizes under stringent conditions to, at least 16 contiguous nucleotides of the sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 31 or a complement thereof, said contiguous nucleotides comprising at least one CpG dinucleotide sequence; and b) determining, based at least in part on said distinguishing, the methylation state of at least one target CpG dinucleotide sequence, or an average, or a value reflecting an average methylation state of a plurality of target CpG dinucleotide sequences, wherein the biological sample is selected from the group consisting of biopsy and bodily fluids.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein distinguishing between methylated and non methylated CpG dinucleotide sequences within the target sequence comprises converting unmethylated cytosine bases within the target sequence to uracil or to another base that is detectably dissimilar to cytosine in terms of hybridization properties.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein distinguishing between methylated and non methylated CpG dinucleotide sequences within the target sequence comprises use of at least one nucleic acid molecule or peptide nucleic acid (PNA) molecule comprising, in each case a contiguous sequence at least 9 nucleotides in length that is complementary to, or hybridizes under moderately stringent or stringent conditions to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 120, 121 and complements thereof, preferably wherein the contiguous sequence comprises at least one CpG, TpG or CpA dinucleotide sequence.
4. The method of claim 3, comprising use of at least two such nucleic acid molecules, or peptide nucleic acid (PNA) molecules as primer oligonucleotides for the amplification of a sequences selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 120, 121 and sequences complementary thereto, and regions thereof that comprise, or hybridize under stringent conditions to the primers.
5. A method for detecting prostate cancer and/or for distinguishing between or among prostate cell proliferative disorders in a subject, comprising: a. extracting or otherwise isolating genomic DNA from a biological sample that has been obtained from a subject and comprises genomic DNA of the subject; b. treating the genomic DNA of a), or a fragment thereof, with one or more reagents to convert cytosine bases that are unmethylated in the 5-position thereof to uracil or to another base that is detectably dissimilar to cytosine in terms of hybridization properties; c. contacting the treated genomic DNA, or the treated fragment thereof, with an amplification enzyme and at least two primers comprising, in each case a contiguous sequence of at least 9 nucleotides that is complementary to, or hybridizes under moderately stringent or stringent conditions to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 120, 121 and complements thereof, wherein the treated genomic DNA or the fragment thereof is either amplified to produce at least one amplificate, or is not amplified; and d. determining, based on a presence or absence of, or on a property of said amplificate, the methylation state of at least one CpG dinucleotide of a sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 31, or an average, or a value reflecting an average methylation state of a plurality of CpG dinucleotides of a sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 31, whereby at least one of detecting, or detecting and distinguishing between prostate cell proliferative disorders is, at least in part, afforded.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein amplifying comprises use of at least one method selected from the group consisting of use of a heat-resistant DNA polymerase as the amplification enzyme; use of a polymerase lacking 5'-3'exonuclease activity; use of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR); generation of an amplificate nucleic acid molecule carrying a detectable labels; and combinations thereof.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein at least one such hybridizing nucleic acid molecule or peptide nucleic acid molecule is bound to a solid phase, preferably wherein a plurality of such hybridizing nucleic acid molecules or peptide nucleic acid molecules are bound to a solid phase in the form of a nucleic acid or peptide nucleic acid array selected from the array group consisting of linear or substantially so, hexagonal or substantially so, rectangular or substantially so, and combinations thereof, and wherein the method preferably further comprises extending at least one such hybridized nucleic acid molecule by at least one nucleotide base.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein determining in d. comprises sequencing of the amplificate or contacting in c. comprises use of methylation-specific primers.
9. A set of oligomers comprising at least two oligonucleotides each comprising a sequence of at least 15 contiguous nucleotides that is complementary or hybridizes under stringent conditions to a DNA sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 120, 121, 238, 239 and complements thereof, wherein the at least two oligonucleotides are suitable for analysis of a cytosine methylation pattern in the genomic sequence according to SEQ ID NO: 31, and wherein the set is preferably selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 364 and 365, SEQ ID NO: 976-978, and SEQ ID NO: 1011-1013.
10. Use of a nucleic acid molecule that hybridizes under stringent conditions to all or an at least 9 nucleotide long portion of a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NO: 120, 121, 238, 239 and complements thereof, for detection of and/or for differentiation between prostate cell proliferative disorders.
11. Use of a kit comprising: at least one of a bisulfite reagent, or a methylation-sensitive restriction enzyme; and at least one nucleic acid molecule or peptide nucleic acid molecule comprising, in each case a contiguous sequence of at least 9 nucleotides that is complementary to, or hybridizes under stringent conditions to a sequence selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID NOs: 120, 121 and complements thereof, for detecting or for distinguishing between or among prostate cell proliferative disorders of a subject.
12. The use of claim 11, wherein the kit further comprises standard reagents for performing a methylation assay selected from the group consisting of MS-SNuPE, MSP, MethyLight, HeavyMethyl, nucleic acid sequencing, and combinations thereof.
13. A method for detecting prostate cancer and/or for distinguishing between or among prostate cell proliferative disorders in a subject, comprising: a) extracting, or otherwise isolating genomic DNA from a biological sample that has been obtained from the subject; b) contacting the genomic DNA of a), or a fragment thereof, comprising at least 16 contiguous nucleotides of a sequence of SEQ ID NO: 31 and sequences that hybridize under stringent conditions thereto, with one or more methylation-sensitive restriction enzymes, wherein the genomic DNA is, with respect to each cleavage recognition motif thereof, either cleaved thereby to produce cleavage fragments, or not cleaved thereby; and c) determining, based on a presence or absence of, or on property of at least one such cleavage fragment, the methylation state of at least one CpG dinucleotide of a sequence SEQ ID NO: 31, or an average, or a value reflecting an average methylation state of a plurality of CpG dinucleotides of SEQ ID NO: 31, wherein the biological sample is selected from the group consisting of biopsy and bodily fluids.
14. The method of any one of claims 1-8 or 13, wherein the body fluid is ejaculate, urine or blood.
</claims>
</document>
