<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/0402,A61B5/0408,A61B5/0428
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMAD, MARISA
BAXI, AMIT S.
KUMAR, ARVIND
MAGESHKUMAR, VINCENT S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56093174
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENSING OF A USER'S PHYSIOLOGICAL CONTEXT USING A COMPUTING DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide techniques and configurations for an apparatus for opportunistic measurements of users physiological context. In one instance, the apparatus may comprise a work surface that includes one or more electrodes disposed on the work surface to directly or indirectly contact with users portions of limbs, when the users portions of limbs are disposed on the work surface to interact with the apparatus, to obtain one or more parameters of users physiological context; and circuitry coupled with the electrodes to detect direct or indirect contact between the users portions of limbs and the electrodes and on detection, collect the parameters of the users physiological context while the direct or indirect contact is maintained. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus (100, 200, 300) for opportunistic measurements of user's context, said measurements including ECG measurements, said apparatus being a computing device comprising: at least one work surface (102, 202, 304) that includes one or more electrodes (110, 112, 114, 116; 210, 212, 214, 216) disposed on the work surface to directly contact with user's hands, palms, or wrists, when the user's hands, palms, or wrists are disposed on the work surface to interact with the apparatus, to obtain one or more parameters of user's physiological context; and circuitry (124, 224) coupled with the electrodes to detect direct contact between the user's hands, palms, or wrists and the electrodes and on detection, collect the one or more parameters of the user's physiological context while the direct contact is maintained, wherein the one or more electrodes form an electrically conductive pattern (160, 220, 302) on the work surface, characterized in that the electrically conductive pattern is electrically coupled with a sensing surface of a capacitive ECG measurement electrode (630) disposed inside the work surface or on a back side of the work surface, wherein the size of the electrically conductive pattern is greater than the size of the sensing surface, to expand the sensing surface of the capacitive electrode.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the circuitry comprises: at least one of the one or more electrodes to detect direct contact, with a determined electric potential; and a comparator coupled with the at least one electrode to detect a change in the determined electric potential, wherein the change is caused by the direct contact of the at least one electrode with the user's hands, palms, or wrists, wherein the comparator is to provide output that enables powering on of the electrically conductive pattern as a result of the detection of the change in the determined electric potential, wherein the circuitry further comprises a front end sensor module to receive and pre-process readings provided by the electrically conductive pattern during the direct contact with the user's hands, palms, or wrists, wherein the comparator output further enables powering on the front end sensor module and the electrically conductive pattern.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the electrically conductive pattern comprises a selected one of: a comb pattern, a zigzag pattern, a wave pattern, or a garland pattern.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the work surface comprises a substrate, wherein the electrically conductive pattern is disposed on an outer side of the substrate, and wherein the capacitive electrode is disposed on an inner side of the substrate, wherein the electrically conductive pattern is disposed on the substrate by film deposition, etching, or affixing an electrically conductive sticker comprising the pattern to the substrate.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the electrically conductive pattern comprises at least two electrocardiogram (ECG) electrodes.
6. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the electrically conductive pattern is coupled with one or more of: a temperature sensor to provide user's body temperature, or an optical sensor to provide a photoplethysmogram (PPG) of the user wherein the circuitry is to provide the parameters of the user's physiological context to a processing unit associated with the apparatus for further processing, wherein the user's physiological context comprises at least some of: electrocardiographic data, photoplethysmographic data, blood pressure, temperature, and respiration.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is a laptop computer or a desktop computer, wherein the work surface comprises a part of a keyboard of the laptop computer or the desktop computer.
8. The apparatus of any of claims 1 to 7, wherein the apparatus is a tablet computer or a smart phone, wherein the work surface comprises a selected one of a bezel of the tablet computer or a back side of the tablet computer or the smart phone.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising a casing, having the at least one work surface.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the casing comprises at least a portion of a keyboard of the apparatus, a bezel of the apparatus, or a back side of the apparatus.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the apparatus comprises one of: a laptop computer, a desktop computer, a tablet computer, or a smart phone.
12. A method (1000) of assembling an apparatus for opportunistic measurements of user's context, said measurements comprising ECG measurements, said method comprising: disposing (1002) a plurality of electrodes comprising an electrically conductive pattern on a work surface of a computing device; disposing (1004) circuitry in the computing device, for detecting direct contact between user's hands or wrists and the electrically conductive pattern and collecting one or more parameters of a user's physiological context during the direct contact; and electrically coupling (1006) the circuitry with the electrically conductive pattern, characterized in that the electrically conductive pattern is electrically coupled with a sensing surface of a capacitive ECG measurement electrode disposed inside the work surface or on a back side of the work surface, wherein the size of the electrically conductive pattern is greater than the size of the sensing surface, to expand the sensing surface of the capacitive electrode.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein disposing an electrically conductive pattern comprises etching, depositing the electrically conductive pattern on a substrate comprising the work surface, or affixing an electrically conductive sticker comprising the pattern to the substrate.
14. The method of claim 12 or 13, further comprising: communicatively coupling the circuitry with a processing unit of the computing device, for processing the one or more parameters of the user's physiological context.
</claims>
</document>
