<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0488,G06K9/00,G06K9/22,G06K9/72,G06N3/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MYSCRIPT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARADILLA, GUILLERMO
LALLICAN, PIERRE-MICHEL
PERRAUD, FREDDY
WIMMER, ZSOLT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53396392
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SUPERIMPOSED HANDWRITING RECOGNITION TECHNOLOGY
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method that is able to recognize a user's natural superimposed handwriting without any explicit separation between characters. The system and method is able to process single- stroke and multi-stroke characters. It can also process cursive handwriting. Further, the method and system can determine the boundaries of input words either by the use of a specific user input gesture or by detecting the word boundaries based on language characteristics and properties. The system and method analyzes the handwriting input through the processes of segmentation (116), character recognition (118), and language modeling (120). At least some of these processes occur concurrently through the use of dynamic programming.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing handwriting recognition for a plurality of at least partially superimposed fragments of a sequence of input strokes on a computing device (100), the computing device (100) comprising an input surface for sensing the sequence of input strokes, a processor (106) and at least one non-transitory computer readable medium under control of the processor (106), the at least one non-transitory computer readable medium embodying computer readable program code, the code executable by the processor (106) to: detect the geometry of the input strokes in at least sequential fragments of the sequence of input strokes; detect the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments, wherein the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments are detected from both spatial and temporal information of the input strokes, the temporal information providing knowledge of the time order of the input strokes; determine from the detected relative positions and geometries whether one or more of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments combine to form one or more likely characters; classify the fragments based on the determined likely characters; and provide the classified fragments to a recognition engine (900) for evaluation of character hypotheses based on the classified fragments, wherein the recognition engine (900) is configured to: create a segmentation graph based on the strokes of the classified fragments, wherein the segmentation graph includes nodes corresponding to character hypotheses; assign a recognition score to each node of the segmentation graph based on a pattern classifier; and generate linguistic meaning of the input strokes based on the recognition scores and a language model.
2. A system according to claim 1, wherein the code of the at least one non-transitory computer readable medium executable to determine the likely characters by determining whether at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a first fragment (904, 908) of the at least sequential fragments combines with at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a second fragment (906, 910) of the at least sequential fragments to likely form at least one character.
3. A system according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein each classified fragment is defined to contain complete characters formed by the input strokes of one or more input fragments.
4. A system according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the recognition engine (900) is configured to:
provide an output based on the simultaneous analysis of the segmentation graph, the recognition score, and the language model.
5. A method for providing handwriting recognition for a plurality of at least partially superimposed fragments of a sequence of input strokes on a computing device (100), the computing device (100) comprising an input surface for sensing the sequence of input strokes, a processor (106) and at least one non-transitory computer readable medium for recognizing the handwriting under control of the processor (106), the method comprising: detecting the geometry of the input strokes in at least sequential fragments of the sequence of input strokes; detecting the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments, wherein the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments are detected from both spatial and temporal information of the input strokes, the temporal information providing knowledge of the time order of the input strokes; determining from the detected relative positions and geometries whether one or more of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments combine to form one or more likely characters; classifying the fragments based on the determined likely characters; providing the classified fragments to a recognition engine (900) for evaluation of character hypotheses based on the classified fragments; creating a segmentation graph based on the strokes of the classified fragments, wherein the segmentation graph includes nodes corresponding to character hypotheses; assigning a recognition score to each node of the segmentation graph based on a pattern classifier; and generating linguistic meaning of the input strokes based on the recognition scores and a language model.
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the likely characters are determined by determining whether at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a first fragment (904, 908) of the at least sequential fragments combines with at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a second fragment (906, 910) of the at least sequential fragments to likely form at least one character.
7. A method according to claim 5 or claim 6, wherein each classified fragment is defined to contain complete characters formed by the input strokes of one or more input fragments.
8. A method according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein, within the recognition engine (900), the method comprises:
providing an output based on the simultaneous analysis of the segmentation graph, the recognition score, and the language model.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium having computer readable program code embodied therein, said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for a plurality of at least partially superimposed fragments of a sequence of input strokes on a computing device (100), the computing device (100) comprising an input surface for sensing the sequence of input strokes and a processor (106), the non-transitory computer readable medium under control of the processor (106) implementing the method comprising: detecting the geometry of the input strokes in at least sequential fragments of the sequence of input strokes; detecting the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments, wherein the relative positions of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments are detected from both spatial and temporal information of the input strokes, the temporal information providing knowledge of the time order of the input strokes; determining from the detected relative positions and geometries whether one or more of the input strokes of the at least sequential fragments combine to form one or more likely characters; classifying the fragments based on the determined likely characters; providing the classified fragments to a recognition engine (900) for evaluation of character hypotheses based on the classified fragments; creating a segmentation graph based on the strokes of the classified fragments, wherein the segmentation graph includes nodes corresponding to character hypotheses; assigning a recognition score to each node of the segmentation graph based on a pattern classifier; and generating linguistic meaning of the input strokes based on the recognition scores and a language model.
10. A non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 9, wherein the likely characters are determined by determining whether at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a first fragment (904, 908) of the at least sequential fragments combines with at least a segment of at least one input stroke of a second fragment (906, 910) of the at least sequential fragments to likely form at least one character.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 9 or claim 10, wherein each classified fragment is defined to contain complete characters formed by the input strokes of one or more input fragments.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein, within the recognition engine (900), the method comprises:
providing an output based on the simultaneous analysis of the segmentation graph, the recognition score, and the language model.
</claims>
</document>
