<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60G17/018,B60R1/00,B60T8/172,B60W40/06,B60W50/00,B62D15/02,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T3/40,G06T7/20,G06T7/55
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOBILEYE VISION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEIN, GIDEON
SHAAG, NADAV
BLUMENTHAL, ITAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56080466
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROAD PROFILE ALONG A PREDICTED PATH
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for determining a road profile along a predicted path. In one implementation, a system includes at least one image capture device configured to acquire a plurality of images of an area in a vicinity of a user vehicle; a data interface; and at least one processing device configured to receive the plurality of images captured by the image capture device through the data interface; and compute a profile of a road along one or more predicted paths of the user vehicle. At least one of the one or more predicted paths is predicted based on image data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system (100), comprising: at least one image capture device configured to acquire a plurality of images of an area in a vicinity of a user vehicle; a data interface (128); and at least one processing device (180, 190) configured to: receive the plurality of images captured by the image capture device through the data interface (128); process the images to estimate a predicted path of the vehicle; and compute a vertical contour of a road along the predicted path of the user vehicle, wherein the vertical contour is associated with a spatial or temporal reference specifying a time for a suspension control system of the user vehicle to act upon the vertical contour.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to compute a yaw rate of the user vehicle by estimating an ego-motion of the vehicle from the plurality of images.
3. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to identify lane markings in the plurality of images in the vicinity of the user vehicle and to determine the location of the user vehicle relative to the identified lane markings.
4. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the predicted path of the user vehicle is estimated based on machine learning.
5. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to apply a neural network to at least one image from the plurality of images of the area in the vicinity of the user vehicle and to predict the path of the user vehicle using the neural network, optionally wherein the neural network is a deep neural network that was trained over a large set of images to predict a future path from images of an area in a vicinity of a vehicle.
6. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the predicted path is predicted based on a kinematic sensor onboard the user vehicle, optionally wherein the kinematic sensor is a sensor that is adapted to measure a yaw rate of the vehicle or a steering angle of the vehicle.
7. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to compute the predicted paths taking into account a user policy input, optionally wherein the user policy input is based on at least one of: past maneuvers by the user vehicle or by peer user vehicles with whom the user vehicle is associated, preferences set by the user or for the user vehicle, settings for the area in a vicinity of the user vehicle or setting relating to the location of the user vehicle.
8. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to compute the predicted path taking into account a safety setting, optionally wherein the safety setting defines a safety envelope for a maneuver by the user vehicle and prohibited maneuvers and/or states.
9. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to compute two or more different vertical contours of a road along each one of respective two or more predicted paths of the user vehicle, optionally wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to monitor motion of the vehicle and determine which one of the two or more predicted paths the user vehicle is taking, and provide the vertical contour of the road that is associated with a path that the vehicle is taking as output or each of the two or more different vertical contours of the road as output.
10. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to detect an obstacle along the predicted path of the user vehicle and compute the predicted paths taking into account a lateral extent of the obstacle.
11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is further configured to compute the vertical contour of the road along estimated wheel tracks along the predicted path of the user vehicle.
12. The system (100) of any of the preceding claims, wherein acting upon the vertical contour includes determining an adjustment of the behavior of the suspension control system to respond to the vertical contour.
13. The system (100) of any of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one processing device (180, 190) is configured to determine two or more predicted path candidates based on the analysis of the plurality of images, and determine the predicted path from the two or more predicted path candidates based on crowdsourced information.
14. A method of estimating a vertical contour of a road, comprising: acquiring a plurality of images of an area in a vicinity of a user vehicle; obtaining a predicted path for the user vehicle, wherein the predicted path is predicted based on analysis of the plurality of images; and computing a vertical contour of a road along the predicted path of the user vehicle, wherein the vertical contour is associated with a spatial or temporal reference specifying a time for a suspension control system of the user vehicle to act upon the vertical contour.
15. The method according to claim 14, further comprising: computing a yaw rate of the user vehicle by estimating an ego-motion of the vehicle from the plurality of images; or detecting an obstacle along the predicted path of the user vehicle, and computing at least one or more predicted path taking into account a lateral extent of the obstacle.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the predicted path is estimated: using lane markings identified from the plurality of images in the vicinity of the user vehicle and using a location of the user vehicle relative to the identified lane markings; or taking into account a safety setting.
17. The method according to claim 14, wherein the predicted path is estimated: using machine learning, or using a neural network that is applied to at least one image from the plurality of images of the area in the vicinity of the user vehicle.
18. The method according to claim 14, wherein the predicted path is estimated using a user policy input, optionally wherein the user policy input is based on at least one of: past maneuvers by the user vehicle or by peer user vehicles with whom the user vehicle is associated, preferences set by the user or for the user vehicle, settings for the area in a vicinity of the user vehicle or setting relating to the location of the user vehicle.
19. The method according to claim 14, further comprising computing two or more vertical contours of the road along each one of respective two or more predicted paths,
optionally wherein the method further comprises: monitoring motion of the user vehicle to determine which one of the two or more predicted paths the user vehicle is taking; and providing as output the vertical contour of the road that is associated with a path that the vehicle is taking.
20. The method according to claim 14, wherein the vertical contour of the road includes a vertical contour of the road along each one or more wheel tracks associated with a respective predicted path.
</claims>
</document>
