<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B79/00,A01C21/00,A01G25/09,A01G25/16,A01M21/04,A01M7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Blue River Technology Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSON, Kent
PELL, Edward William Jeffcott
REDDEN, Lee Kamp
OSTROWSKI, James Patrick
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56878976
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODULAR PRECISION AGRICULTURE SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A modular system includes a hub and a set of modules removably coupled to the hub. The modules are physically coupled to the frame relative to each other so that each module can operate with respect to a different row of a field. An individual module includes a sensor for capturing field measurement data of individual plants along a row as the modular system moves through the geographic region. An individual module further includes a treatment mechanism for applying a treatment to the individual plants of the row based on the field measurement data before the modular system passes by the individual plants. An individual module further includes a computing device that determines the treatment based on the field measurement data and communicates data to the hub. The hub is communicatively coupled to the modules, so that it may exchange data between the modules and with a remote computing system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A modular system comprising: a frame physically coupled to a drive mechanism moving the modular system through a geographic region including a plurality of rows of plants; a plurality of modules physically coupled to the frame, the modules physically coupled relative to each other so that each module can operate with respect to a different one of the rows, wherein each module comprises: a sensor for capturing field measurement data of individual plants along one of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; a treatment mechanism for applying a treatment to the individual plants of the row based on the field measurement data before the modular system passes by the individual plants; and a computing device configured to determine the treatment based on the field measurement data and communicate the field measurement data and the treatment to the hub; and a hub physically coupled to the frame, the hub comprising: a module communications hub communicatively coupled to the computing devices of the plurality of modules to communicate data collected by a first module to a second module; wherein said modular system is configured to perform steps of: moving said modular system; activating a first sensor on the first module, the first sensor capturing field measurement data of individual plants along a first of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; determining, using a first computer included within the first module, a first treatment for the individual plants as the modular system moves through the geographic region; applying the first treatment to the individual plants using a first treatment mechanism before the modular system passes by the individual plants; activating a second sensor on the second module, the second sensor capturing field measurement data of individual plants along a second of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; determining, using a second computer included within the second module, a second treatment for the individual plants as the modular system moves through the geographic region; applying the second treatment to the individual plants using a second treatment mechanism before the modular system passes by the individual plants;
wherein said modular system is further configured to perform a step of:
communicating data from the first module to the second module, wherein the second computer determines the second treatment based on the data received from the first module.
2. The system of claim 1
wherein at least one of the steps performed by one of the components of the first module occurs concurrently with at least one of the steps performed by the components of the immediately adjacent second module.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the hub is adapted to communicate information regarding the first treatment from the first computer to the second computer, and wherein the second computer determines the second treatment based on the first treatment; or the hub is adapted to communicate the field measurement data of individual plants along the first row from the first computer to the second computer, and wherein the second computer determines the second treatment based on the field measurement data received from the first computer.
4. The system of claim 1
wherein the first computer determines the first treatment based on one of the following: a previous treatment applied by the first treatment mechanism of the first module during the modular system's current run through the geographic region; or: a previous treatment applied by the first treatment mechanism to a particular plant during a prior run through the geographic region.
5. The system of claim 1
wherein the first and the second treatments are determined at least in part based on information received from a hub communicatively coupled to the first and the second computers of the first and the second modules, respectively.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising
a third sensor for capturing verification image regarding the first treatment after the first treatment is applied to the individual plants, the verification image used by the first computer to calibrate the first module.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first computer is adapted to: determine a failure condition based on the verification image; report the failure condition to a hub that is communicatively coupled to both the first and second computers; and receive a failure rectification instruction from the hub to remedy the reported failure.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing devices are configured to:
exchange spatial parameters with the module communications hub, the spatial parameters including a time and/or a location of a last plant treated by one of the modules as the modular system travels through the geographic system; and/or:
exchange population parameters with the module communications hub, the population parameters including at least one from the group comprising: individual plant sizes from the plants of the rows; individual plant shapes from the plants of the rows; color of individual plants of the rows; uniformity of the plants of the rows; color uniformity of the plants of the rows; and spacing uniformity of the plants of the rows.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the module communication hub is configured to: receive data from the first module; determine one or more receiving modules based on a module indexing database; and:
address the data to the or each receiving module.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the module communication hub is configured to: receive data from the first module; and broadcast the data to the plurality of modules.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the modular communication hub is further configured to: receive field measurement data from the computing device of the first module; transmit the received field measurement data to the computing device of the second module.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication hub is configured to: receive information from the first module; process the information received from the first module into global information; and send the global information to one or more receiving modules, wherein the or each receiving modules is configured to translate the global information to local information.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the information received from the first module comprises field measurement data measured from the first sensor of the first module.
14. A method of using a modular system, the modular system comprising: a frame physically coupled to a drive mechanism moving the modular system through a geographic region including a plurality of rows of plants; a plurality of modules physically coupled to the frame, the modules physically coupled relative to each other so that each module can operate with respect to a different one of the rows, wherein each module comprises: a sensor for capturing field measurement data of individual plants along one of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; a treatment mechanism for applying a treatment to the individual plants of the row based on the field measurement data before the modular system passes by the individual plants; and a computing device configured to determine the treatment based on the field measurement data and communicate the field measurement data and the treatment to the hub; and a hub physically coupled to the frame, the hub comprising:
a module communications hub communicatively coupled to the computing devices of the plurality of modules to communicate data collected by a first module to a second module; wherein the method comprises: moving said modular system; activating a first sensor on the first module, the first sensor capturing field measurement data of individual plants along a first of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; determining, using a first computer included within the first module, a first treatment for the individual plants as the modular system moves through the geographic region; applying the first treatment to the individual plants using a first treatment mechanism before the modular system passes by the individual plants; activating a second sensor on the second module, the second sensor capturing field measurement data of individual plants along a second of the rows as the modular system moves through the geographic region; determining, using a second computer included within the second module, a second treatment for the individual plants as the modular system moves through the geographic region; applying the second treatment to the individual plants using a second treatment mechanism before the modular system passes by the individual plants; wherein the method further comprises:
communicating data from the first module to the second module, wherein the second computer determines the second treatment based on the data received from the first module.
</claims>
</document>
