<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOKOGAWA ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, ZHUO
SAKURABA, YUICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61157039
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
EVENT ANALYZING DEVICE, EVENT ANALYZING SYSTEM, EVENT ANALYZING METHOD, AND NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An event analyzing device (10) includes an event data collector (101) configured to collect event data which represents an event including an alarm which has occurred in a plurality of devices in a plant and an operation performed to the devices, a process data collector (103) configured to collect process data of the devices in the plant, a trend change detector (104) configured to detect a trend change of the process data collected by the process data collector, an event data converter (105) configured to convert the trend change detected by the trend change detector into a process change event represented in the same format as the event, and a cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) configured to integrate the event data collected by the event data collector and process change event data which represents the trend change in the process change event converted by the event data converter to analyze a cause-effect relationship between the event and the process change event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An event analyzing device (10) connectable to a historian (15) which stores a log of a plurality of pieces of event data and a log of process data, the event data representing an event including an alarm which has occurred in a plurality of devices in a plant and an operation performed to the devices, the process data being of the devices in the plant, the event analyzing device (10) comprising: an event data collector (101) configured to collect the event data from the historian (15); a process data collector (103) configured to collect the process data from the historian (15); a trend change detector (104) configured to detect a trend change representing a change of a trend of the process data collected by the process data collector (103); an event data converter (105) configured to convert the process data into process variation event data having information representing start time and end time of a continuation period of the trend change detected by the trend change detector (104); characterized by an event data aggregator (102) configured to aggregate the plurality of pieces of the event data of a same kind collected by the event data collector (101) to generate continued event data having information representing start time and end time of a continuation period of the event; and a cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) configured to generate a cause-effect model using integrated event data in which the continued event data generated by the event data aggregator (102) is integrated with the process variation event data converted by the event data converter (105), the cause-effect model being used for analyzing a cause-effect relationship between the event and a process change event, wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) comprises a cause-effect model building module (1062) configured to build a Bayesian network in which the cause-effect relationship is represented in terms of probabilities in the cause-effect model.
2. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 1,
wherein the trend change detector (104) is configured to analyze the process data collected by the process data collector (103) to detect a period of the trend change.
3. The event analyzing device (10) according to any one of claims 1 to 2,
wherein the event data converter (105) is configured to convert the trend change detected by the trend change detector (104) into the process change event data which has a period of the trend change as a continuation period.
4. The event analyzing device (10) according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to analyze the event data and the process change event data for each kind of the event, configured to count number of times of an occurrence of the event of each kind and number of times of overlapping between periods of occurrence of the events of different kind to calculate a relation between the events, and configured to classify the event and the process change event having a strong relation into one group.
5. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 4,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to project information on the event and the process change event classified into the group into a block of a time axis divided by a predetermined reference time width, and configured to calculate a conditional probability between the event and the process change event based on whether the event of each kind has occurred or not for each block to analyze a cause-effect relationship between the event and the process change event.
6. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 5,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to further calculate a distribution of delay times between the event and the process change event based on a difference between start times of the events of different kind for each block.
7. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 5 or 6,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to further calculate a distribution of continuation periods of the event or the process change event based on continuation periods of the events of each kind for each block.
8. The event analyzing device (10) according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to build the cause-effect model representing the cause-effect relationship analyzed by the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106), a distribution of delay times, and a distribution of continuation periods.
9. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 8,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to estimate the trend change of the process data, which is a cause of an occurrence of the event collected by the event data collector (101), based on the cause-effect model built by the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106).
10. The event analyzing device (10) according to claim 8 or 9,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to estimate the trend change of the process data in the future from the event collected by the event data collector (101) based on the cause-effect model built by the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106).
11. The event analyzing device (10) according to any one of claims 8 to 10,
wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) is configured to predict an abnormality of the plant from the event collected by the event data collector (101) or the trend change of the process data based on the cause-effect model built by the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106).
12. An event analyzing system comprising:
a historian (15) which stores a log of a plurality of pieces of event data and a log of process data, the event data representing an event including an alarm which has occurred in a plurality of devices in a plant and an operation performed to the devices, the process data being of the devices in the plant, and the event analyzing device (10) according to claim 1.
13. An event analyzing method performed by an event analyzing device (10) connected to a historian (15) which stores a log of a plurality of pieces of event data and a log of process data, the event data representing an event including an alarm which has occurred in a plurality of devices in a plant and an operation performed to the devices, the process data being of the devices in the plant, the event analyzing method comprising: collecting, by an event data collector (101), the event data from the historian (15); collecting, by a process data collector (103), the process data from the historian (15); detecting, by a trend change detector (104), a trend change representing a change of a trend of the process data collected by the process data collector (103); converting, by an event data converter (105), the process data into process variation event data having information representing start time and end time of a continuation period of the trend change detected by the trend change detector (104); characterized by aggregating by an event data aggregator (102), the plurality of pieces of the event data of a same kind collected by the event data collector (101) to generate continued event data having information representing start time and end time of a continuation period of the event; and generating, by a cause-effect relationship analyzer (106), a cause-effect model using integrated event data in which the continued event data generated by the event data aggregator (102) is integrated with the process variation event data converted by the event data converter (105), the cause-effect model being used for analyzing a cause-effect relationship between the event and a process change event, wherein the cause-effect relationship analyzer (106) comprises a cause-effect model building module (1062), and wherein the event analyzing method further comprises:
building, by the cause-effect model building module (1062), a Bayesian network in which the cause-effect relationship is represented in terms of probabilities in the cause-effect model.
14. An event analyzing program comprising instructions that, when executed on a computer, cause the computer to carry out the event analyzing method according to claim 13.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more event analyzing programs according to claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
