<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L21/06,H04L9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZUO, XIANG
ZHU, XUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58238369
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMMUNICATION METHOD, AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method including: receiving an audio signal of a transmitter; detecting sensitive information in the audio signal based on content of the audio signal; encrypting the sensitive information by using characteristic information of a receiver; and transmitting the audio signal including the encrypted sensitive information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communication method for performing communication between more than two parties, wherein a transmitting party wishes to share sensitive information with a selected at least one receiving party amongst a plurality of receiving parties, using an electronic device, the communication method comprising: receiving, by at least one processor, an audio signal of the transmitting party; detecting, by the at least one processor, sensitive information in the audio signal based on content of the audio signal and a context of another audio signal in a communication history of the transmitting party, encrypting, by the at least one processor, the sensitive information by using characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party, such that the plurality of receiving parties, except the selected at least one receiving party, are unable to decrypt the encrypted sensitive information; and transmitting, by the at least one processor, the audio signal including the encrypted sensitive information.
2. The communication method of claim 1, further comprising:
detecting, by the at least one processor, the sensitive information in the audio signal based on an audio characteristic of the audio signal.
3. The communication method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the at least one processor, the selected at least one receiving party based on a name of the receiving party detected in the audio signal, or the context of the other audio signal in the communication history of the transmitting party.
4. The communication method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of voiceprint information, fingerprint information, face information, vein pattern information, palm print information, and iris information of the selected at least one receiving party.
5. A communication method for performing communication between more than two parties, wherein a transmitting party wishes to share sensitive information with a selected at least one receiving party amongst a plurality of receiving parties, using an electronic device, the communication method comprising: receiving, by at least one processor, an audio signal comprising sensitive information that is detected based on content of the audio signal and a context of another audio signal in a communication history of the transmitting party, and is encrypted by using characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party, such that the plurality of receiving parties, except the selected at least one receiving party, are unable to decrypt the encrypted sensitive information; acquiring, by the at least one processor, the characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party; and decrypting, by the at least one processor, the encrypted sensitive information by using the characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party.
6. The communication method of claim 5, wherein the sensitive information is detected based on the context of the other audio signal in the communication history of the transmitting party and an audio characteristic of the audio signal.
7. The communication method of claim 5, wherein
the characteristic information comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of voiceprint information, fingerprint information, face information, vein pattern information, palm print information, and iris information of the receiving party, and
if the characteristic information comprises voiceprint information, the acquiring of the voiceprint information comprises: detecting a respiratory signal from the selected at least one receiving party; and determining, based on the respiratory signal, whether the voiceprint information is generated from the selected at least one receiving party.
8. An electronic device for performing communication between more than two parties, wherein a transmitting party wishes to share sensitive information with a selected at least one receiving party amongst a plurality of receiving parties, comprising at least one processor configured to: receive an audio signal of the transmitting party, detect sensitive information in the audio signal based on content of the audio signal and a context of another audio signal in a communication history of the transmitting party, encrypt the sensitive information by using characteristic information of a receiving party, such that the plurality of receiving parties, except the selected at least one receiving party, are unable to decrypt the encrypted sensitive information, and transmit the audio signal including the encrypted sensitive information.
9. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to detect the sensitive information in the audio signal based on an audio characteristic of the audio signal.
10. The electronic device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine the selected at least one receiving party of the audio signal based on a name of the selected at least one receiving party detected in the audio signal, or the context of the other audio signal in the communication history of the transmitting party.
11. An electronic device for performing communication between more than two parties, wherein a transmitting party wishes to share sensitive information with a selected at least one receiving party amongst a plurality of receiving parties, comprising at least one processor configured to: receive an audio signal comprising sensitive information that is detected based on content of the audio signal and a context of another audio signal in a communication history of the transmitting party, and is encrypted by using characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party, such that the plurality of receiving parties, except the selected at least one receiving party, are unable to decrypt the encrypted sensitive information, acquire the characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party, and decrypt the encrypted audio signal by using the characteristic information of the selected at least one receiving party.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the sensitive information is detected based on the context of the other audio signal in the communication history of the transmitting party and an audio characteristic of the audio signal.
13. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein
the characteristic information comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of voiceprint information, fingerprint information, face information, vein pattern information, palm print information, and iris information of the selected at least one receiving party, and
the at least one processor is further configured to detect a respiratory signal from the selected at least one receiving party when the voiceprint information is acquired, and determine, based on the detected respiratory signal, whether the voiceprint information is generated from the receiving party.
14. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein,
wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a computing device, causes the method of any one of claims 1 to 7 to be performed.
</claims>
</document>
