<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/02,A61B5/026,G06F19/00,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEARTFLOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, GILWOO
KOO, BON-KWON
TAYLOR, CHARLES A.
KIM, Hyun Jin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56550382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR ESTIMATING HEMODYNAMIC FORCES ACTING ON PLAQUE AND MONITORING RISK
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented methods are disclosed for estimating values of hemodynamic forces acting on plaque or lesions. One method includes: receiving one or more patient-specific parameters of at least a portion of a patient's vasculature that is prone to plaque progression, rupture, or erosion; constructing a patient-specific geometric model of at least a portion of a patient's vasculature that is prone to plaque progression, rupture, or erosion, using the received one or more patient-specific parameters; estimating, using one or more processors, the values of hemodynamic forces at one or more points on the patient-specific geometric model, using the patient-specific parameters and geometric model by measuring, deriving, or obtaining one or more of a pressure gradient and a radius gradient; and outputting the estimated values of hemodynamic forces to an electronic storage medium. Systems and computer readable media for executing these methods are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for estimating values of hemodynamic forces acting on plaque or lesions, the method comprising: receiving one or more patient-specific parameters of at least a portion of a patient's vasculature that is prone to plaque progression, rupture, or erosion; constructing a patient-specific geometric model of at least a portion of a patient's vasculature that is prone to plaque progression, rupture, or erosion, using the received one or more patient-specific parameters; measuring, deriving, or obtaining a pressure gradient along one or more points of the patient-specific geometric model; receiving a maximum allowable value of a hemodynamic force at a point of the patient-specific geometric model; estimating, using one or more processors, a value of the hemodynamic force acting at said point on the patient-specific geometric model, using the pressure gradient; comparing the received maximum allowable value of the hemodynamic force and the estimated value of the hemodynamic force acting at said point of the patient-specific geometric model; and outputting, to an electronic storage medium or display, the result of the comparison between the received maximum allowable value of the hemodynamic force and the estimated value of hemodynamic force acting at said point of the patient-specific geometric model.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein constructing a patient-specific geometric model includes: receiving one or more images of a patient anatomy comprising at least a portion of a vasculature that may be prone to a plaque progression, rupture, or erosion, using, one or more of, computerized tomography, optical coherence tomography, intravascular ultrasound imaging, intravascular pressure-wire, motorized pull-back system, angiogram, or a combination thereof; receiving or updating the one or more patient-specific parameters, using the received one or more images regarding patient anatomy; deriving a patient-specific geometric model, by identifying one or more portions of a patient's vasculature on the received one or more images; and updating the patient specific geometric model based on the received one or more patient-specific parameters.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, comprising: measuring, deriving, or obtaining a pressure gradient, radius gradient, or both from, one or more of, the patient-specific parameters, computerized tomography, optical coherence tomography, intravascular ultrasound imaging, intravascular pressure-wire, or flow simulations of the patient-specific geometric model; and measuring, deriving, or obtaining the axial plaque stress using, one or more of, radius gradient and the pressure gradient.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific parameters may include one or more measured, derived, or obtained physiological characteristics, including, one or more of, blood pressure, heart rate, hematocrit level, or a combination thereof.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific parameters may include one or more measured, derived, or obtained geometric characteristics, including, one or more of, radius gradient, lumen characteristics, stenosis characteristics, or a combination thereof.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific parameters may include one or more measured, derived, or obtained plaque characteristics, including, one or more of, the location of a plaque, adverse plaque characteristics score, plaque burden, presence of napkin ring, intensity of plaque, type of plaque, or a combination thereof.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific parameters may include one or more measured, derived, or obtained coronary dynamics characteristics, including, one or more of, the distensibility of coronary artery over cardiac cycle, bifurcation angle change over cardiac cycle, curvature change over cardiac cycle, or a combination thereof.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific parameters may include one or more patient characteristics, including, one or more of, age, gender, weight, height, medical history, or a combination thereof.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the hemodynamic forces acting on a plaque, lesion, or one or more points on the patient-specific geometric model include, one or more of, the traction within a vessel, traction force, pressure, wall shear stress, axial plaque stress, and/or fractional flow reserve (FFR), or a combination thereof.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific geometric model of a patient anatomy include, one or more of: a coronary vascular model; a cerebral vascular model; a peripheral vascular model; a hepatic vascular model; a renal vascular model; a visceral vascular model; or any vascular model with vessels supplying blood that may be prone to plaque formation.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving or calculating one or more patient-specific parameters includes acquiring a digital representation of one or more patient-specific parameters using non-invasive measurement techniques, including, one or more of, performing a cardiac CT imaging of the patient in the end diastole phase of the cardiac cycle, measuring through a mobile devices and/or smartphones or a non-invasive physiological measurement device affixed to the mobile device and/or smart phone, or a combination thereof.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving or calculating one or more patient-specific parameters includes acquiring a digital representation of one or more patient-specific parameters using invasive measurement techniques, including, performing intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) imaging, optical coherence tomography (OCT), pressure wire measurements, intravascular motorized pull-back measurements, or a combination thereof.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein outputting the estimated values of hemodynamic forces to an electronic storage medium includes outputting, one or more of, the estimated values of hemodynamic forces, the patient-specific parameters, or the patient-specific geometric model, to a display.
14. A system for predicting plaque progression, rupture, or erosion using one or more hemodynamic forces acting on lesions or plaque, the system comprising: a data storage device storing instructions for estimating hemodynamic forces; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method according to any one of claims 1 to 13
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium for use on a computer system containing computer-executable programming instructions configured, when executed by a processor of the computer system, to perform a method according to any one of claims 1 to 13.
</claims>
</document>
