<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YEO, HAE-DONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60954729
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY APPARATUS, CONTENT RECOGNIZING METHOD THEREOF, AND NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER READABLE RECORDING MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A display apparatus, a content recognizing method thereof, and a non-transitory computer readable recording medium are provided. The display apparatus includes a display, a memory configured to store information regarding a fingerprint which is generated by extracting a characteristic of a content, and a content corresponding to the fingerprint, a communication device configured to communicate with a server, and at least one processor configured to extract a characteristic of a screen of a content currently reproduced on the display and generate a fingerprint, to search presence/absence of a fingerprint matching the generated fingerprint in the memory, and, based on a result of the searching, to determine whether to transmit a query comprising the generated fingerprint to the server to request information on the currently reproduced content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display apparatus (100) comprising: a display (110); a memory (120) storing a fingerprint which is obtained based on a characteristic of a content, and information regarding the content corresponding to the fingerprint; a communication device (130); and at least one processor (140) configured to: identify a characteristic of a content currently reproduced on the display and obtain a fingerprint, search whether the obtained fingerprint matches the fingerprint stored in the memory (120), identify, based on a result of the searching, whether to transmit a query comprising the obtained fingerprint to a server (200) through the communication device (130) to request information on the currently reproduced content, characterised in that the processor (140) is further configured to: identify a type of the content based on the information on the currently reproduced content, and change a content recognition period based on the identified type of the content.
2. The display apparatus (100) of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: recognize, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint being searched in the memory (120), the currently reproduced content based on information on a content corresponding to the searched fingerprint, and control, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint not being found in the memory (120), the communication device (130) to transmit the query comprising the fingerprint to the server (200) to request the information on the currently reproduced content.
3. The display apparatus (100) of claim 2, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to control, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint not being found in the memory (120), the communication device (130) to receive the information on the currently reproduced content and fingerprints of the currently reproduced content from the server (200) based on the query.
4. The display apparatus (100) of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: recognize a content in every first period based on the content being an advertisement content, and recognize a content in every second period which is longer than the first period based on the content being a broadcast program content.
5. The display apparatus (100) of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: identify a type of the content based on the information on the currently reproduced content, and change a quantity of fingerprints of the currently reproduced content to be received according to the identified type of the content.
6. The display apparatus (100) of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: calculate a probability that the reproduced content is changed based on the information on the currently reproduced content and a viewing history, and change a content recognition period according to the calculated probability.
7. The display apparatus (100) of claim 2, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: predict a content to be reproduced next time based on a viewing history, and request information on the predicted content from the server (200).
8. The display apparatus (100) of claim 3, wherein the at least one processor (140) is further configured to: receive additional information related to the currently reproduced content from the server (200), and control the display (110) to display the received additional information with the currently reproduced content.
9. A method for recognizing a content being displayed by a display apparatus (100), the method comprising: identifying a characteristic of a currently reproduced content and obtaining a fingerprint; searching whether the obtained fingerprint matches the fingerprint pre-stored in the display apparatus (100); identifying, based on a result of the searching, whether to transmit a query comprising the obtained fingerprint to an external server (200) to request information on the currently reproduced content, characterised in that the method further comprises: identifying a type of the content based on the information on the currently reproduced content; and changing a content recognition period based on the identified type of the content.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the identifying whether to transmit the query to the external server (200) comprises: recognizing, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint being searched in the display apparatus (100), the currently reproduced content based on information on a content corresponding to the searched fingerprint, and transmitting, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint not being found in the display apparatus (100), the query comprising the fingerprint to the server (200) to request the information on the currently reproduced content.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising receiving, based on the fingerprint matching the obtained fingerprint not being found in the display apparatus (100), the information on the currently reproduced content and fingerprints of the currently reproduced content from the server (200) based on the query.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the changing of the content recognition period comprises: recognizing a content in every first period based on the content being an advertisement content, and recognizing a content in every second period which is longer than the first period based on the content being a broadcast program content.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying a type of the content based on the information on the currently reproduced content; and changing a quantity of fingerprints of the currently reproduced content to be received according to the identified type of the content.
</claims>
</document>
