<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K31/00,B60W10/06,B60W10/30,B60W30/14,B60W30/188,B60W50/00,G01C21/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KONG, QI
ZHU, FAN
YANG, GUANG
HU, SEN
YU, XIANG
LUO, QI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62489986
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SPEED CONTROL PARAMETER ESTIMATION METHOD FOR AUTONOMOUS DRIVING VEHICLES
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, when speed control command (e.g., throttle, brake commands) is issued based on a target speed, a first feedback parameters is determined based on an expected speed and an actual speed of the ADV in response to the speed control command. A second feedback parameter is determined by applying a speed control parameter adjustment (SCPA) model to a set of input parameters that are captured or measured at the point in time. The set of input parameters represents a driving environment of the ADV at the point in time. One or more control parameters of a speed controller of the ADV is adjusted based on the first feedback parameter and the second feedback parameter, where the speed controller is configured to generate and issue speed control commands. Subsequent speed control commands can be generated based on the adjusted speed control parameters of the speed controller.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle, the method comprising: determining a first feedback parameter based on the difference between an actual speed and an expected speed of the autonomous driving vehicle in response to a speed control command issued based on a target speed; wherein the expected speed is determined using a vehicle-specific powertrain reference model associated with the design characteristics of the autonomous driving vehicle based on the target speed; determining a second feedback parameter by applying a speed control parameter adjustment model to a set of input parameters that are obtained in real-time, the set of input parameters representing a driving environment of the autonomous driving vehicle at a point in time; dynamically adjusting a control parameter of a speed controller that issued the speed control command based on the first feedback parameter and the second feedback parameter; and generating a subsequent speed control command based on the adjusted control parameter of the speed controller for a subsequent command cycle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the control parameter of the speed controller is adjusted further based on the speed control command as a third feedback parameter representing a prior speed control command of a prior command cycle for a next speed control command of a next command cycle.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the control parameter of the speed controller is adjusted using a predetermined weighted algorithm based on the first, second, and third feedback parameters, wherein each of the first, second, and third feedback parameters is associated with an individual weight factor.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the speed control command comprises a throttle percentage of a maximum throttle command value.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the powertrain reference model was created based on engine, transmission, and driveline parameters associated with the autonomous driving vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of input parameters comprises at least one of a weather condition, road condition, wind resistance, map location, vehicle weight, or tire pressure measured at the point in time,
preferably, the set of input parameters further comprises a user driving preference of a passenger riding in the autonomous driving vehicle at the point in time.
7. A non-transitory machine-readable medium (1509) having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining a first feedback parameter based on the difference between an actual speed and an expected speed of the autonomous driving vehicle in response to a speed control command issued based on a target speed; wherein the expected speed is determined using a vehicle-specific powertrain reference model associated with the design characteristics of the autonomous driving vehicle based on the target speed; determining a second feedback parameter by applying a speed control parameter adjustment model to a set of input parameters that are obtained in real-time, the set of input parameters representing a driving environment of the autonomous driving vehicle at a point in time; dynamically adjusting a control parameter of a speed controller that issued the speed control command based on the first feedback parameter and the second feedback parameter; and generating a subsequent speed control command based on the adjusted control parameter of the speed controller for a subsequent command cycle.
8. The machine-readable medium (1509) of claim 7, wherein the control parameter of the speed controller is adjusted further based on the speed control command as a third feedback parameter representing a prior speed control command of a prior command cycle for a next speed control command of a next command cycle.
9. The machine-readable medium (1509) of claim 8, wherein the control parameter of the speed controller is adjusted using a predetermined weighted algorithm based on the first, second, and third feedback parameters, wherein each of the first, second, and third feedback parameters is associated with an individual weight factor.
10. The machine-readable medium (1509) of claim 9, wherein the speed control command comprises a throttle percentage of a maximum throttle command value.
11. The machine-readable medium (1509) of claim 10, wherein the powertrain reference model was created based on engine, transmission, and driveline parameters associated with the autonomous driving vehicle.
12. The machine-readable medium (1509) of claim 8, wherein the set of input parameters comprises at least one of a weather condition, road condition, wind resistance, map location, vehicle weight, or tire pressure measured at the point in time,
preferably, the set of input parameters further comprises a user driving preference of a passenger riding in the autonomous driving vehicle at the point in time.
13. A data processing system (1500), comprising: a processor (1501); and a memory (1503) coupled to the processor (1501) to store instructions, which when executed by the processor (1501), cause the processor (1501) to perform operations, the operations including determining a first feedback parameter based on and the difference between an actual speed and an expected speed of the autonomous driving vehicle in response to a speed control command issued based on a target speed; wherein the expected speed is determined using a vehicle-specific powertrain reference model associated with the design characteristics of the autonomous driving vehicle based on the target speed, determining a second feedback parameter by applying a speed control parameter adjustment model to a set of input parameters that are obtained in real-time, the set of input parameters representing a driving environment of the autonomous driving vehicle at a point in time, dynamically adjusting a control parameter of a speed controller that issued the speed control command based on the first feedback parameter and the second feedback parameter, and generating a subsequent speed control command based on the adjusted control parameter of the speed controller for a subsequent command cycle.
</claims>
</document>
