<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W28/08,H04W36/22,H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FU, JING
CORROY, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58518285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOAD BALANCING OF DATA TRAFFIC IN A COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK
</title>

<claims>
1. A system (200) for load balancing data traffic between at least two carriers in a communications network (100) supporting the at least two carriers, the system (200) comprising processing circuitry (210), the processing circuitry being configured to cause the system (200) to: perform a first machine learning phase in the form of training on a set of traffic flow properties and values thereof for a plurality of wireless devices and associated observed data flows of the wireless devices in order to determine at least two data flow classes; obtain current channel quality information for a wireless device (110a, 110b) of the at least two carriers, wherein the current channel quality information for the at least two carriers is a reference signal received power measurement on each of the at least two carriers; perform a second machine learning phase in the form of a testing phase wherein prediction of a future volume of a data flow of the wireless device is made, wherein the prediction involves classification of the data flow of the wireless device into one of the at least two data flow classes, and wherein the data flow comprises a sequence of packets scheduled either to or from the wireless device; and determine whether to offload the wireless device to a second carrier of the at least two carriers or not, according to - the current channel quality information, and - the predicted future volume according to the data flow class in which the data flow has been classified.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein each data flow class is associated with its own data flow volume interval.
3. The system according to any one of claims 1 to 2, wherein values of properties for the data flow is associated with one of the at least two data flow classes, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system to classify the data flow of the wireless device into one of at least two data flow classes according to the values of properties.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the properties comprise any of number of packets in the data flow, total size of all packets in the data flow, packet inter-arrival time for packets in the data flow, time since last packet for packets in the data flow, and packet bearer information of packets in the data flow.
5. The system according to claim 3 or 4, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system (200) to:
update the data flow class in accordance with which data flow class the data flow is classified into.
6. The system according to any one of claim 1 to 5, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system to initially classify the data flow of the wireless device into at least two of the at least two data flow classes according to a probability measure, and wherein the most probable one of these at least two of the at least two data flow classes is selected as final classification of the data flow.
7. The system according to any one of claim 1 to 6, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system (200) to:
divide the wireless devices in each data flow class between the at least two carriers according to the current channel quality information for the wireless devices.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system (200) to: obtain an indication of traffic overload on at least one of the at least two carriers; and wherein the indication acts as trigger for obtaining the current channel quality information, for predicting the future volume, and/or for determining whether to offload the wireless device or not.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to cause the system (200) to:
provide a load balancing command corresponding to a result from determining whether to offload the wireless device to the second carrier of the at least two carriers or not.
10. A radio access network node (120) comprising a system (200) according to any of the preceding claims.
11. A method for load balancing data traffic between at least two carriers in a communications network (100) supporting the at least two carriers, the method being performed by a system (200), comprising: performing a first machine learning phase in the form of training on a set of traffic flow properties and values thereof for a plurality of wireless devices and associated observed data flows of the wireless devices in order to determine at least two data flow classes; obtaining (S104) current channel quality information for a wireless device (110a, 110b) of the at least two carriers, wherein the current channel quality information for the at least two carriers is a reference signal received power measurement on each of the at least two carriers; performing a second machine learning phase in the form of a testing phase wherein prediction (S106) of a future volume of a data flow of the wireless device is made, wherein the prediction involves classification of the data flow of the wireless device into one of the at least two data flow classes, and wherein the data flow comprises a sequence of packets scheduled either to or from the wireless device; and determining (S108) whether to offload the wireless device to a second carrier of the at least two carriers or not according to - the current channel quality information and - the predicted future volume according to the data flow class in which the data flow has been classified.
12. A computer program (320) for load balancing data traffic between at least two carriers in a communications network (100) supporting the at least two carriers, the computer program (320) comprising computer code which, when run on processing circuitry (210) of a system (200), causes the system (200) to:
perform a first machine learning phase in the form of training on a set of traffic flow properties and values thereof for a plurality of wireless devices and associated observed data flows of the wireless devices in order to determine at least two data flow classes;
obtain (S104) current channel quality information for a wireless device (110a, 110b) of the at least two carriers, wherein the current channel quality information for the at least two carriers is a reference signal received power measurement on each of the at least two carriers;
perform a second machine learning phase in the form of a testing phase wherein prediction (S106) of a future volume of a data flow of the wireless device is made, wherein the prediction involves classification of the data flow of the wireless device into one of the at least two data flow classes, and wherein the data flow comprises a sequence of packets scheduled either to or from the wireless device; and
determine (S108) whether to offload the wireless device to a second carrier of the at least two carriers or not according to - the current channel quality information and - the predicted future volume according to the data flow class in which the data flow has been classified.
</claims>
</document>
