<document>

<filing_date>
2015-11-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/14,H04L12/26,H04L12/28,H04L12/46,H04L29/08,H04M17/00,H04W4/24,H04W4/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERSSON, PER
ANGELSMARK, OLA
PERSSON, JOAKIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54540025
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGING METERING FOR DISTRIBUTED IOT APPLICATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to methods of metering, and in particular to methods of metering activities of applications in distributed networks. More particular, the disclosure concerns a method for metering the operation of distributed Internet of Things, loT devices. This disclosure relates to a method for metering activities of an application 83 in a data processing system, wherein said data processing system comprises resource nodes configured to perform activities executed as actors 81 in the respective resource nodes; and wherein the actors are controlled by one or more runtimes 82 in the data processing system. The method comprises tracing Sl, by a runtime 82, information related to activities executed by actors 83 controlled by the runtime 82, and metering S3, by the runtime, the operation of the application based on the part of the traced information, which is related to activities of actors being used by the metered application. Furthermore, the disclosure relates to corresponding apparatuses and computer programs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, for metering activities of an application in a data processing system, wherein said data processing system comprises resource nodes distributed across a network and configured to perform activities executed as actors in the respective resource nodes; and wherein the actors are entities in accordance with an actor model executing actions reacting to input, and the actors being controlled by one or more runtimes in the data processing system, the method characterized by comprising: - tracing (S1), by a runtime, information related to activities executed by actors controlled by the runtime, wherein the information defines which actions have been executed and the number of times that the actions have been executed, - generating (S2) and tracing metadata associated with the activities, wherein the metadata comprises at least the physical locations on which the actors are deployed; - metering (S3), by the runtime, the operation of the application based on the part of the traced information including the metadata, which is related to activities of actors being used by the metered application; and - reporting (S4) the information including the associated metadata related to activities executed by actors controlled by the runtime to a runtime manager.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method comprises: - executing (S0) one or more activities in one or more actors.
3. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the metadata further comprises at least one of time or external conditions related to the activities; application ID of the application using the actions and the size of the data transferred between the runtime and the respective actor.
4. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the functionality executed by the actors involve operation on data and/or utilization of resources.
5. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the functionality executed by the actors is encapsulated and wherein the runtime is configured to handle encapsulated functionality, without requiring access to data that is processed by the actor.
6. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the runtime runs in a resource node, a gateway, or in a network node in the data processing system, or a cloud server.
7. A method, performed in a runtime manager, of metering the operation of an application in a data processing system comprising resource nodes distributed across a network and configured to perform activities executed as actors in the respective resource nodes, the method characterized by comprising: - receiving (S11), from one or more runtimes, information about activities of actors being entities in accordance with an actor model executing actions reacting to input and being controlled by the respective runtime, wherein the information defines which actions have been executed and the number of times that the actions have been executed, - receiving (S12), from the one or more runtimes, metadata associated with the activities of actors, wherein the metadata comprises at least the physical locations on which the actors are deployed; - metering (S13) the operation of the application based on the part of the received information including the associated metadata, which is related to activity of actors that are used by the metered application.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the metadata comprises at least one of time or external conditions related to the activities and application ID of the application using the actions.
9. An apparatus (900) configured for metering activities of an application in a data processing system, wherein said data processing system comprises resource nodes (95) distributed across a network and configured to perform activities executed as actors in the respective resource nodes; the apparatus comprising: - one or more memories (920) comprising computer readable code; and - one or more processors (910) in response to execution of the computer readable code, using a programming model comprising actors executing activities in the resource nodes and one or more runtimes for controlling the actors, characterized by being configured to: ∘ trace, by a runtime, information related to activities executed by actors, wherein the actors are entities in accordance with an actor model executing actions reacting to input, and the actors being controlled by the runtime, wherein the information defines which actions have been executed and the number of times that the actions have been executed, ∘ generate (S2) and trace metadata associated with the activities, wherein the metadata comprises at least the physical locations on which the actors are deployed; ∘ meter, by the runtime, the operation of the application based on the part of the traced information including the metadata, which is related to activities of actors being used by the metered application; and ∘ report (S4) the information including the associated metadata related to activities executed by actors controlled by the runtime to a runtime manager.
10. An runtime manager configured for metering the operation of an application in a data processing system, wherein said data processing system comprises resource nodes (95) distributed across a network and configured to perform activities executed as actors in the respective resource nodes; the runtime manager comprising: - one or more memories (120) comprising computer readable code; and - one or more processors (110) in response to execution of the computer readable code, using a programming model comprising actors executing activities in the resource nodes and one or more runtimes for controlling the actors, characterized by being configured to: ∘ receive, from one or more runtimes, information about activities of actors being entities in accordance with an actor model executing actions reacting to input, and being controlled by the respective runtime, wherein the information defines which actions have been executed and the number of times that the actions have been executed, ∘ receive (S12), from the one or more runtimes, metadata associated with the activities of actors, wherein the metadata comprises at least the physical locations on which the actors are deployed; ∘ meter the operation of the application based on the part of the received information including the associated metadata, which is related to activity of actors that are used by the metered application.
11. A computer program comprising computer program code which, when executed in an apparatus, causes the apparatus to execute the methods for metering according to any of the claims 1 to 8.
</claims>
</document>
