<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60K35/00,B60R1/00,B62D15/02,G06F3/0486,G06F3/0488,G06K9/00,G06T7/13,G06T7/246,G06T7/73,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, ILHO
OH, NAMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57281058
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS FOR PARKING VEHICLE AND VEHICLE
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus configured to park a vehicle includes a plurality of cameras configured to acquire images of surroundings of the vehicle; a display configured to display an around-view image showing a view around the vehicle that is generated by combining the images acquired by the plurality of cameras; and a processor. The processor is configured to determine a first input that is applied on the around-view image displayed on the display; display, according to the first input that has been applied on the around-view image, a parking guide image representing a user-specified parking region for the vehicle; determine whether there is an actual parking region that matches the displayed parking guide image representing the user-specified parking region; and based on a determination that there is an actual parking region that matches the displayed parking guide image, provide a signal that controls a parking operation of the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus (100) configured to park a vehicle comprising: a display (180) configured to display an around-view image showing a view around the vehicle; and a processor (170) configured to: display, in response to a first input that has been applied on the around-view image on the display, a parking guide image representing a user-specified parking region for the vehicle, wherein the first input is a touch-and-drag input received through the display (180) while the around-view image is displayed, provide, when the parking guide image is matched to a real parking region, a signal that controls a parking operation of the vehicle to a driving unit of the vehicle, detect a change in a surrounding environment of the vehicle while the vehicle is in a parked state, based on the detection of the change in the surrounding environment while the vehicle is in the parked state, provide a second signal that controls the vehicle to move and perform a second parking operation based on the change in the surrounding environment, and detect the change in the surrounding environment by detecting a change in a rainfall, a snowfall, or an intensity of sunlight radiated on the vehicle, wherein based on the determination that there is not an actual parking region that matches the displayed parking guide image, the processor (170) is configured to control a recommended parking space to be displayed on the display, characterized in that the processor (170) is configured to control the recommended parking space to be displayed on the display by: determining at least one available parking space; determining, from among the at least one available parking space, a parking space having a largest region overlapping with the parking guide image; and display the parking space having the largest region overlapping with the parking guide image as the recommended parking space.
2. The apparatus (100) according to claim 1, wherein
wherein the touch-and-drag input comprises a drag input starting from a touched first point on the around-view image and extending to a second point having a horizontal axis and a vertical axis that are different from the first point, and
the parking guide image has a rectangular shape having an invisible line connecting the first point and the second point as a diagonal line.
3. The apparatus (100) according to claim 2, wherein the processor (170) is configured to provide the signal that controls the parking operation of the vehicle such that a front side of the vehicle is parked at a location corresponding to the first point of the touch-and-drag input and a rear side of the vehicle is parked at a location corresponding to the second point of the touch-and-drag input.
4. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claim 1 to 3, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: determine that a second input is applied on the around-view image displayed on the display; and based on the second input that is applied on the around-view image, control a position, a size, a direction, or a shape of the parking guide image displayed on the around view image.
5. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to:
based on the determination that there is an actual parking region that matches the displayed parking guide image, control a parking availability notice to be output through the display.
6. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to:
based on a determination that there is not an actual parking region that matches the displayed parking guide image, control a parking unavailability notice to be output.
7. The apparatus (100) according to claim 1, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: determine that a third input is applied to the display; and based on the determination that the third input has been applied, provide the signal that controls the parking operation of the vehicle such that the vehicle is parked in the recommended parking space.
8. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: determine that the first input is a long touch input received through the display while the around-view image is displayed; determine a duration of the long touch input; and control a size of the parking guide image to be changed in proportion to the duration of the long touch input.
9. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the processor (170) is configured to: determine a recommended parking space according to at least one of a parking history, a detected surrounding environment, or a detected object; and control the display to display, on the around-view image, the recommended parking space.
10. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: detect at least one object located near the parking region; determine at least one distance between the at least one object and an estimated parked state of the vehicle in the parking region; and control the display to display an indication of the at least one distance between the at least one object and the estimated parking state of the vehicle in the parking region wherein the processor (170) is configured to provide the signal that controls the parking operation of the vehicle such that a distance between the at least one object and a driver-side door of the vehicle exceeds a threshold.
11. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: determine that a second parking region is available while the vehicle is in a parked state; and based on the determination that the second parking region is available while the vehicle is in a parked state, provide a second signal controls the vehicle to move and perform a second parking operation into the second parking region.
12. The apparatus (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein the processor (170) is further configured to: acquire information about distance between at least one object and an estimated parked state of the vehicle in the parking region; and control the display to display an indication corresponding to the distance information between the at least one object and the estimated parking state of the vehicle in the parking region.
</claims>
</document>
