<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOTAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAHRAEENI, MOHAMMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56409641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF CHARACTERISING A SUBSURFACE REGION USING MULTIPLE POINT STATISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are methods of modelling a subsurface region. One method comprises defining a plurality of variables for describing said subsurface region, each variable having a corresponding, domain set, neighbourhood set, and conflict set. The conflict set comprises conflict variables, which are previously assigned variable which reduces the domain set of its corresponding variable. The method comprises further sequentially performing for each variable: a) selecting an unassigned variable; b) assigning a value to the selected variable from its domain set; c) assessing whether a constraint is satisfied. The selected variable's corresponding conflict set is updated to include any previously assigned variables comprised within the selected variable's corresponding neighbourhood set when said constraint is assessed not to be satisfied at step c). Another method comprises foreseeing dead end variables before they are simulated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of characterising a subsurface region, the method comprising: defining a plurality of variables for describing said subsurface region, each variable comprising a cell representing a subsurface area or subsurface volume forming part of said subsurface region, said plurality of variables having corresponding thereto: a domain set, said domain set comprising zero or more possible values assignable to its corresponding variable, a neighbourhood set, each neighbourhood set comprising a subset of said plurality of variables which neighbour its corresponding variable, and a conflict set comprising zero or more conflict variables, each conflict variable being a previously assigned variable which reduces the domain set of its corresponding variable; sequentially performing the following steps a) to c) for each variable of said plurality of variables: a) selecting an unassigned variable from said plurality of variables; b) assigning a value to the selected variable from the selected variable's corresponding domain set, provided it is not empty; and c) assessing whether a constraint is satisfied with the selected variable assigned the assigned value; said method further comprising:
updating the selected variable's corresponding conflict set to include any conflict variables; said conflict variables being any previously assigned variables comprised within the selected variable's corresponding neighbourhood set when said constraint is assessed not to be satisfied at step c); and should the selected variable's corresponding domain set comprise no values which satisfy said constraint: determining a most recent conflict variable from the selected variable's corresponding conflict set, said most recent conflict variable comprising the variable in said selected variable's corresponding conflict set which has been most recently assigned a value; unassigning the values previously assigned to the selected variable, the most recent conflict variable and all intervening variables which were assigned values between said selected variable being assigned a value and said most recent conflict variable being assigned a value; assigning to said most recent conflict variable, if available, a further value from said most recent conflict variable's domain set; continuing said sequentially performing steps a) to c) from said most recent conflict variable; and using the results of said method to aid hydrocarbon recovery from a reservoir.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising, should said constraint be assessed not to be satisfied at step c):
unassigning the assigned value from the selected variable and assigning, if available, a further value from the selected variable's corresponding domain set.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2 further comprising updating the conflict set corresponding to said most recent conflict variable with the conflict set corresponding to said selected variable except for said most recent conflict variable.
4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said step of unassigning the values previously assigned to the selected variable comprises returning the conflict set and domain set corresponding to each variable being unassigned, to their state prior to the last performed iteration of steps (a) to (c).
5. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said constraint is based on training information describing a conceptual geological model of a subsurface region.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5 wherein said constraint is additionally based on other data.
7. A method as claimed in claim 6 wherein said constraint is additionally based on an average of one or more properties of a plurality of variables in the vicinity of said selected variable.
8. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein said plurality of variables include one or more hard variables for which a value is known, or for which a value is assigned by another means, said hard variables never being selected at step a).
9. A method as claimed in any preceding claim wherein values in a domain set are sorted according to a measure to determine the order that they are assigned at step b).
10. A method as claimed in claim 9 wherein said measure for sorting said values in a domain set comprises:
determining a probability for each value in the domain set, the probability reflecting the likelihood that a value is an appropriate value for its corresponding variable; and using said probabilities to sort said values.
11. A method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the values are sorted either: in the order of decreasing probability; or in an order based on a weighted random selection for each position in the order, the weighting determined by said probabilities.
12. A method as claimed in claim 10 or 11, wherein said step of determining a probability uses a priori knowledge of the subsurface region.
13. A computer program comprising computer readable instructions which, when run on suitable computer apparatus, cause the computer apparatus to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 12.
14. A computer program carrier having stored thereon the computer program of claim 13.
15. A data processing apparatus comprising a processor specifically adapted to carry out the steps of the method as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
