<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON PRODUCTION PRINTING HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KESSELS, GERARDUS G.J.C.
KRUIZINGA, PETER
THIJSSEN, ABRAHAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59846397
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A POWER MANAGEMENT ARBITER SYSTEM FOR A PRINT FLEET AND A METHOD OF USING SAID SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A power management arbiter system and a method for managing a power up of a print fleet system. The print fleet system comprises a plurality of printers. Each printer of the plurality of printers comprises at least one engine, a power button, a power controller and a bi-directional communication interface with the power management arbiter system. The power management arbiter system is configured to determine which engines are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time. The determination of which engines are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account current physical data of the print fleet system and the environment of the print fleet system and historical data stored in the printers of the print fleet system or in storage of the power management arbiter system or provided by a web service system. The historical data comprise timings of previous power ups of the printers in the print fleet system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power management arbiter system (4) for managing a print fleet system, the print fleet system comprising a plurality of printers (1,2),
characterised in that
the power management arbiter system (4) is configured to manage the power up of the print fleet system,
each printer of the plurality of printers comprising a plurality of functional modules like a print engine (12,13,22,23) and a heater, a power controller (15,25), a communication interface (16, 26) with the power management arbiter system (4),
the power management arbiter system (4) being configured to determine which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, wherein
the determination of which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account historical data and actual physical data stored in the printers of the print fleet system or stored in storage of the power management arbiter system (4) or provided by a web service system, the historical data comprising timings of an electric current used during previous power ups of the functional modules of printers in the print fleet system and physical data measured during previous power ups of the functional modules of printers in the print fleet system.
2. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 1, wherein
the determination of which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account printer-specific variances of the functional modules in the printers in the print fleet system.
3. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the determination of which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account an actual physical parameter like temperature or humidity inside the functional modules of the printers of the print fleet system.
4. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 3, wherein at least one printer of the plurality of printers comprises a heater, and the determination of which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account a temperature of the heater.
5. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 1, wherein each printer of the plurality of printers comprises a print job queue (18, 28) for print jobs submitted to the printer for printing, each print job having print job specifications, the print job queue being readable by the print controller (15,25) which is configured to determine power up conditions for each print job based on the print job specifications and to transfer the power up conditions of each print job to the power management arbiter system (4).
6. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 1, wherein
the determination of which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, takes into account actual physical parameters of an environment of the print fleet system.
7. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 6, wherein the printers in the print fleet system comprise sensors (17, 27), via which sensors values of the actual physical parameters are gathered.
8. The power management arbiter system (4) according to claim 6, wherein the power management arbiter system (4) is connected to a digital network, via which digital values of the actual physical parameters and information from other printers of the print fleet system are gathered.
9. Method of managing a power up of a print fleet system comprising a plurality of printers and connected to a power management arbiter system (4),
the method characterised by the steps of: a) reading (S1) from storage of the power management arbiter system (4) or from storages of the printers of the print fleet system or provided by a web service system, historical data comprising timings of current used during previous power ups of functional modules of the printers (1, 2) of the print fleet system and physical data measured during previous power ups of the functional modules of printers (1, 2) in the print fleet system, and actual physical data (S2) of the print fleet system and an environment of the print fleet system, b) the power management arbiter system (4) determining (S3) which functional modules are allowed to power up, and, if allowed, at which point in time, c) powering up (S4) the functional modules of the printers (1, 2) of the print fleet according to the determination in the determining step b), wherein the determining step b) takes into account the historical data and the actual physical data read in step a).
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein a power up of a functional module of a printer (1, 2) of the print fleet system comprises phases of different power consumption, and the method comprises the step of overlapping a power up of two functional modules of printers (1, 2) of the print fleet system in time for at least one phase per functional module when a summarized power consumption over the printers (1, 2) of the print fleet during said at least one phase is below a maximum allowed power consumption (61).
11. The method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the method comprises the steps of monitoring a progress of the power up of a functional module of one printer (1, 2) in the print fleet system by another printer (1, 2) in the print fleet system, and powering up the other printer (1, 2) if the start of the powering up of the other printer (1, 2) is allowed according to the progress of the power up of the functional module of the one printer (1, 2).
12. The method according to any of the claims 9 - 11, wherein the method comprises the step of determining a time of start of the power up of the print fleet system taking into account a predetermined ready time of each printer (1, 2) in the print fleet system.
13. The method according to any of the claims 9 - 12, wherein the method comprises the step of optimizing an earliest ready time of each printer (1, 2) in the print fleet system taking into account a predetermined time of start of the power up of the print fleet system.
14. A non-transitory recording medium comprising computer executable program code which, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to perform the method according to any of the claims 9 - 13.
</claims>
</document>
