<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUNIPER NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YADAV, ALAM
N, MADHAVA
SANYAL, SAIKAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63254496
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USING MACHINE LEARNING TO MONITOR LINK QUALITY AND PREDICT LINK FAULTS
</title>

<abstract>
A device may receive a trained data model that has been trained using historical link quality information associated with a set of links. The device may determine, after receiving the trained data model, link quality information associated with a link that is actively supporting traffic. The device may classify the link by using the link quality information as input for the data model. The data model may classify the link into a class of a set of classes associated with measuring link quality. The device may determine an actual quality level of the link. The device may selectively update the class of the link after determining the actual link quality of the link. The device may perform one or more actions associated with improving link quality based on classifying the link and/or selectively updating the class of the link.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: one or more processors configured to: receive a trained data model, the trained data model being trained with historical link quality information associated with a set of links, the trained data model including one or more values associated with measuring link quality; determine (120), after receiving the trained data model, link quality information associated with a link that is actively supporting traffic flow; classify (125) the link by using the link quality information as input for the trained data model,
the trained data model to classify the link into: a first class associated with a first measure of link quality, a second class associated with a second measure of link quality, or a third class associated with a third measure of link quality; determine (130) that the link is not correctly classified, wherein the one or more processors, when determining that the link is not correctly classified, are configured to: identify a number of times that the link has been classified into the class, determine that the number of times that the link has been classified into the class does not satisfy a threshold number of classifications associated with the class, disable the link after determining that the number of times that the link has been classified into the class does not satisfy the threshold number of classifications associated with the class, and perform, after disabling the link, a diagnostic test to identify that the link is not correctly classified; update (135), based on a result of the diagnostic test, the class of the link to the first class, the second class, or the third class after determining that the link is not correctly classified, wherein the one or more processors, when updating the class of the link, are configured to:
update the class of the link to another class associated with a link quality that is different from a link quality of the class; and perform one or more actions associated with improving the link quality based on classifying the link and/or updating a class of the link.
2. The device of claim 1, where the historical link quality information and/or the link quality information includes at least one of: one or more actual measures of link quality, one or more predictors of link quality, one or more environment conditions, or some combination thereof.
3. The device of any of the preceding claims, where the one or more processors, when classifying the link, are configured to: classify the link into the second class or the third class,
the second class being associated with marginal link quality and the third class being associated with low link quality; and where the one or more processors are configured to:
update the trained data model with dynamic quality coefficient values,
the dynamic quality coefficient values being associated with retraining the trained data model to improve accuracy of link classification.
4. The device of claim 1 or 2, where the one or more processors, when classifying the link, are to: classify the link into the third class associated with the third measure of link quality, the third measure of link quality being associated with low link quality, and disable the link prior to an occurrence of an actual link error to prevent traffic drops on the link.
5. The device of any of the preceding claims, where the one or more processors, when determining that the link is not correctly classified, are further to: determine an actual quality level of the link based on the result of the diagnostic test, compare the actual quality level of the link and a quality level associated with the class of the link, determine that the link is not correctly classified based on comparing the actual quality level of the link and the quality level associated with the class of the link, and update the data model with one or more quality coefficient values that are associated with updating the class of the link based on the link not being correctly classified.
6. The device of any of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more actions associated with improving the link quality include: adapting to one or more environmental conditions associated with the link, or providing a recommendation to a device associated with an interested party to repair or replace one or more hardware components and/or software modules associated with the link.
7. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, a trained data model, the trained data model being trained using historical link quality information associated with a set of links; determining (120), by the device and after receiving the trained data model, link quality information associated with a link that is actively supporting traffic; classifying the link (125), by the device, by using the link quality information as input for the trained data model,
the trained data model to classify the link into a class of a set of classes associated with measuring link quality; determining (130), by the device, that the link is not correctly classified, wherein determining that the link is not correctly classified includes: identifying a number of times that the link has been classified into the class, determining that the number of times that the link has been classified into the class does not satisfy a threshold number of classifications associated with the class,, disabling the link after determining that the number of times that the link has been classified into the class does not satisfy the threshold number of classifications associated with the class,, and performing, after disabling the link, a diagnostic test to identify that the link is not correctly classified; selectively updating (135) the class of the link, by the device, based on a result of the diagnostic test, after determining that the link is not correctly classified, wherein updating the class of the link includes:
updating the class of the link to another class associated with a link quality that is different from a link quality of the class; and performing, by the device, one or more actions associated with improving the link quality based on classifying the link and/or selectively updating the class of the link.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising, after performing the diagnostic test to identify that the link is not correctly classified: determine the actual quality level of the link based on the result of the diagnostic test, comparing the actual quality level of the link and a quality level associated with the class of the link, determining whether the link is correctly classified based on comparing the actual quality level of the link and the quality level associated with the class of the link, and updating the trained data model with one or more values that are associated with classifying and/or updating the class of the link.
9. The method of claim 7 or 8, further comprising: updating the trained data model by modifying one or more quality coefficient values that are associated with classifying and/or updating the class of the link,
the one or more quality coefficient values being modified based on the result of the diagnostic test; and where updating the class of the link comprises:
updating the class of the link to another class using the trained data model that has been updated.
10. The method of claim 9, where updating the trained data model comprises: updating the trained data model using the one or more modified quality coefficient values; and where selectively updating the class of the link comprises:
providing the link quality information as input for the trained data model,
the trained data model to update the class of the link using the one or more modified quality coefficient values.
11. The method of claims 7-10, further comprising: determining whether to update the trained data model based on a result of the diagnostic test,
the trained data model to be updated if the result of the diagnostic test indicates that the link is incorrectly classified.
12. The method of claims 7-11, where determining the actual quality level of the link comprises: determining that the link is a high risk link, and monitoring and testing the link,
the monitoring and testing being more frequent and more exhaustive than monitoring and testing associated with lower risk links.
13. A computer program product comprising machine executable instructions residing on computer readable media, which, when loaded and executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations according to the method of any one of claims 7-12.
</claims>
</document>
