<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/09,B60W50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARELLI EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PIANESE, CESARE
ARSIE, IVAN
D'AMATO, ANTONIO
ARMENI, Saverio
NESCI, Walter
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61868670
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR RECOGNIZING THE DRIVING STYLE OF A DRIVER OF A LAND VEHICLE, AND CORRESPONDING APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is a method for recognizing the driving style of a driver of a land vehicle, of the type that envisages acquiring (110) information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle from sensors and calculating, as a function of said information on the dynamics of the vehicle, a class of membership of the driving style () of the driver.The method comprises:- analysing said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle in order to identify start of an event of recognition of a manoeuvreand to start (cmd) a procedure of recognition (30) of the event that comprises:- reconstructing (140) a manoeuvreperformed by the driver by computing components of displacement of the vehicle ((),()) as a function of the information on the dynamics of the vehicle (DI) arranged in a displacement time series () that represents a reconstruction of said manoeuvre ()- identifying (140) the manoeuvre performed (), by comparing said displacement time series () with models (tp) of time series corresponding to pre-determined manoeuvres stored in a database, in particular by applying a Dynamic-Time-Warping procedure;- defining (210) regions in a cartesian plane having as axes a lateral acceleration () and a longitudinal acceleration (), in particular manifolds (S1, S2, S3);- computing (220) cost functionals () for the three driving styles, which calculate a distance between points defined by values of acceleration in said cartesian plane of said manoeuvre () and the boundary of each of the three manifolds (S1, S2, S3); and- recognising (230) the driving style (), on the basis of said cost functionals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for recognizing the driving style of a driver of a land vehicle, of the type that envisages acquiring (110) information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle from sensors and calculating, as a function of said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle, a class of membership of the driving style (stl) of the driver, said method being characterized in that it comprises: - analysing (130) said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle in order to identify the start of an event of recognition of a manoeuvre (mvr) and to start (cmd) a procedure (130) of recognition of the event, which comprises: - reconstructing (140) a manoeuvre (mvr) performed by the driver by computing components of displacement of the vehicle (Xg(t), Yg(t)) as a function of the information on the dynamics of the vehicle (DI) arranged in a displacement time series (mvrx, mvry) that represents a reconstruction of said manoeuvre (mvr); - identifying (150) the manoeuvre performed (mvr) by comparing said displacement time series (mvrx, mvry) with models (tp) of time series corresponding to pre-determined manoeuvres stored in a database, in particular by applying a Dynamic-Time-Warping procedure; - defining (210) regions, in particular manifolds, (S1, S2, S3), in a cartesian plane having as axes a lateral acceleration (alat) and a longitudinal acceleration (along) comprised in said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle; - computing (220) cost functionals (Jcmft, Jnrm, Jsprt) for three driving styles, which calculate a distance between points defined by values of acceleration in said cartesian plane of said manoeuvre (mvr) and the boundary of each of three respective regions (S1, S2, S3); - recognising (230) the driving style (stl), on the basis of said cost functionals.
2. The method according to Claim 1, characterized in that said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle also comprises information (ERC) on the road condition or external environment.
3. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that said operation of analysing said information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle in order to identify the start of an event of recognition of a manoeuvre (mvr) and to start (cmd) a procedure of recognition (30) of the event comprises evaluating overstepping of a threshold value by the lateral acceleration (alat).
4. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that it comprises an operation of filtering (120) of the noise in the signals regarding said acquired information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle, in particular via low-pass filters and/or filters with forgetting factor.
5. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that said operation of reconstructing (140) a manoeuvre (mvr) performed by the driver by computing components of displacement of the vehicle as a function of the information on the dynamics of the vehicle arranged in a time series (X, Y) comprises reconstructing the displacement of the vehicle (TV) as a function of the longitudinal velocity (vlong), the lateral velocity (vlat), and the angle of yaw (ψ), to obtain components (Xg(t), Yg(t)) of the displacement as a function of time (t) and calculating, on the basis of said components (Xg(t), Yg(t)) of the displacement as a function of time (t), corresponding displacement time series (mvrx, mvry) that represent the manoeuvre (mvr) .
6. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that said operation of identifying (150) the manoeuvre (mvr) performed comprises making said comparison by applying a Dynamic-Time-Warping procedure to evaluate the resemblance between said displacement time series (mvrx, mvry) and said models of time series (tp) corresponding to pre-determined stored manoeuvres.
7. The method according to Claim 6, characterized in that it comprises defining said regions (S1, S2, S3) by means of respective style parameters (PAR_MAN1, PAR_MAN2, and PAR_MAN3) that multiply the maximum acceleration and define a corresponding condition of maximum acceleration (|a|max,cmft, |a|max,nrm, |a|max,sprt) for the modulus of the acceleration of the vehicle (TV).
8. The method according to Claim 7, characterized in that said cost functionals (Jcmft, Jnrm, Jsprt) are defined as the time curves of quadratic radial distances (dcmft, dnrm, dsprt) between points defined by values of acceleration in said cartesian plane of said manoeuvre (mvr) that are defined by the modulus of the current acceleration vector (|a|) and the boundary of each of the three manifolds (S1, S2, S3), defined by the modulus of the maximum acceleration of the manifolds (|a|max,cmft, |a|max,nrm , |a|max,sprt) .
9. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that said operation of recognizing (230) the driving style (stl) on the basis of said cost functionals comprises identifying the region that is closest to the distribution of the accelerations and hence presenting the minimum cost functional (J), said region being identified by the cost functional that has the minimum value.
10. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that it comprises selecting a new style if a minimum cost functional associated to the new style is lower than the previous one by a given amount (Δ) for a given time interval (DT), which is in particular calibratable.
11. The method according to Claim 1 or Claim 2, characterized in that it comprises using the manoeuvre (mvr) as further input value for the operation of identifying the driving style.
12. The method according to Claim 7, characterized in that it comprises a procedure of characterization of the driving styles (300), which includes acquiring values of information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle from sensors corresponding to execution by a plurality of drivers of a given set of manoeuvres, calculating spectra of said values and peak frequency values of said spectra, plotting said frequency values (fp) as a function of the velocity (v) of the vehicle (TV), and defining in the velocity-frequency plane thus defined regions (Z1, Z2, Z3) corresponding to classes (CL1, CL2, CL3) of driving style.
13. The method according to Claim 7, characterized in that it comprises a procedure of characterization of the driving styles (300), which includes a step (310) that envisages acquiring values of information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle from sensors, in particular also sensors for detecting road or environmental conditions (ERC), corresponding to execution by a plurality of drivers of a given set of manoeuvres, and using said values for calibrating (340) said style parameters (PAR_MAN1, PAR_MAN2, and PAR_MAN3) in such a way that each region (S1, S2, S3) will approximate as closely as possible the distribution of the accelerations in said data, in particular selecting the style parameter that minimizes the respective cost functional.
14. An apparatus for recognizing the driving style of a driver of a land vehicle, comprising sensor means for acquiring (110) information (DI) on the dynamics of the vehicle from sensors and configured for calculating, as a function of said information on the dynamics of the vehicle, a class of membership of the driving style (stl) of the driver, said apparatus being characterized in that it comprises one or more microprocessor modules (10, 20, 25) configured for carrying out the operations of the method according to any one of Claims 1 to 13.
15. The apparatus according to Claim 14, characterized in that said one or more microprocessor modules (10, 20, 25) are implemented via one or more processors of the motor vehicle (TV).
16. The apparatus according to Claim 14, characterized in that said one or more microprocessor modules (10, 20, 25) are implemented via a portable computer terminal, in particular comprising a triaxial accelerometer and a GPS position detector.
</claims>
</document>
