<document>

<filing_date>
2013-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,H04N5/235,H04N5/32,H04N5/361
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJIFILM
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKAHORI, SADATO
YAMADA, MASAHIKO
TAKAHASHI, TOMOYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49327749
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
X-RAY EXPOSURE CONTROL DEVICE, X-RAY IMAGE DETECTION APPARATUS, AND X-RAY IMAGE CAPTURING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
This X-ray exposure control device includes: an X-ray detection element (18) provided with a plurality of dose-detecting pixels (76) for detecting the dose in X-ray irradiation; a region-setting unit (86) for setting a usage pixel region comprising dose-detecting pixels (76) to be used, from among the plurality of dose-detecting pixels (76), in X-ray irradiation; a signal generation unit (90) for generating an X-ray irradiation stop signal in accordance with the detected dose of the dose-detecting pixels (76) in the set usage pixel region; and a transmission unit (94) for transmitting the X-ray irradiation stop signal to the X-ray source. The X-ray exposure control device makes it possible to acquire an appropriately dense X-ray image at all times in the same image-capturing environment even when capturing images of a variety of different sites. Provided are an X-ray image detection apparatus including the X-ray exposure control device, and an X-ray image capturing system including the X-ray image detection apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An X-ray exposure control device which is used in an X-ray image detection apparatus (14, 102, 122) to detect an X-ray image of a radiography target (16) exposed to X-ray radiation from an X-ray source (12) and which controls an accumulated dose of the X-ray radiation received by the radiography target, the X-ray exposure control device comprising: an X-ray detection element (18, 18a, 18b, 18c) including a plurality of pixels for dose detection (76, 76a) each detecting a dose during the X-ray radiation; a region setting unit (86) configured to set a use pixel region including pixels for use in dose detection from the plurality of pixels for dose detection during the X-ray radiation; a storage unit (84) configured to read out the dose detected by each of the plurality of pixels for dose detection in the X-ray detection element at each preset sampling timing during the X-ray radiation, to obtain the accumulated dose by accumulating the dose detected and read out at each preset sampling timing, and to store the accumulated dose as dose information; a signal generating unit (90) configured to read out the accumulated dose from the storage unit (84), calculate an estimated time at which the accumulated dose reaches a target value and generate a stop signal for stopping the X-ray radiation from the X-ray source when the calculated estimated time is reached; and a transmission unit (94) configured to transmit to the X-ray source the stop signal to stop the X-ray radiation as generated by the signal generating unit, characterised in that the region setting unit (86) is configured to identify subject pixels representing the radiography target constituting a subject or pixels within a radiation field exposed to the X-ray radiation by combining a plurality of pixel characteristics and neighboring pixel characteristics from dose information of the plurality of pixels for dose detection, and set the use pixel region containing the subject pixels or the pixels within the radiation field as the pixels for use in the dose detection.
2. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 1, wherein the region setting unit is configured to set the use pixel region by analyzing dose information of the plurality of pixels for dose detection at a preset timing.
3. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 2, wherein the preset timing is a preset, fixed timing.
4. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 2, wherein the preset timing is a specified timing as specified from outside.
5. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 4, wherein the specified timing is based on at least one of a set value preset according to the radiography target, a tube current of the X-ray source and a tube voltage of the X-ray source.
6. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the region setting unit is configured to identify the subject pixels or the pixels within the radiation field, and set a part of the subject pixels or a part of the pixels within the radiation field as the pixels for use in the dose detection.
7. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the region setting unit has a plurality of modes selectable according to the radiography target which is preset and is configured to set the pixels for use in the dose detection according to a mode selected according to the radiography target.
8. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the region setting unit has a plurality of modes and is configured to set the pixels for use in the dose detection according to a mode selected according to characteristics of an image.
9. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 8, wherein the region setting unit is configured to determine the selected mode based on characteristics in a subject region or a region within the radiation field.
10. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the region setting unit has a plurality of modes, and is configured to detect the pixels for use in the dose detection in the plurality of modes and determines the pixels for use in the dose detection to be set according to characteristics of an image.
11. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the plurality of modes include at least one mode of a first mode which sets pixels on a high dose side as the pixels for use in the dose detection in a cumulative dose histogram in a region set from the identified subject pixels, the identified pixels within the radiation field, or the plurality of pixel characteristics and the neighboring pixel characteristics; a second mode which sets pixels on a low dose side in the cumulative histogram as the pixels for use in the dose detection; and a mode which sets pixels in a vicinity of a median value in the cumulative histogram as the pixels for use in the dose detection.
12. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the plurality of modes include a mode for specifying the use pixel region from outside or a mode for radiographing at a preset dose.
13. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the plurality of modes include at least one mode of a first mode which sets the pixels for use in the dose detection based on a dose of the identified subject pixels; a second mode which sets the pixels for use in the dose detection based on a dose of the identified pixels within the radiation field; a third mode which sets the use pixel region by combining the plurality of pixel characteristics and the neighboring pixel characteristics; and a fourth mode which sets the use pixel region using pixel characteristics of an image.
14. The X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 13, further comprising a second signal generating unit configured to generate a second stop signal for stopping the X-ray radiation from the X-ray source based on information different from the dose detected by each of the pixels for dose detection within the use pixel region.
15. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 14, wherein the information different from the dose detected is information on the radiography target, information on radiographic conditions or information on a plurality of modes.
16. The X-ray exposure control device according to claim 14 or 15, further comprising at least a notification unit configured to notify which type of signal is issued, the stop signal based on the dose detected by each of the pixels for dose detection within the use pixel region or the second stop signal based on the information different from the dose detected by each of the pixels for dose detection.
17. An X-ray image detection apparatus comprising: the X-ray exposure control device according to any one of claims 1 to 16; and an X-ray image detection unit configured to detect X-rays having passed through the radiography target between start of the X-ray radiation from the X-ray source and radiation stop, thereby detecting an X-ray image of the radiography target.
18. The X-ray image detection apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the X-ray image detection unit comprises an X-ray image detection element including a plurality of X-ray image detection pixels for detecting the X-rays having passed through the radiography target between the start of the X-ray radiation from the X-ray source and the radiation stop.
19. The X-ray image detection apparatus according to claim 18,
wherein the X-ray image detection element is integrated with the X-ray detection element, and
wherein the plurality of pixels for dose detection have a configuration different from the plurality of X-ray image detection pixels and are incorporated between the plurality of X-ray image detection pixels or
wherein the X-ray image detection element is a non-destructive readable element and some of the plurality of X-ray image detection pixels double as the plurality of pixels for dose detection.
20. An X-ray imaging system comprising: an X-ray source for radiating X-rays; and the X-ray image detection apparatus according to any one of claims 17 to 19, wherein the X-ray source receives a start signal of the X-ray radiation from an external apparatus or the X-ray image detection apparatus to start the X-ray radiation, and receives the stop signal of the X-ray radiation from the X-ray image detection apparatus to stop the X-ray radiation.
</claims>
</document>
