<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HALL, SIMON
JACQUOT, ADRIEN
SCHIOPU, VITALIE
VAN DEN HEUVEL, JEROEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62217733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SELF-LEARNING ROBOTIC PROCESS AUTOMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for a self-learning robotic process automation are disclosed. In one aspect, a method includes receiving an automated script that includes one or more commands and that is configured to interact with graphical elements that appear on a user interface. The method further includes executing a command of the one or more commands of the automated script. The method further includes determining that an error occurred during execution of the command of the one or more commands of the automated script. The method further includes determining a modification for the command by applying a script repair model. The method further includes executing the modified command. The method further includes determining whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command. The method further includes determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computing device (400; 450), an automated script that includes one or more commands and that is configured to interact with graphical elements that appear on a user interface (100a; 100b; 100c; 100d); executing, by the computing device, a command of the one or more commands of the automated script; determining, by the computing device, that an error occurred during execution of the command of the one or more commands of the automated script; in response to determining that an error occurred during execution of the command, determining, by the computing device, a modification for the command by applying, to the command, a script repair model that is trained using one or more automated scripts that each include commands and results that correspond to each command; executing, by the computing device, the modified command; determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command; and based on determining whether the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command, determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command comprises:
determining that the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command, determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command comprises:
determining not to update the automated script with the modified command, and the method comprises:
determining, by the computing device, an additional modification for the command based on the application of the script repair model to the command.
3. The method of claim 2, comprising:
based on determining that the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command, updating the script repair model using data indicating that the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command.
4. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein: determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command comprises:
determining that the error or the other error did not occur during execution of the modified command, determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command comprises:
determining to update the automated script with the modified command.
5. The method of claim 4, comprising:
determining that the error or the other error did not occur during execution of the modified command, updating the script repair model using data indicating that the error or the other error did not occur during execution of the modified command.
6. The method of claim 4 or 5, comprising: identifying another automated script that includes another command that corresponds with the command of the automated script; and updating the other command of the other automated script with the modified command.
7. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein: executing the command of the one or more commands of the automated script comprises: analyzing, using computer vision, a screen capture of the user interface; based on analyzing the screen capture of the user interface, identifying, in the user interface, an area of the screen that matches a graphical element that is specified by the automated script; and selecting, by the computing device, the area of the screen that matches the graphical element that is specified by the automated script, and determining the modification for the command comprises:
adjusting a size of the area of the screen that matches the graphical element that is specified by the automated script.
8. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein determining, by the computing device, a modification for the command by applying, to the command, a script repair model that is trained using one or more automated scripts that each include commands and results that correspond to each command comprises: classifying, by the script repair model, the error that occurred during execution of the command of the one or more commands of the automated script; and based on the classification of the error, determining the modification for the command by applying, to the command, the script repair model.
9. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein: executing, by the computing device, the modified command comprises:
simulating, by the computing device, the modified command, and determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command comprises:
determining whether the error or the other error occurred during simulation of the modified command.
10. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein determining, by the computing device, a modification for the command by applying, to the command, a script repair model that is trained using one or more automated scripts that each include commands and results that correspond to each command comprises: determining, by applying the script repair model to the command, for each of one or more candidate modifications, a repair confidence score that reflects a likelihood that applying a respective candidate modification to the command will correct the error; and based on the repair confidence scores, selecting, from among the one or more candidate modifications, the modification for the command.
11. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command comprises:
determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command using machine learning.
12. A system (100) comprising: one or more computers; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a computing device (400; 450), an automated script that includes one or more commands and that is configured to interact with graphical elements that appear on a user interface (100a; 100b; 100c; 10Od); executing, by the computing device, a command of the one or more commands of the automated script; determining, by the computing device, that an error occurred during execution of the command of the one or more commands of the automated script; in response to determining that an error occurred during execution of the command, determining, by the computing device, a modification for the command by applying, to the command, a script repair model that is trained using one or more automated scripts that each include commands and results that correspond to each command; executing, by the computing device, the modified command; determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command; and based on determining whether the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command, determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions are operable, when executed by the one or more computers, to cause the one or more computers to perform operations defined in one or more of claims 2 to 11.
14. Computer program instructions executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a computing device (400; 450), an automated script that includes one or more commands and that is configured to interact with graphical elements that appear on a user interface (100a; 100b; 100c; 100d); executing, by the computing device, a command of the one or more commands of the automated script; determining, by the computing device, that an error occurred during execution of the command of the one or more commands of the automated script; in response to determining that an error occurred during execution of the command, determining, by the computing device, a modification for the command by applying, to the command, a script repair model that is trained using one or more automated scripts that each include commands and results that correspond to each command; executing, by the computing device, the modified command; determining, by the computing device, whether the error or another error occurred during execution of the modified command; and based on determining whether the error or the other error occurred during execution of the modified command, determining whether to update the automated script with the modified command.
15. The computer program instructions of claim 14, wherein upon execution of the computer program instructions, such execution causes the one or more computers to perform operations as defined in one or more of claims 2 to 11.
</claims>
</document>
