<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06F21/30,G06F21/32,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAEHLER, ADRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59898990
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
HEAD MOUNTED DISPLAY SYSTEM CONFIGURED TO EXCHANGE BIOMETRIC INFORMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Head mounted display systems configured to facilitate the exchange of biometric information between the head mounted display system and another computing device are disclosed. The head mounted display system can comprise a virtual or augmented reality device. After displaying a consent request regarding biometric information with the head mounted display system, a response to the consent request that includes a consent indication regarding an aspect of the biometric information can be determined. After obtaining biometric information from a wearer utilizing e.g., a camera of the head mounted display, and processing the biometric information, a biometric information processing result can be generated. The result can be communicated from the head mounted display system to another computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A head mounted display system comprising: an image capture device (452) configured to capture eye images of an eye; a display (208) configured to display virtual images to the eye (302, 304, 410) of a wearer (204) of the head mounted display (200, 400, 710); and a hardware processor (224, 228, 450) programmed to: obtain the eye images of the wearer captured by the image capture device; determine biometric information of the wearer based at least in part on the eye images, wherein the biometric information is associated with physiological or behavioral characteristics of the wearer; display a user interface comprising a popup (824) including a consent request that includes a plurality of consent categories for the biometric information, wherein the plurality of consent categories includes a first consent category and a second consent category, and wherein the popup includes interactive buttons that are configured to receive input from the wearer indicating consent to share at least a portion of the biometric information; receive a response to the consent request, wherein the response includes a consent indication from the wearer; in response to a determination that the consent indication indicates that the wearer has not agreed to the first consent category, suppress transmission of biometric information that is associated with the first consent category, and in response to a determination that the consent indication indicates that the wearer has agreed to the second consent category, transmit, to an acquirer device, the biometric information that is associated with the second consent category.
2. The head mounted display system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of consent categories for biometric information of the wearer comprises at least one of an offer category, a partial sharing category, a complete sharing category, or any combination thereof.
3. The head mounted display system of claim 2, wherein the second consent category corresponds to the complete sharing category.
4. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 2-3, wherein the partial sharing category includes sharing of the biometric information regarding an item brand or an item product in a retail store.
5. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 1-4,
wherein to transmit the biometric information in response to the request for biometric information from the biometric information acquirer computing device, the hardware processor is further programmed to:
transmit a portion of the biometric information obtained based at least partly on the second consent category.
6. The head mounted display system of claim 5, wherein the biometric information corresponds to at least one of eye patterns, eye movements, eye fixations, or eye browsing history.
7. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 5-6, wherein to determine the biometric information, the hardware processor is further programmed to: perform a pose estimation or iris code generation using the eye images.
8. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 1-7, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to: in response to receiving the consent indication, display a plurality of biometric exchange offers utilizing the head mounted display, wherein the plurality of biometric exchange offers comprises offers associated with biometric information regarding items from an electronic catalog or biometric information based on a location of the wearer of the head mounted display system.
9. The head mounted display system of claim 8, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to:
filter the plurality of biometric exchange offers based on a threshold exchange rate.
10. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 8-9, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to:
filter the plurality of biometric exchange offers based on an exclusion of an aspect of biometric information, wherein the exclusion is specified by the wearer of the head mounted display system.
11. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 1-10, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to:
filter the plurality of biometric exchange offers based on an inclusion of an aspect of an offer, wherein the inclusion is specified by the wearer of the head mounted display system.
12. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 1-11, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to:
process the eye images captured by the image capture device to obtain a behavioral characteristic regarding the wearer of the head mounted display system.
13. The head mounted display system of claim 12, wherein the behavioral characteristic regarding the wearer comprises an item brand or an item product in a retail store looked at by the eye of the wearer in the eye images determined using the plurality of outside-world images.
14. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 12-13, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to: display a second consent request regarding the obtained behavioral characteristic utilizing the head mounted display system; and in response to receiving the response to the second consent request regarding the obtained behavioral characteristic, display a second plurality of biometric exchange offers utilizing the head mounted display, wherein the second plurality of biometric exchange offers comprises: offers associated with biometric information regarding items from an electronic catalog, offers associated with biometric information based on a location of the wearer of the head mounted display system, offers associated with behavioral characteristics of the wearer of the head mounted display system, or any combination thereof.
15. The head mounted display system of any one of claims 1-14, wherein the display: comprises a plurality of stacked waveguides, is configured to present a light field image to the wearer, or is configured to present a plurality of depth planes to the wearer.
</claims>
</document>
