<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S15/04,G01S15/32,G01S15/34,G01S15/52,G01S15/58,G01S15/88,G01S7/521,G06F3/041
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELLIPTIC LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BØRSTAD, THOMAS
KAVLI, TOM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55642041
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
PROXIMITY DETECTION
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device (1) such as a cell phone, or a proximity detector for an electronic device (1), has an ultrasound transmitter (5), an ultrasound receiver (6), and a processing system. It transmits an ultrasonic sine-wave signal from the transmitter (5), and receives the ultrasonic sine-wave signal, through air, at the receiver (6). It detects when the frequency of the transmitted signal and a frequency of the received signal satisfy a predetermined difference criterion, and uses this to determine whether to disable or enable a touch or touchless input (2) on the device (1).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device (1) arranged to: transmit an ultrasonic sine-wave signal continuously or at intervals; and disable or enable a touch or touchless input of the electronic device (1) in response to determining the presence of an object (7), characterised in that the electronic device is further arranged to: transmit second ultrasonic signals at intervals, the second ultrasonic signals having a greater bandwidth than the ultrasonic sine-wave signal; use both the sine-wave signal and the second ultrasonic signals to determine the presence of an object (7) satisfying a predetermined proximity test by receiving a reflection of the sine-wave signal from the object at the electronic device and using the reflected sine-wave signal to detect movement of the object, and by receiving reflections of the second ultrasonic signals from the object at the electronic device and using the reflected second ultrasonic signals to determine distance information relating to the object; and disable or enable the touch or touchless input of the electronic device (1) in response to determining the presence of an object (7) satisfying the predetermined proximity test.
2. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 1, wherein the transmitted sine-wave signal does not overlap the second ultrasonic signals in frequency.
3. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 1 or 2, arranged to transmit the sine-wave signal continuously for at least one second.
4. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 1 or 2, arranged to transmit the sine-wave signal at intervals, for durations of between one and a hundred milliseconds.
5. An electronic device (1) as claimed in any preceding claim, arranged to: store reference data derived from signals received by the electronic device in a reference buffer; compare data derived from a subsequently-received ultrasonic signal with the stored reference data to determine whether the received signal satisfies a predetermined difference criterion; and use said difference determination when determining the presence of an object (7) satisfying the predetermined proximity test.
6. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 5, wherein the reference data is derived from received signals arising from the transmission of the second ultrasonic signals.
7. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 5 or 6, arranged to use the sine-wave signal to detect an onset of the predetermined proximity test being satisfied, and arranged to use a comparison with the stored reference data to detect an ending of the predetermined proximity test being satisfied.
8. An electronic device (1) as claimed in any of claims 1-7, comprising an ultrasound transmitter (5), an ultrasound receiver (6), and a processing system, the electronic device (1) being arranged to: transmit the ultrasonic sine-wave signal from the ultrasound transmitter (5); receive the reflected ultrasonic sine-wave signal, through air, at the ultrasound receiver (6); transmit the second ultrasonic signals from the ultrasound transmitter (5); receive the reflected second ultrasonic signals, through air, at the ultrasound receiver (6), arising from the second ultrasonic signals; use the received reflected second ultrasonic signals arising from the second ultrasonic signals to determine data representative of a distance to an acoustically-reflective surface spaced away from the electronic device (1); detect when the frequency of the ultrasonic sine-wave signal as transmitted by the electronic device (1) and a frequency of the reflected ultrasonic sine-wave signal as received by the electronic device (1) satisfy a predetermined difference criterion; use such a detection and said distance data to determine whether to disable the touch or touchless input on the electronic device (1), or to use such a detection and said distance data to determine whether to enable the touch or touchless input on the electronic device (1); and disable or enable the touch or touchless input of the electronic device (1) according to said determination.
9. An electronic device (1) as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the electronic device (1) is a cell phone.
10. An electronic device (1) as claimed in claim 8, wherein the electronic device (1) is a cell phone and wherein: the ultrasound transmitter (5) is a loudspeaker that is capable of emitting audible frequencies and the electronic device (1) is arranged to use the loudspeaker to emit voice signals during a telephone call; and the ultrasound receiver (6) is a microphone that is capable of receiving audible frequencies and the electronic device (1) is arranged to use the microphone to receive voice signals during a telephone call.
11. An electronic device (1) as claimed in any preceding claim, arranged to receive the reflected ultrasonic sine-wave signal at the same time as transmitting the ultrasonic sine-wave signal.
12. An electronic device (1) as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein each second ultrasonic signal is a pulse or a chirp.
13. A method of disabling or enabling a touch or touchless input, the method comprising: transmitting an ultrasonic sine-wave signal continuously or at intervals; and disabling or enabling a touch or touchless input in response to determining the presence of the object (7), characterised by: transmitting second ultrasonic signals at intervals, the second ultrasonic signals having a greater bandwidth than the ultrasonic sine-wave signal; using the sine-wave signal and the second ultrasonic signals together to determine the presence of an object (7) satisfying a predetermined proximity test by receiving a reflection of the sine-wave signal from the object and using the reflected sine-wave signal to detect movement of the object, and by receiving reflections of the second ultrasonic signals from the object and using the reflected second ultrasonic signals to determine distance information relating to the object; and disabling or enabling the touch or touchless input in response to determining the presence of the object (7) satisfying the predetermined proximity test.
14. A method as claimed in claim 13, comprising transmitting the ultrasonic sine-wave signal continuously for at least one second.
15. Computer software which, when executed on an electronic device (1) as claimed in any of claims 1 to 12, causes the electronic device (1) to: transmit an ultrasonic sine-wave signal continuously or at intervals; and disable or enable a touch or touchless input of the electronic device (1) in response to determining the presence of an object (7), characterised in that the computer software causes the electronic device (1) to: transmit second ultrasonic signals at intervals, the second ultrasonic signals having a greater bandwidth than the ultrasonic sine-wave signal; use both the sine-wave signal and the second ultrasonic signals to determine the presence of an object (7) satisfying a predetermined proximity test by receiving a reflection of the sine-wave signal from the object and using the reflected sine-wave signal to detect movement of the object, and by receiving reflections of the second ultrasonic signals from the object and using the reflected second ultrasonic signals to determine distance information relating to the object; and disable or enable a touch or touchless input of the electronic device (1) in response to determining the presence of an object (7) satisfying the predetermined proximity test.
</claims>
</document>
