<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BP EXPLORATION OPERATING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGNES, TOMMY
THIRUVENKATANATHAN, PRADYUMNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60000581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING DOWNHOLE EVENTS USING ACOUSTIC FREQUENCY DOMAIN FEATURES
</title>

<abstract>
A method of detecting an event within a wellbore includes obtaining a sample data set, determining a plurality of frequency domain features of the sample data set, comparing the plurality of frequency domain features with an event signature, determining that the plurality of frequency domain features matches the thresholds, ranges, or both of the event signature, and determining the presence of the event within the wellbore based on determining that the plurality of frequency domain features match the thresholds, ranges, or both of the event signature. The sample data set is a sample of an acoustic signal originating within a wellbore comprising a fluid, and the sample data set is representative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum. The event signature comprises a plurality of thresholds, ranges, or both corresponding to the plurality of frequency domain features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system (100) for processing wellbore data, the system comprising:
a receiver unit (160) comprising a processor (168) and a memory (170), wherein the receiver unit (160) is configured to receive a signal from a sensor (162) disposed in a wellbore (114), wherein a processing application is stored in the memory (170), and wherein the processing application, when executed on the processor (168), configures the processor (168) to: receive the signal from the sensor (162), wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more depths within the wellbore (114), wherein the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; determine a plurality of frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features comprise at least two different frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum received from at least one depth of the one or more depths; and generate an output comprising the plurality of frequency domain features.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: the sensor (162), wherein the sensor comprises a fiber optic cable disposed within the wellbore (114); and an optical generator (166) coupled to the fiber optic cable, wherein the optical generator (166) is configured to generate a light beam and pass the light beam into the fiber optic cable.
3. A method for processing wellbore data, the method comprising: receiving a signal from a sensor (162) disposed in a wellbore (114), wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more depths within the wellbore (114), wherein the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum; determining a plurality of frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features comprise at least two different frequency domain features of the signal across the frequency spectrum received from at least one depth of the one or more depths; and generating an output comprising the plurality of frequency domain features.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the sensor (162) comprises a fiber optic cable disposed within the wellbore (114), and wherein the method further comprises: generating, with an optical generator (166) coupled to the fiber optic cable, a light beam; and passing the light beam into the fiber optic cable.
5. The system or method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise at least two of: a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, an RMS band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, or a spectral autocorrelation function.
6. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral centroid, and wherein the spectral centroid is indicative of a center of mass of the frequency spectrum of the acoustic signal.
7. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral spread, wherein the spectral spread is indicative of an energy distribution of the acoustic signal around a spectral centroid.
8. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral roll-off, wherein the spectral roll-off is indicative of a frequency band comprising a predetermined percentage of a magnitude of signal strengths across the frequency spectrum.
9. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral skewness, wherein the spectral skewness is indicative of a symmetry of a distribution of spectral magnitude values around an arithmetic mean of the spectral magnitude values.
10. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise an RMS band energy, wherein the RMS band energy is a measure of signal energy of the signal in predetermined frequency bands across the frequency spectrum.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the signal energy in each frequency band of the predetermined frequency bands is a normalized energy based on a total RMS energy across the frequency spectrum.
12. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a total RMS energy, wherein the total RMS energy comprises a root mean square of a waveform of the signal calculated in the time domain.
13. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral flatness, wherein the spectral flatness is a ratio of a geometric mean to an arithmetic mean of an energy spectrum value of the signal.
14. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral slope, wherein the spectral slope comprises a linear approximation of a shape of the spectrum of the signal.
15. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral kurtosis, wherein the spectral kurtosis comprises an indication of a flatness of the spectrum around a mean of the spectrum in the signal.
16. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral flux, wherein the spectral flux is a measure of a change in spectral magnitude summed across at least a portion of frequencies present in the signal between successive determinations of the frequency domain features.
17. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the signal comprise a spectral autocorrelation function, wherein the spectral autocorrelation function is indicative of a lag of the signal that maximizes the correlation between the signal and a shifted signal.
18. The system or method of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the signal comprises a first data size, wherein the output comprises a second data size, and wherein the first data size is greater than the second data size.
</claims>
</document>
