<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Delseni Holding B.V.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLEEVEN, ANTONIUS MARIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57737936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A DEVICE AND METHOD FOR THERMAL IMAGING OF A LIVING MAMMAL BODY SECTION
</title>

<abstract>
A device (10) of and a method for obtaining thermal images of a living mammal body section. The device comprises a thermal energy storage surface structure (18) for contacting the body section. In a calibration mode of operation, the thermal energy storage surface structure (18) is brought at a reference temperature by transferring thermal energy to the thermal energy storage surface structure (18) from a thermal energy transfer module (21) that is controlled by a control circuit (30) for restraining thermal energy transfer by the thermal energy transfer module (21) in the presence of the body section (35) at the thermal energy storage surface structure (18). In a registration mode of operation, by a thermal sensor (19), thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of the thermal energy storage surface structure (18) are obtained, with the body section contacting the thermal energy storage surface structure (18). From a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a region of interest is determined, based on storage of thermal energy by the thermal energy storage surface structure (18).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device (10) for obtaining thermal images of a living mammal body section (35), said device comprising: - a thermal energy storage surface structure (18) for contacting said body section (35), - a thermal sensor (19) for obtaining thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) in a registration mode of operation of said device, - a thermal energy transfer module (21) for transferring thermal energy to said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) for bringing same at a reference temperature in a calibration mode of operation of said device, characterised in that the device further comprises: - a control circuit (30) arranged for monitoring presence of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) and for controlling thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module (21) in said calibration mode in the presence of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) for restraining thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module (21) to said body section (35).
2. The device (10) according to claim 1, wherein said thermal energy transfer module (21) has a limited thermal energy generation capacity matched to a thermal absorption capacity of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at said reference temperature in the absence of a body section (35).
3. The device (10) according to any of the previous claims, wherein said control circuit (30) operates at least one of a group including: - a proximity detector (27) for detecting proximity of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), - a contact detector (28) for detecting physical contact of a body section (35) with said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and - a thermal energy transfer detector (29) for detecting deviation of thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module.
4. The device (10) according to any of the previous claims, wherein said control circuit (30) further comprises a data processing device (31) operatively connected to said thermal energy transfer module (21), said processing device (31) being arranged for: - operating said thermal energy transfer module (21) for transferring thermal energy by said thermal energy transfer module (21) to said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) for bringing same at said reference temperature in said calibration mode in the absence of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure monitored by said control circuit, - operating said thermal energy transfer module (21) for restraining thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module (21) in said calibration mode in the presence of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) monitored by said control circuit (30), and - operating said thermal sensor (19) in said registration mode when said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) is at said reference temperature.
5. The device (10) according to claim 4, further comprising a signalling module (32), operatively connected to said processing device (31), for signalling operation in said calibration mode and operation in said registration mode, respectively, in particular for operating said thermal sensor (19) in said registration mode while said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) is storing thermal energy from a body section (35) monitored by said control circuit (30), and for indicating completion of obtaining said thermal images.
6. The device (10) according to any of the previous claims, wherein said thermal sensor (19) is a multipoint thermal sensor, in particular a digital pixel type thermal imaging camera remotely arranged from said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), for obtaining time consecutive thermal images over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), in particular a camera having a spatial resolution being a fraction of a region of interest to be determined.
7. The device (10) according to claim 6, wherein said thermal sensor (19) is operatively connected to the data processing device (31) of any of claims 4, 5 or operatively connectable to a further data processing device for processing obtained thermal images and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a heat absorption rate over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and wherein a region of interest is determined based on whether said heat absorption rate complies to a set profile of heat absorption rate values, in particular wherein said heat absorption rate is calculated as a temperature gradient over time.
8. The device (10) according to claim 6 or 7, wherein said thermal sensor (19) is operatively connected to the data processing device (31) of any of claims 4, 5 or operatively connectable to a further data processing device for processing obtained thermal images and arranged for determining a region of interest by calculating, from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, temperature differences over at least part of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and wherein a region of interest is determined based on whether said temperature differences comply to a set profile of temperature differences.
9. The device (10) according to claim 7 or 8, wherein the data processing device (31) is arranged for determining said region of interest by calculating a shape and size of an area of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at which said heat absorption rate and/or temperature differences complies to a set profile.
10. The device (10) according to claim 7, 8 or 9, wherein said thermal sensor (19) is a digital pixel type thermal imaging camera and the data processing device (31) is arranged for calculating said heat absorption rate and/or temperature differences on a pixel basis or from a group of adjacent pixels.
11. The device (10) according to claim 7, 8, 9 or 10, wherein said data processing device (31) is arranged for exchanging data of a determined region of interest or for determining a region of interest with a digital knowledge base, either a remote or device local knowledge base, said knowledge base comprising information in support of a region of interest.
12. The device (10) according to any of the previous claims, wherein said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) comprises a thermal energy storage plate or foil, having a flat or curved surface shape, in particular an opaque thermal energy storage plate or foil.
13. The device according to any of the previous claims, wherein said thermal energy transfer module (21) comprises a movably arranged heat conducting plate (22), having a surface shape adapted for thermally contacting said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and a thermogenerator (23) for bringing said heat conducting plate (22) at a temperature for exchanging heat with said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) when in thermal contact therewith, for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at said reference temperature, in particular wherein said thermal energy transfer module (21) comprises a heatsink (24) arranged opposite said heat conducting plate (22) and said thermogenerator (23) comprises a plurality of thermoelectric components (25) distributed across said heatsink (24).
14. The device (10) according to any of the previous claims, wherein said thermal energy transfer module (21) is arranged for bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at a reference temperature in a range of 20 - 30 °C, preferably in a range of 24 - 26 °C.
15. A method of determining a region of interest of a living mammal body section (35) based on thermal imaging, said method comprising a calibration mode of operation for bringing a thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at a reference temperature by transferring thermal energy to said energy storage surface structure (18) by a thermal energy transfer module (21), and a registration mode of operation, following said calibration mode of operation, for obtaining thermal images reflecting thermal energy storage over at least a portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), said method controlled by a data processing device (31) comprising the steps of: - in said calibration mode of operation: - detecting (30) presence of a body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and - if present, controlling thermal energy transfer by said thermal energy transfer module (21) for restraining thermal energy transfer to said body section (35), - if absent, bringing said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) at said reference temperature, - in said registration mode of operation: - obtaining time consecutive thermal images of said portion of said thermal energy storage surface structure (18) while storing thermal energy from said body section (35) at said thermal energy storage surface structure (18), and - calculating (31), from a series of time consecutive thermal images obtained, a region of interest based on storage of thermal energy by said thermal energy storage surface structure (18).
</claims>
</document>
