<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B90/00,A61F2/958,G06T5/50,G06T7/00,G06T7/12,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLORENT, RAOUL
AUVRAY, VINCENT MAURICE ANDRÉ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63014473
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STENT POSITIONING
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to positioning of stents or other medical interventional devices. In order to provide an improved marker detection suitable for smaller markers, a device (10) for positioning a medical interventional device is provided. The device comprises a data input interface (12), a data processing unit (14) and a data output interface (16). The data input interface is configured to provide at least one image of a region of interest of a subject. In the at least one image, at least a part of a guiding apparatus for a medical interventional device is arranged in the region of interest, which part of the guiding apparatus comprises at least one apparatus position marker visible in the at least one image. Further, in the at least one image, a medical interventional device is arranged at least partly in the region of interest, which medical interventional device comprises device position markers, which are less visible in the image than the at least one apparatus position marker. The data processing unit is configured to detect the at least one apparatus position marker in the at least one image, and to define a proximity region in the at least one image based on the at least one apparatus position marker, and to select the proximity region, to detect the device position markers in the proximity region, and to enhance the device position markers in the at least one image for supporting a positioning of the medical interventional device. The data output interface is configured to provide the at least one image with the enhanced device position markers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device (10) for supporting the positioning of a medical interventional device, comprising: - a data input interface (12); - a data processing unit (14); and - a data output interface (16); wherein the data input interface is configured to provide at least one image of a region of interest of a subject; wherein, in the at least one image, at least a part of a guiding apparatus for a medical interventional device is arranged in the region of interest, which part of the guiding apparatus comprises at least one apparatus position marker visible in the at least one image; and wherein, in the at least one image, a medical interventional device is arranged at least partly in the region of interest, which medical interventional device comprises device position markers, which are less visible in the image than the at least one apparatus position marker;
wherein the data processing unit is configured: to detect the at least one apparatus position marker in the at least one image; and to define a proximity region in the at least one image based on the at least one apparatus position marker; and to select the proximity region, to detect the device position markers in the proximity region, and to enhance the device position markers in the at least one image for supporting a positioning of the medical interventional device; and
wherein the data output interface is configured to provide the at least one image with the enhanced device position markers.
2. Device according to claim 1, wherein the data input interface is configured to provide the at least one image with a stent as the medical interventional device arranged at least partly in the region of interest.
3. Device according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a display unit (22) is provided configured to present the at least one image of a region of interest with enhanced device position markers.
4. Device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the data processing unit is configured to define the proximity region as an area around the at least one apparatus position marker.
5. Device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the guiding apparatus comprises at least one of a guidewire, a balloon and a catheter; and
wherein the data processing unit is configured to define the proximity region as an image area with a longitudinal expansion direction along the guiding apparatus.
6. Device according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the data input interface is configured to provide a sequence of images;
the data processing unit is configured to detect the at least one apparatus position marker, to define a proximity region based on the at least one apparatus position marker; to select the proximity region, and to detect the device position markers in the proximity region for each of the images;
wherein the data processing unit is also configured to temporally consolidate the images based on the respectively detected device position markers, which provides a temporal boost of the images; and
wherein the data processing unit is configured to center the images relative to each other based on i) the detected device position markers; or ii) the at least one detected apparatus position marker.
7. A medical imaging system (30), comprising: - an imaging device (32) with an X-ray source (36) and an X-ray detector (38); and - a device (34) according to one of the preceding claims; wherein the imaging device is configured to generate the at least one image of a region of interest of a subject; and
wherein, preferably, the images are fluoroscopic images.
8. Medical imaging system according to claim 7, wherein the system further comprises a guiding apparatus (44) for a medical interventional device, the guiding apparatus comprising the at least one apparatus position marker; and
wherein, the system further comprises a stent to be deployed as a medical interventional device the stent comprising stent position markers; and wherein the guiding apparatus is a stent guiding device and the at least one apparatus position marker is at least one guiding device position marker.
9. Medical imaging system according to claim 8, wherein the stent guiding device is a balloon device to which the to-be-deployed stent is attached;
wherein the at least one guiding device position marker is a balloon marker; and
wherein the data processing unit is configured to define the proximity region based on the at least one balloon marker.
10. A method (100) for supporting the positioning of a medical interventional device, comprising the following steps: a) providing (102) at least one image of a region of interest of a subject;
wherein, in the at least one image, at least a part of a guiding apparatus for the medical interventional device is arranged in the region of interest, which part of the guiding apparatus comprises at least one apparatus position marker visible in the at least one image; and
wherein, in the at least one image, a medical interventional device is arranged at least partly in the region of interest, which medical interventional device comprises device position markers, which are less visible in the image than the at least one guiding apparatus marker; b1) detecting (104) the at least one apparatus position marker in the at least one image; b2) defining (106) a proximity region in the at least one image based on the at least one apparatus position marker; c1) selecting (108) the proximity region; c2) detecting (110) the device position markers in the proximity region; and d) enhanceing (112) the device position markers in the at least one image for supporting a positioning of the medical interventional device.
11. Method according to claim 10, wherein a sequence of images is provided (128);
wherein steps b1) to c2) are provided for at least a part of the images of the sequence; and
wherein, before step d), a step is provided in which the images are temporally registered (130) based on the respectively detected device position markers, which provides a temporal boost of the images.
12. Method according to claim 11, wherein the images are centered relative to each other based on: i) the detected device position markers; or ii) the at least one detected apparatus position marker.
13. A computer program element for controlling an apparatus according to one of the claims 1 to 9, which, when being executed by a processing unit, is adapted to perform the method steps of one of the claims 10 to 12.
14. A computer readable medium having stored the program element of claim 13.
</claims>
</document>
