<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B71/06,A63C19/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GÓDOR, ISTVÁN
FITER, BRUNO
BJÖRKLUND, LINUS
SANDSTRÖM, BJÖRN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58410248
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LINE FAULT DETECTION SYSTEMS AND METHOD FOR DETERMINING WHETHER A SPORT GAMING DEVICE HAS BOUNCED OFF AN AREA OF A SPORTS FIELD
</title>

<abstract>
We generally describe an audio-based line fault detection system for a sports game. The audio-based line fault detection system comprises one or more audio sensors (102) for sensing an audio signal generated by a sports gaming device bouncing off a sports field. The sports field comprises surface modifications applied to a line and/or an area adjacent to the line on the sports field such that the generated audio signal is dependent on whether or not the sports gaming device bounces off the sports field where the surface modifications are applied. The detection system is configured to generate a sound profile from the audio signal sensed by the one or more audio sensors (102). The detection system is further configured to identify a bounce type based on the sound profile, wherein the bounce type is defined by whether or not the sports gaming device has bounced off the sports field where the surface modifications are applied.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (800) carried out by a computer system (900) for determining whether a sports gaming device has bounced off an area of a sports field, wherein the area comprises surface modifications such that an audio signal generated by the sports gaming device bouncing off the sports field is dependent on whether or not the sports gaming device has bounced off the area of the sports field on which the surface modifications have been applied, wherein the surface modifications are indents or elevations having a size below a predefined threshold, such that a trajectory of the sports gaming device is not influenced by the presence of the surface modifications when the sports gaming device bounces off the sports field, the method comprising: sensing (802) an audio signal generated by the sports gaming device bouncing off the sports field; generating (804) a sound profile from the sensed audio signal; and identifying (806) a bounce type based on the generated sound profile, wherein the bounce type is defined by whether or not the sports gaming device has bounced off the sports field where the surface modifications have been applied.
2. An audio-based line fault detection system (100, 1002, 900) comprising a processor (902) configured to perform the steps of the method of claim 1.
3. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 2, further comprising a sound profiler (110) coupled to one or more audio sensors (102), wherein the sound profiler (110) is configured to generate the sound profile from the audio signal sensed by the one or more audio sensors (102);
and a bounce type identifier (114) coupled to the sound profiler (110), wherein the bounce type identifier (114) is configured to identify the bounce type based on the sound profile.
4. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 2 or 3, wherein: - one or more audio sensors (102) are directed substantially towards the surface modifications; and/or - the processor is further configured to generate a plurality of sound profiles, wherein one of the sound profiles is generated from the audio signal sensed by a corresponding, respective one of the audio sensors; and wherein the processor is further configured to: -- select one or more of the sound profiles based on one or more characteristics of at least one of the audio signals and the sound profiles, and -- identify the bounce type based on the selected sound profile.
5. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein: (a) the processor is further configured to determine whether there is a line fault or not based on at least one of a status and a mode of the sports game and based on the bounce type; and/or (b) when dependent on claim 2, the audio-based line fault detection system further comprises a bounce profile database (116) coupled to the bounce type identifier (114), wherein the bounce profile database (116) is configured to store one or more characteristics of one or more bounce types, and wherein the bounce type identifier (114) is further configured to identify the bounce type based on the one or more characteristics of the one or more bounce types; and/or (c) the audio-based line fault detection system further comprises a bounce type learning unit (112) which is configured to learn, based on the sound profile, what bounce type was identified; and/or (d) the audio-based line fault detection system further comprises one or more optical sensors configured to capture at least one of a video and images of at least a part of the sports field, and a frame selector (106) coupled to the one or more optical sensors (104), wherein the frame selector (106) is configured to extract at least one of a frame from the video and a sequence from the images, and wherein at least one of the frame and sequence comprises parts of the video or images captured before and after the sports gaming device bouncing off the sports field; and/or (e) one or both of the generating of the sound profile and the identifying of the bounce type are cloud-based; and/or (f) when dependent on claim 2, the one or more audio sensors (102) are configured to provide the sensed audio signal to the sound profiler (110) in a compressed format.
6. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 5, feature group (a) when dependent on claim 3, further comprising a line fault detector (118) coupled to the bounce type identifier (114), wherein the line fault detector (118) is configured to determine whether there is a line fault or not based on at least one of the status and the mode of the sports game and the bounce type.
7. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 6, further comprising a game status interface (120) configured to indicate at least one of the status and the mode of the sports game and to provide the at least one of the status and the mode of the sports game to the line fault detector (118).
8. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 5, feature group (b), wherein one of the one or more characteristics of the one or more bounce types comprises a plurality of variants for the corresponding bounce type.
9. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 5, feature group (c), when dependent on claim 7, wherein the game status interface (120) is coupled to the bounce type learning unit (112), and wherein the bounce type learning unit (112) is further configured to learn, based on at least one of the status and the mode of the sports game, what bounce type was identified.
10. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 5, feature group (d), when dependent on claim 3, wherein the frame selector (106) is further coupled to at least one of the one or more audio sensors (102) and the sound profiler (110), and wherein the frame selector (106) is configured to extract at least one of the frame from the video and the sequence from the images in response to the audio signal being sensed by at least one of the one or more audio sensors (102) and the sound profile being generated by the sound profiler (110).
11. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 5, feature group (d), or in claim 10, further comprising an analyzer configured to determine, from the frame or sequence, a location on the sports field on which the sports gaming device has bounced off.
12. The audio-based line fault detection system as claimed in claim 11, wherein the analyzer is configured to determine the location on the sports field on which the sports gaming device has bounced off based on an interpolation using the frame extracted from the video or the sequence extracted from the images, and further using speed information of the sports gaming device before and after the bounce.
13. A sports field (200) comprising surface modifications applied to at least one of a line and an area adjacent to the line on the sports field such that an audio signal generated by a sports gaming device bouncing off the sports field is dependent on whether or not the sports gaming device bounces off the sports field where the surface modifications are applied, wherein the surface modifications are indents or elevations having a size below a predefined threshold, such that a trajectory of the sports gaming device is not influenced by the presence of the surface modifications when the sports gaming device bounces off the sports field.
14. A computer program product comprising instructions which, when the program is executed by a computer system (900), cause the computer system to carry out the steps of the method of claim 1.
15. A computer-readable data carrier (904, 908, 910) having stored thereon the computer program product of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
