<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G16B25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITAET ZUERICH
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUT, GABRIELE
PELKMANS, LUCAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62947935
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR CLUSTERING LARGE MULTIPLEXED SPATIALLY RESOLVED DATA OF A BIOLOGICAL SAMPLE
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for processing large multiplexed image data of a biological sample, the method comprising the steps of, recording a plurality of images of a biological sample, wherein the plurality of images comprises images having a different entity of the biological sample targeted with a predefined stain, determining spatially corresponding image pixels in the plurality of registered images, associating the spatially corresponding image pixels to a pixel profile, wherein each pixel profile comprises the pixel values of the spatially corresponding pixels and wherein the pixel profile is associated with the respective image coordinate of the spatially corresponding pixels, pooling the pixel profiles by means of a clustering method configured to determine pixel profiles with similar values, and thereby generating a plurality of clusters, each comprising pixel profiles with similar pixel values, for each cluster assigning a cluster value to the image coordinate of the pixel profiles comprised by said cluster and thereby generating a cluster image with cluster pixels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing multiplexed image data of a biological sample, the method comprising the steps of: a) Recording a plurality of images of a biological sample, wherein the plurality of images comprises images having a different entity of the biological sample targeted with a predefined stain; b) Determining spatially corresponding image pixels in the plurality of registered images; c) Associating the spatially corresponding image pixels to a pixel profile, wherein each pixel profile comprises the pixel values of the spatially corresponding pixels and wherein the pixel profile is associated with the respective image coordinate of the spatially corresponding pixels; d) Pooling the pixel profiles by means of a clustering method configured to determine pixel profiles with similar values, and thereby generating a plurality of clusters, each comprising pixel profiles with similar pixel values; e) For each cluster assigning a cluster value to the image coordinate of the pixel profiles comprised by said cluster and thereby generating a cluster image with cluster pixels.
2. Method according to claim 1, wherein i) For each cluster pixel in the cluster image the cluster values of adjacent cluster pixels in the cluster image are determined and thereby for each cluster value pair a probability of adjacency is determined; ii) Generating at least one randomized cluster image, wherein the image coordinates of the cluster pixels in the at least one randomized cluster image are randomly inter-changed; iii) For each cluster pixel in the at least one randomized cluster image the cluster values of adjacent cluster pixels in the randomized cluster image are determined and thereby for each cluster value pair a probability of random adjacency is determined and wherein the probability of random adjacency is determined for all of the randomized cluster images; iv) Determining an adjusted probability of adjacency by calculating a deviation, particularly a difference between the probability of adjacency and the probability of random adjacency; v) Generating an interaction map, wherein the clusters are arranged at a distance to each other, wherein the distance is indicative to the absolute value of the adjusted probability of adjacency.
3. Method according to claim 2, wherein each cluster in the interaction map is displayed as a geometric shape, wherein a size of the geometric shape is indicative to a relative occurrence of the cluster with respect to the occurrence of the other clusters, and/or wherein the geometric shapes are connected by lines, wherein a negative adjusted probability is reflected in a first line color and a positive adjusted probability is reflected in a second line color.
4. Method according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the clusters are arranged in the interaction map by a dimensionality reduction method, such as a distributed stochastic neighbor embedding (tSNE) method.
5. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of images comprises a first set of images and a second set of images, wherein the first set of images comprises or consists of images of the biological sample under a first experimental condition, such as a control condition, and the second set of images comprises or consists of images of the biological sample under a second experimental condition, wherein the first and second set of images comprise corresponding images that are recorded from the biological sample having the same entity of the biological sample targeted with the same stain.
6. Method according to claim 3 and 5, wherein the relative occurrence of the cluster is determined from the images of the first and second set and wherein a color of the geometric shape is indicative of whether the relative occurrence of the cluster has become smaller or larger under the second experimental condition with respect to the first experimental condition.
7. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the clustering method executes in a first step a self-organizing map method and/or wherein the clustering method executes in second step a graph-based method, such as phenograph, wherein the graph-based method further processes the self-organized map and determines the clusters.
8. Method according to claim 7, wherein the self-organizing map method comprises more than 1000 nodes, particularly more than 2000 nodes.
9. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the biological sample comprises a plurality of biological cells.
10. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of images comprises the biological sample targeted with at least 5 different stains.
11. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein three-dimensional image data is acquired from the sample, wherein the image pixels are voxels.
12. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the biological sample consists of a single cell only or wherein the biological sample is a tissue sample obtained from a subject.
13. Method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the pixel profiles are pooled in at least 20 clusters.
14. Method according to claim 1, wherein a set of buffers comprising - a blocking buffer comprising a blocking compound that is capable of binding to hydrophobic binding sites non-specifically, a sulfhydryl-reactive compound and a buffering component; - an imaging buffer comprising a thiol-containing compound and a pH between 7.2 and 7.6; - an elution buffer comprising a reducing agent, at least one compound disrupting hydrogen bonds, a buffering component and a pH lower than (<) 4; is used for blocking and imaging the biological sample and eluting the stains, particularly stains comprising antibodies, between subsequent imaging steps for generating the plurality of images.
15. A computer program comprising instructions which, when the program is executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
