<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/06,H02J3/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
REACTIVE TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VENTOLA, MIKA
BORRETT, MARC
ALAKONTIOLA, JUKKA
PAJU, VILLE
PELTOLA, TIMO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58073477
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING A CHARACTERISTIC OF AN INERTIAL CONTRIBUTION TO AN ELECTRIC POWER GRID
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, and apparatus for determining a characteristic of an inertial contribution to an electrical power grid are described. A change in inertia in the electrical power grid based on one or more inertia measurements performed in a first time period is determined. On the basis of the determined change in inertia and data indicative of an inertia contribution characteristic of one or more energy production facilities and/or one or more energy consuming devices in the electric power grid, a characteristic of an inertial contribution to the electrical power grid is determined for a second time period different to the first time period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (200) of determining a characteristic of an inertial contribution to an electrical power grid (100), the method (200) comprising: determining (202) a change in inertia in the electrical power grid (100) based on inertia measurements performed in a first time period; and determining (204), for a second time period different to the first time period, a characteristic of an inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) on the basis of the determined change and data indicative of an inertia contribution characteristic of one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or one or more energy consuming devices (118) in the electric power grid (100).
2. A method (200) according to claim 1, wherein the inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) is a contribution provided by the one or more energy production facilities (106) and, optionally,
wherein the characteristic of inertial contribution relates to a proportion of the total electrical energy production in the electrical power grid (100) generated by inertia-contributing energy production facilities (106).
3. A method (200) according to claim 1, wherein the inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) is a contribution provided by the one or more energy consuming devices (118), and, optionally
wherein the characteristic of inertial contribution relates to a proportion of the total electrical energy consumption in the electrical power grid (100) consumed by inertia-contributing energy consuming devices (118).
4. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, comprising: determining a difference in behaviour between the determined change in inertia and a change in total energy consumption in the electrical power grid (100); and determining, on the basis of the identified difference in behaviour, a change in electrical energy provision by the one or more energy production facilities (106), and, optionally wherein the change in electrical energy provision comprises an increase or decrease in electrical energy production.
5. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, wherein the data indicative of one or more inertia contribution characteristics comprises data specifying a nominal rate of change of provision of electrical energy by the one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or a nominal rate of change of consumption of electrical energy by the one or more energy consuming devices (118).
6. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, comprising determining a change in inertia at a first location in the electrical power grid (100) and determining the characteristic of inertial contribution on the basis of a location of the one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or one or more energy consuming devices (118), and, optionally comprising, on the basis of the location data, identifying that a particular inertia-contributing entity is undergoing a change in energy provision or consumption and determining the characteristic of inertial contribution on the basis of an operating characteristic of that entity.
7. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, wherein the determined characteristic of inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) is a predicted future characteristic.
8. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, comprising: generating a model (306) relating changes of inertia to the characteristic of inertial contribution; and applying the determined change in inertia and the data indicative of one or more inertia contribution characteristics to the model (306) to determine the characteristic of inertial contribution.
9. A method (200) according to claim 8, comprising: measuring a set of values of inertia in a first time period; accessing data indicative of a first characteristic of inertial contribution in the first time period; and determining a relationship between the measured set of values of inertia and the first characteristic of inertial contribution.
10. A method (200) according to claim 8, comprising: measuring a set of values of inertia in a first time period; accessing data indicative of a first characteristic of inertial contribution in the first time period; accessing data indicative of a second characteristic of inertial contribution in a second time period; determining a relationship between the set of values measured in the first time period, the first characteristic of inertial contribution, and the second characteristic of inertial contribution; determining parameters of the model based on the determined relationship; and wherein, optionally, the determined relationship is determined at least partly on the basis of a location of the one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or the one or more energy consuming devices (118).
11. A method (200) according to claim 10 , wherein the determined relationship is determined at least partly on the basis of a power generation property of the one or more energy production facilities (106).
12. A method (200) according to any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the model (306) includes one or more of: a machine learning algorithm; a least squares fit; a random forest regression; and a neural network.
13. A method (200) according to any preceding claim, comprising determining a relationship between the determined change in inertia and further data, the further data being indicative of one or more of: weather; time of day; day of the week; month; season; energy tariffs; fuel prices; energy distribution and/or transmission charges; run requests or instructions; curtailment requests or instructions; energy market prices; a change in grid (100) frequency; public events; and television broadcasts.
14. A system for determining a characteristic of inertial contribution to an electrical power grid (100), the system comprising: a measurement means arranged to determine a change in inertia in the electrical power grid (100) based on inertia measurements performed in a first time period; and a processor arranged to determine, for a second time period different to the first time period, a characteristic of an inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) on the basis of the determined change and data indicative of one or more inertia contribution characteristics of one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or one or more energy consuming devices (118) in the electric power grid (100).
15. A computer program which, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: determine a change in inertia in the electrical power grid (100) based on inertia measurements performed in a first time period; determine, for a second time period different to the first time period, a characteristic of an inertial contribution to the electrical power grid (100) on the basis of the determined change and data indicative of one or more inertia contribution characteristics of one or more energy production facilities (106) and/or one or more energy consuming devices (118) in the electric power grid (100).
</claims>
</document>
