<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04W12/12,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUBINSKY, MICHAEL
DAVID, GIL
KRIGSMAN, SIVAN
BE'ERY, TAL ARIEH
PLOTNIK, IDAN
JURGENSON, TOM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60413270
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING IMPOSSIBLE TRAVEL IN THE ON-PREMISE SETTINGS
</title>

<abstract>
Determining impossible travel for a specific user entity associated with an on-premises site. A method includes identifying an estimated location of an on-premises site associated with an organization network. Identifying the estimated location of an on-premises site comprises aggregating connection information of remote devices, remote from the on-premises site connecting to the on-premises site. Information related to an on-premises connection event is identified including the estimated location, time information, and a first user identification for an entity. Information is identified related to a different connection event. The information comprises location information, time information and a second user identification for the entity. The information related to the on-premises connection event and the information related to the different connection event are used to detect impossible travel for the entity. An alert indicating an impossible travel condition is provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media having stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to determine impossible travel for a specific user entity (104-1) associated with an on-premises site (102-1) of an organization network (100), wherein the organization network (100) comprises a plurality of on-premises networks at different locations that share networking resources including a corpus of internal IP addresses each of which can be assigned to a user entity (104-1) connected to the organization network (100) without regard to which on-premises network the user entity (104-1) is connected, so that devices locally connected to the on-premises site (102-1) using the internal IP addresses from the corpus are unlocatable via geolocation, including instructions that are executable to configure the computer system to perform at least the following: identify (302) an estimated location of an on-premises site (102-1) by inferring a geolocation of the on-premises site (102-1) by aggregating geolocations based on external IP addresses of remote devices (104-2), which connect to the on-premises site (102-1) from said external IP addresses, wherein a remote device (104-2) connects to an on-premises site (102-1) that is most proximate geographically to said remote device (104-2); and assign the inferred geolocation as the estimated location of the on-premises site (102-1); identify (304) information related to an on-premises connection event to the on-premises site (102-1) including the estimated location, first time information, and a first user identification for the user entity (104-1); identify (306) information related to a different connection event, where the information comprises location information of the user entity (104-1) attempting the different connection, second time information and a second user identification for the user entity (104-1); and use (308) the information related to the on-premises connection event and the information related to the different connection event, detecting impossible travel for the user entity (104-1); and provide (310) an alert indicating an impossible travel condition.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the different connection event comprises a connection event from a different on-premises site (102-2) associated with the organization network (100).
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the different connection event comprises a connection event from a remote location to a given on-premises site (102-1), but remote from the given on-premises site (102-1).
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the connection event from the remote location comprises a VPN connection.
5. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the connection event from the remote location comprises a connection event using at least one of tunneling protocols, cloud services, or consumer connections, etc.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein one or more computer-readable media further have stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to perform at least the following: pre-processing the information related to the on-premises connection event to create a standardized information set; pre-processing the information related to the different connection event to create a different standardized information set; and combining the standardized information sets to create a composite information set, and wherein using the information related to the on-premises connection event and information related to the different connection event comprises using the composite information set to identify impossible travel.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein one or more computer-readable media further have stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to perform post-processing on any detected impossible travel to reduce noise for false positive alerts,
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the post processing comprises pattern recognition for removing common patterns.
9. A computer implemented method of determining impossible travel for a user entity (104-1) associated with an on-premises site (102-1) of an organization network (100), wherein the organization network (100) comprises a plurality of on-premises networks at different locations that share networking resources including a corpus of internal IP addresses each of which can be assigned to a user entity (104-1) connected to the organization network (100) without regard to which on-premises network the user entity (104-1) is connected, so that devices locally connected to the on-premises site (102-1) using the internal IP addresses from the corpus are unlocatable via geolocation, the method comprising: identifying (302) an estimated location of the on-premises site (102-1) by inferring a geolocation of the on-premises site (102-1) by aggregating geolocations based on external IP addresses of remote devices (104-2), which connect to the on-premises site (102-1) from said external IP addresses, wherein a remote device (104-2) connects to an on-premises site (102-1) that is most proximate geographically to said remote device (104-2); and assigning the inferred geolocation as the estimated location of the on-premises site (102-1); identifying (304) information related to an on-premises connection event to the on-premises site (102-1) including the estimated location, first time information, and a first user identification for the user entity (104-1); identifying (306) information related to a different connection event, where the information comprises location information of the user entity (104-1) attempting the different connection, second time information and a second user identification for the user entity (104-1); and using (308) the information related to the on-premises connection event and the information related to the different connection event, detecting impossible travel for the user entity (104-1); and providing (310) an alert indicating an impossible travel condition.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the different connection event comprises a connection event from a different on-premises site (102-2) associated with the organization network (100).
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the different connection event comprises a connection event from a remote location to a given on-premises site (102-1), but remote from the given on-premises site (102-1).
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the connection event from the remote location comprises a VPN connection.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the connection event from the remote location comprises a connection event using at least one of tunneling protocols, clouds, or consumer connections, etc.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: pre-processing the information related to the on-premises connection event to create a standardized information set; pre-processing the information related to the different connection event to create a different standardized information set; and combining the standardized information sets to create a composite information set, and wherein using the information related to the on-premises connection event and information related to the different connection event comprises using the composite information set to identify impossible travel.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising performing post-processing on any detected impossible travel to reduce noise for false positive alerts.
</claims>
</document>
