<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06F8/30,G06F9/451,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONDA RESEARCH INSTITUTE EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HECKMANN, DR. MARTIN
KOLOSSA, PROF. DR. DOROTHEA
NABIZADEH, MR. NIMA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65763256
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ASSISTANCE SYSTEM, METHOD, AND PROGRAM FOR ASSISTING A USER IN FULFILLING A TASK
</title>

<abstract>
A system for assisting a user in fulfilling a task, the system comprises a human interface unit for communicating with the user, a task input unit configured to obtain unstructured knowledge source data on the task, and a processor. The processor interprets a user input obtained by the human interface unit. The processor further analyzes the obtained unstructured knowledge source data for generating an internal representation of the task and monitors a task progress in performing the task by interpreting at least one of the user input and image data. The processor generates a support signal based on the generated internal representation and the monitored task progress and outputs the generated support signal, wherein the support signal comprises information on manipulating at least one object or information how to perform the task.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. System for assisting a user in fulfilling a task, the system comprising a human-machine interface unit (5) for communicating with the user, a task input unit (21) configured to obtain unstructured knowledge source data on the task, and a processor (20) configured to interpret a user input obtained by the human interface unit (5), analyze the obtained unstructured knowledge source data for generating an internal representation of the task, and to monitor a task progress by interpreting at least one of the user input and image data, wherein the processor (20) is further configured to generate a support signal based on the generated internal representation and the monitored task progress, and to output the generated support signal, wherein the support signal comprises information on manipulating at least one object or information on how to perform the task.
2. The system according to claim 1, characterized in that the processor (20) is configured to generate the internal representation of the task by subdividing the task into individual steps and arranging the individual steps in a time sequence for sequential and/or parallel execution based on a dependency between the individual steps, identify for each step which object(s) and/or part(s) of object(s) is/are involved in executing the step, the object(s) and/or part(s) of object(s) in particular including tools and/or spare parts, and determine how the involved object(s) and/or part(s) of object(s) is/are to be manipulated for performing the task.
3. The system according to claim 1 or 2, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to monitor the task progress by interpreting the user input including at least one of an oral user input, at least one visually perceivable gesture of the user, a tactile input of the user, and by interpreting the image data acquired from a visual sensor (7) and which depicts the user and the at least one object and/or at least one part of an object involved in the task.
4. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate the support signal including information on manipulating the object(s) and/or part(s) of object(s)comprising control information enabling the system to hand the at least one object and/or at least one part of an object to the user and/or fetch the at least one object and/or at least one part of the object from the user.
5. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to determine the at least one object and/or at least one part of an object required in a current step based on combining the obtained user input with the generated internal representation of the task.
6. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to predict the at least one object and/or at least one part of an object required in a future step based on combining the obtained user input with the generated internal representation of the task.
7. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate and output in the support signal action information on how to perform a current step for performing the task based on the internal task representation.
8. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the processor (20) is configured to obtain unstructured knowledge source data on at least one task which is similar to the task to be performed, and the processor (20) is configured to analyze the obtained unstructured knowledge source data on the at least one similar task for generating the internal representation of the task to be performed.
9. The system according to claim 8, characterized in that
the generated internal representation of the task includes at least one hypothesis on how to perform the current task.
10. The system according to one of claim 9, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to apply a weight to the at least one hypothesis based on the user input relating to at least one of the task to be performed, the objects involved in the task, a time sequence of involvement of the objects, and the acquired image data.
11. The system according to one of claims 9 or 10, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to provide the at least one hypothesis together with a confidence value assigned to the at least one hypothesis in the output signal to the user.
12. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate and output a step-by-step instruction for performing the task.
13. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that the task input unit (20) is configured to retrieve visual information on the task, and the processor (20) is configured to provide the retrieved visual information in the output signal to the user.
14. The system according to claim 13, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to extract the visual information from a description of the task, or to perform an image search using a web search machine and keywords relevant to the task.
15. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate and to output in the output signal feedback information on at least one of task progress and task success.
16. The system according to claims 13 to 15, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate the feedback information based on comparing the retrieved visual information with the acquired image data.
17. The system according to one of the preceding claims, characterized in that
the processor (20) is configured to generate general information on the task, the general information comprising information at least on one of objects that will be needed during execution of the task, a time that the task might take and a level of difficulty of the task, and to output the general information to the user.
18. Method for assisting a user in fulfilling a task, wherein the system comprises a human-machine interface unit (5) for communicating with the user, a processor (20) and a task input unit (21), the method comprising the following method steps: obtaining (S1) by the task input unit (21) unstructured knowledge source data on the task, analyzing (S2) by the processor (20) the obtained unstructured knowledge source data and generating (S3) an internal representation of the task, interpreting (S5) by the processor (20) a user input obtained by the human-machine interface unit (5), monitoring (S6) by the processor (20) a task progress indicating a progress in performing the task by interpreting at least one of the user input and image data, generating (S7) by the processor (20) a support signal based on the generated internal representation and the monitored task progress, and outputting the generated support signal, wherein the support signal comprises information on manipulating at least one object or information on how to perform the task.
19. Computer program with program-code means for executing the steps according to claim 17, when the program is executed on a computer or digital signal processor.
</claims>
</document>
