<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L17/26,G10L25/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WATANABE, NARIMASA
HORI, TATSURO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65991549
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VOICE INTERACTION SYSTEM, VOICE INTERACTION METHOD, AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A voice interaction system capable of appropriately handling a situation to effectively prevent a response error from occurring. A speech acquisition unit 102 acquires user speech. A feature extraction unit 104 extracts a feature of the acquired user speech. A response determination unit 120 determines a response corresponding to the extracted feature using any one of a plurality of learning models. A response execution unit 130 performs control in order to execute the determined response. A response error determination unit 140 determines whether the executed response is an error. A learning model selection unit 150 selects the learning model from the plurality of learning models stored in a learning model database 160 according to a result of the determination by the response error determination unit 140. The response determination unit 120 determines the response using the selected learning model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A voice interaction system (1) configured to have a conversation with a user by using a voice, comprising: a speech acquisition unit (102) configured to acquire user speech, the user speech being speech given by the user; a feature extraction unit (104) configured to extract a feature of the acquired user speech; a response determination unit (120) configured to determine a response corresponding to the extracted feature using any one of a plurality of learning models generated in advance by machine learning; a response execution unit (130) configured to perform control in order to execute the determined response; a response error determination unit (140) configured to determine whether the executed response is an error according to a timing of the executed response to the user speech or a timing of the user speech for the executed response; and a learning model selection unit (150) configured to select the learning model from the plurality of learning models according to a result of the determination by the response error determination unit (140), wherein the response determination unit (120) determines the response using the learning model selected by the learning model selection unit (150).
2. The voice interaction system (1) according to Claim 1, wherein the learning model selection unit (150) selects the learning model having a high probability of not selecting a response determined to be the error when the feature corresponding to the response determined to be the error is input.
3. The voice interaction system (1) according to Claim 2, wherein when the response is determined to be the error more than or equal to a predetermined plurality of times within a predetermined first period, the learning model selection unit (150) selects the learning model having a high probability of not selecting the response determined to be the error when the feature corresponding to the response determined to be the error is input.
4. The voice interaction system (1) according to Claim 3, wherein
when a speech response is executed by the response execution unit (130) during the user speech or when the user speech is executed while the response execution unit (130) is executing the speech response, the response error determination unit (140) determines that the response is an error of a speech collision, and
the learning model selection unit (150) selects the learning model having a high probability of not outputting the speech response when the feature corresponding to the response when the response is determined to be the error of the speech collision is input.
5. The voice interaction system (1) according to Claim 3 or 4, wherein
when a period from an end of the user speech until execution of the speech response by the response execution unit (130) is longer than or equal to a predetermined second period, the response error determination unit (140) determines the response as an error of a long silence, and
the learning model selection unit (150) selects the learning model having a high probability of outputting the speech response when the feature corresponding to the response when the response is determined to be the error of the long silence is input.
6. The voice interaction system (1) according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, further comprising a learning model generation unit (210) configured to generate a plurality of learning models, wherein
the learning model generation unit (210) classifies a sample data group used for the generating the learning model by a plurality of classification methods, calculates accuracy of each of the plurality of classification methods by calculating accuracy of the learning model obtained by performing machine learning for each of a plurality of groups obtained after the sample data group is classified, and generates the plurality of learning models using each of the plurality of groups classified by a classification method having the highest accuracy.
7. The voice interaction system (1) according to any one of Claims 1 to 6, further comprising a data acquisition unit (310) configured to acquire sample data for generating the learning model, wherein
when the data acquisition unit (310) acquires the sample data, the speech acquisition unit (102) acquires the user speech for acquiring the sample data, the feature extraction unit (104) extracts the feature of the acquired user speech, the response determination unit (120) determines the response according to the extracted feature using a determination model generated in advance by machine learning, the response execution unit (130) performs control for executing the determined response, the response error determination unit (140) determines whether the executed response to the user speech for acquiring the sample data is the error, and when the executed response to the user speech for acquiring the sample data is the error, the data acquisition unit (310) acquires the sample data by giving an incorrect label to the feature corresponding to the user speech.
8. A voice interaction method performed by a voice interaction system (1) that has a conversation with a user by using a voice, the voice interaction method comprising: acquiring user speech given by the user; extracting a feature of the acquired user speech; determining a response corresponding to the extracted feature using any one of a plurality of learning models generated in advance by machine learning; performing control in order to execute the determined response; determining whether the executed response is an error according to a timing of the executed response to the user speech or a timing of the user speech for the executed response; and selecting the learning model from the plurality of learning models according to a result of the determination, wherein the response is determined using the selected learning model.
9. A program for executing a voice interaction method performed by a voice interaction system (1) that has a conversation with a user by using a voice, the program causing a computer to execute: acquiring user speech given by the user; extracting a feature of the acquired user speech; determining a response corresponding to the extracted feature using any one of a plurality of learning models generated in advance by machine learning; performing control in order to execute the determined response; determining whether the executed response is an error according to a timing of the executed response to the user speech or a timing of the user speech for the executed response; and selecting the learning model from the plurality of learning models according to a result of the determination, wherein the response is determined using the selected learning model.
</claims>
</document>
