<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21C37/16,F42D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HATHI, BHUDEEP
MOHAMMAD, NASIRUDDIN
VAIDYANATHAN, VIVEK
RAJ, SAHIL A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65818243
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLAST RECONCILIATION FOR MINES
</title>

<abstract>
According to an example, with respect to blast reconciliation for mines, pre blast measurement data and post blast measurement data associated with a blasting operation for a mining site may be ascertained from a pre and post blast measurer. A blast reconciliation model may be generated using existing pre blast measurement data and existing post blast measurement data, and used to analyze the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data. Based on the analysis of the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data, a blast material yield for the mining site may be determined as a result of the blasting operation. An alert indicative of the blast material yield may be generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a blast analyzer, executed by at least one hardware processor, to
ascertain, from a pre and post blast measurer, pre blast measurement data and post blast measurement data associated with a blasting operation for a mining site; an artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to generate, using existing pre blast measurement data and existing post blast measurement data, a blast reconciliation model, analyze, using the blast reconciliation model, the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data, and determine, based on the analysis of the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data, a blast material yield for the mining site as a result of the blasting operation; and an alert generator, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to generate an alert indicative of the blast material yield.
2. The system according to claim 1, further comprising:
a mining operation controller, executed by the at least one hardware processor, to
control, based on the alert, a mining operation associated with the mining site.
3. The system according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the pre and post blast measurer comprises a laser device to ascertain
the pre blast measurement data that includes a pre blast length measurement from a reference location of the mining site to a surface of the mining site prior to commencement of the blasting operation; and
the post blast measurement data that includes a post blast length measurement from the reference location of the mining site to another surface of the mining site after completion of the blasting operation, and a blast area associated with the other surface of the mining site after the completion of the blasting operation.
4. The system according to claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the blast analyzer is executed by the at least one hardware processor, to ascertain, from the pre and post blast measurer, the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data associated with the blasting operation for the mining site by:
ascertaining, from a Cloud database that is to receive the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data from the pre and post blast measurer, the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data associated with the blasting operation for the mining site.
5. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer that is executed by the at least one hardware processor is to generate, using the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data, the blast reconciliation model by: implementing the blast reconciliation model utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning; and utilizing the artificial intelligence and the machine learning of the blast reconciliation model to analyze the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data.
6. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer that is executed by the at least one hardware processor is to analyze, using the blast reconciliation model, the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data by: tuning the blast reconciliation model; and determining a fit of the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data to the tuned blast reconciliation model.
7. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer is executed by the at least one hardware processor, to generate, using the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data, the blast reconciliation model by:
generating, using existing spot values associated with blasting operations for a specified time duration, existing survey values associated with the blasting operations for the specified time duration, the existing pre blast measurement data associated with the blasting operations for the specified time duration, and the existing post blast measurement data associated with the blasting operations for the specified time duration, the blast reconciliation model.
8. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer is executed by the at least one hardware processor, to generate, using the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data, the blast reconciliation model by:
utilizing, for the blast reconciliation model, a time series model to predict a production output value for blast material for a specified future date.
9. The system according to claim 8, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer is executed by the at least one hardware processor, to utilize, for the blast reconciliation model, the time series model to predict the production output value for blast material for the specified future date by: utilizing, for the blast reconciliation model, a linear time series model; determining, for the linear time series model, Akaike information criterion (AIC) values and Bayesian information criterion (BIC) values; identifying, from the determined AIC and BIC values, smallest AIC and BIC values; and utilizing the determined smallest AIC and BIC values to predict the production output value for blast material for the specified future date.
10. The system according to any of the preceding claims, wherein the artificial intelligence and machine learning model implementer is executed by the at least one hardware processor, to generate, using the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data, the blast reconciliation model by:
determining, for the blast reconciliation model, a variance between predicted and observed production output values for blast material.
11. A computer implemented method comprising: ascertaining, by at least one processor, from a pre and post blast measurer, pre blast measurement data and post blast measurement data associated with a blasting operation for a mining site; generating, by the at least one processor, using existing pre blast measurement data and existing post blast measurement data, a blast reconciliation model; analyzing, by the at least one processor, using the blast reconciliation model, the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data; determining, by the at least one processor, based on the analysis of the ascertained pre blast measurement data and the ascertained post blast measurement data, a blast material yield for the mining site as a result of the blasting operation; generating, by the at least one processor, an alert indicative of the blast material yield; and controlling, by the at least one processor, based on the alert, a mining operation associated with the mining site.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the pre and post blast measurer comprises a laser device, further comprising: ascertaining, by the laser device, the pre blast measurement data that includes a pre blast length measurement from a reference location of the mining site to a surface of the mining site prior to commencement of the blasting operation; and ascertaining, by the laser device, the post blast measurement data that includes a post blast length measurement from the reference location of the mining site to another surface of the mining site after completion of the blasting operation, and a blast area associated with the other surface of the mining site after the completion of the blasting operation.
13. The method according to claim 11 or 12, wherein ascertaining, from the pre and post blast measurer, the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data associated with the blasting operation for the mining site further comprises:
ascertaining, from a Cloud database that is to receive the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data from the pre and post blast measurer, the pre blast measurement data and the post blast measurement data associated with the blasting operation for the mining site.
14. The method according to claim 11, 12 or 13, wherein generating, using the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data, the blast reconciliation model further comprises: implementing the blast reconciliation model utilizing artificial intelligence and machine learning; and utilizing the artificial intelligence and the machine learning of the blast reconciliation model to analyze the existing pre blast measurement data and the existing post blast measurement data.
15. Computer program instructions that, when executed, cause at least one hardware processor to perform the method of one or more of claims 11 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
