<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/20,G08B13/196,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RELIANCE CORE CONSULTING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEDUC, JEAN-PIERRE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65019278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS FOR FACILITATING MOTION ANALYSIS IN AN ENVIRONMENT USING CAMERAS AND MOTION SENSORS AND A GATEWAY
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a system for facilitating motion analysis in an environment, in accordance with some embodiments. Accordingly, the system may include a plurality of motions sensors configured to be disposed in the environment. Further, the plurality of motion sensors may be configured to generate a plurality of motion data corresponding to at least one motion of at least one object in the environment. Further, the system may include a plurality of video cameras disposable at a plurality of key locations in the environment. Further, at least one video camera may be configured to transmit a part of a corresponding image sequence to a remote monitoring center through at least one gateway. Further, the system may include at least one gateway disposable proximal to the environment, which may be configured as a two-way interface capable of communicating with the remote monitoring center and the plurality of motion sensors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system configured for performing motion analysis in an environment, wherein the system comprises: a plurality of motions sensors configured to be disposed in the environment, wherein the plurality of motion sensors is configured to generate a plurality of motion data corresponding to at least one motion of at least one object in the environment; a plurality of video cameras disposable at a plurality of key locations in the environment, wherein each video camera is configured to capture image sequences associated with a portion of the environment, wherein at least one video camera is further configured to transmit a part of a corresponding image sequence to a remote monitoring center through at least one gateway; and at least one gateway disposable proximal to the environment, wherein the at least one gateway is configured as a two-way interface capable of communicating with the remote monitoring center and the plurality of motion sensors, wherein the remote monitoring center comprises a processing device configured for: analyzing the plurality of motion data and the image sequences; and generating at least one trajectory data corresponding to at least one trajectory associated with the at least one object based on the analyzing.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the environment comprises at least one surface, wherein the plurality of motion sensors is configured to be disposed on the at least one surface.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of motion sensors is associated with a plurality of field of views, wherein a field of view of a motion sensor comprises a spatial region within which a motion of an object is detectable by the motion sensor.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the environment comprises a field of interest, wherein the field of interest defines a region of interest within which at least one motion event corresponding to at least one object is detectable, wherein each region of the field of interest is comprised in at least one field of view of the plurality of field of views.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the spatial region comprises a three dimensional conical region characterized by an apex point coincidental with a position of the motion sensor, a height of the cone and a direction of the cone in relation to an at least one surface on which the motion sensor is disposed.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of field of views comprises at least two intersecting field of views characterized by at least one overlapping region, wherein the at least two intersecting field of views corresponds to at least two intersecting motion sensors of the plurality of motion sensors, wherein a motion event occurring in the overlapping region is detectable by each of at least two intersecting motion sensors.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processing device is configured for: determining a probability of failure associated with a motion sensor of the at least two intersecting motion sensors; and determining a number of the at least two intersecting motion sensors based on the probability of failure, wherein the plurality of motion sensors comprises the number of the at least two intersecting motion sensors.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating of the at least one trajectory data is based on a deep learning engine
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote monitoring center further comprises a communication device configured for: transmitting a prompt to an expert device associated with an expert, wherein the prompt comprises an unclassified incident; receiving a human feedback from the expert device, wherein the human feedback comprises a classification data; wherein, the processing device is further configured for: associating the plurality of motion data with the classification data; and training the deep learning engine based on the associating.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for: analyzing the at least one trajectory data based on at least one predetermined rule; and identifying at least one event of interest based on the analyzing of the at least one trajectory data.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for activating at least one tracker based on identifying of the at least one event, wherein the at least one tracker is configured for controlling at least one operational state of the plurality of motion sensors in order to track the at least one object associated with the event of interest.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for activating at least one secondary sensor based on the identifying of the at least one event of interest, wherein the at least one secondary sensor is disposed in the environment, wherein the at least one secondary sensor is communicatively coupled to the at least one gateway, wherein the at least one secondary sensor is configured for capturing secondary sensor data corresponding to the environment, wherein the at least one secondary sensor is configured for capturing secondary sensor data associated with the at least one object, wherein the processing device is further configured for: analyzing the secondary sensor data; and generating at least one insight associated with the at least one object based on the analyzing of the secondary sensor data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein a secondary entropy level associated with the secondary motion data is greater than a primary entropy level of the plurality of motion data.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one secondary sensor is configured for capturing at least one characteristic of the at least one object, wherein the at least one characteristic is undetectable by each of the plurality of motion sensors.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for performing at least one action based on the analyzing of the plurality of motion data.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one action comprises actuating at least one actuator disposed in the environment.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the at least one action comprises transmitting at least one notification to at least one user device.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for identifying the at least one object based on the analyzing, wherein the identifying comprises generating at least one object identifier associated with the at least one object.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured for generating at least one predicted motion data corresponding to a future motion of the at least one object based on the analyzing.
20. The system of claim 1 further comprising at least one specialty sensor configured for detecting at least one predetermined substance in the environment.
</claims>
</document>
