<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B66B13/06,B66B13/14,B66B13/18,B66B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEZAULT, QUENTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63144929
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELEVATOR COMPONENT INSPECTION SYSTEM AND METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Elevator systems and methods are provided. The systems include an elevator car including an elevator car door interlock device operable to open and close elevator car doors and a plurality of landing doors located at landings, each landing door including a landing door interlock device operable to open and close a respective landing door. Each landing door interlock device is engageable by the elevator car door interlock device to operate the elevator doors. An elevator component inspection system having a detector to monitor the interlock devices obtains inspection data associated with the interlock devices. A control unit is configured to analyze the inspection data. The component inspection system captures images of the interlock devices using the detector, performs a database inquiry comparing the captured image against a database of interlock device states, and determines a state of the interlock devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An elevator system comprising: an elevator car movable within an elevator shaft, the elevator car includes an elevator car door interlock device arranged on a top of the elevator car and operable to open and close elevator car doors; a plurality of landing doors located at respective landings along the elevator shaft, wherein each landing door includes a landing door interlock device operable to open and close a respective landing door, wherein each landing door interlock device is engageable by the elevator car door interlock device to enable operation of the elevator car doors and the respective landing door simultaneously; and an elevator component inspection system comprising a detector located on the top of the elevator car and arranged to monitor the elevator car door interlock device and the plurality of landing door interlock devices, wherein the detector obtains inspection data associated with the elevator car door interlock device and the plurality of landing door interlock devices, and a control unit configured to analyze the inspection data wherein the component inspection system: captures images of the elevator car door interlock device and landing door interlock device using the detector; performs a database inquiry comparing the captured image against a database of interlock device states; and determines a state of the elevator car door interlock device and landing door interlock device.
2. The elevator system of claim 1, wherein the control unit performs machine learning to learn one or more thresholds.
3. The elevator system of any preceding claim, wherein the threshold comprises a minimum area of contact between the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the inspection data indicates that less than the minimum area of contact is made between the landing door interlock device and the at least one landing door interlock device, in particular, wherein the minimum area of contact is at least 50% of the elevator car door interlock device is contacted by a respective element of the landing door interlock device.
4. The elevator system of any preceding claim, wherein the threshold comprises a minimum clearance gap between the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the inspection data indicates that a detected clearance gap exceeds the minimum clearance gap, particularly, wherein the minimum clearance gap is a spacing between 1 and 4 mm.
5. The elevator system of any preceding claim, wherein the threshold comprises a detected presence of a marker when the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device are in a closed position, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the presence of the marker is detected.
6. The elevator system of any preceding claim, wherein each landing door interlock device comprises a pair of rollers and the elevator car door interlock device comprises at least one of a set of vanes and a set of blades.
7. The elevator system of any preceding claim, further comprising transmitting the state of the interlock devices to a remote computing system.
8. A method for inspecting components an elevator system, the method comprising: performing machine learning to program a control unit to detect one or more thresholds of operation of an elevator door interlock; initiating a door interlock check sequence of an elevator system having an elevator car movable within an elevator shaft, the elevator car includes an elevator car door interlock device arranged on a top of the elevator car and operable to open and close elevator car doors and a plurality of landing doors located at respective landings along the elevator shaft, wherein each landing door includes a landing door interlock device operable to open and close a respective landing door, wherein each landing door interlock device is engageable by the elevator car door interlock device to enable operation of the elevator car doors and the respective landing door simultaneously; performing an inspection sequence with an elevator component inspection system comprising a detector located on the top of the elevator car and arranged to monitor the elevator car door interlock device and the plurality of landing door interlock devices; capturing inspection data with the detector, the inspection data associated with the elevator car door interlock device and the plurality of landing door interlock devices; and comparing, with the control unit, the inspection data against predetermined data to determine when at least one threshold is exceeded.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: analyzing the inspection data; determining if the inspection data indicates a threshold is exceeded; and generating a notification when a threshold is exceeded.
10. The method of any of claims 8-9, wherein one threshold comprises a minimum area of contact between the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the inspection data indicates that less than the minimum area of contact is made between the landing door interlock device and the at least one landing door interlock device, particularly, wherein the minimum area of contact is at least 50% of the elevator car door interlock device is contacted by a respective element of the landing door interlock device.
11. The method of any of claims 8-10, wherein one threshold comprises a minimum clearance gap between the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the inspection data indicates that a detected clearance gap exceeds the minimum clearance gap, particularly, wherein the minimum clearance gap is a spacing between 1 and 4 mm.
12. The method of any of claims 8-11, further comprising detecting a marker, wherein the inspection data comprises a detected presence of the marker when the landing door interlock device and at least one landing door interlock device are in a closed position, and wherein the threshold is exceeded when the presence of the marker is detected.
13. The method of any of claims 8-12, further comprising generating a interlock device state database and querying the interlock device state database to determine if a threshold is exceeded.
14. The method of any of claims 8-13, further comprising transmitting the inspection data to at least one of a mobile device, a remote device, a distributed computing system, and an elevator controller.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising processing the inspection data on the at least one of a mobile device, a remote device, a distributed computing system, and an elevator controller.
</claims>
</document>
