<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02C13/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T7/10,G06T7/12,G06T7/149
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARL ZEISS
CARL ZEISS VISION INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHWARZ, OLIVER
NIEUWENHUIS, CLAUDIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57914863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR DETERMINING A REPRESENTATION OF A SPECTACLE GLASS RIM
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a computer-implemented method for determining the representation of the edge (26) of a spectacle lens (28) or of a left spectacle lens (28) and of a right spectacle lens (29) for a spectacle frame (20). According to the invention, the following steps are carried out: providing image data b(x) for the spectacle frame (20) with a worn frame front (24); calculating information data I(x) derived from the image data b(x); calculating a deterministically optimisable cost function E(u) which links the information data I(x) to spectacle lens data u(x), the spectacle lens data u(x) describing the spatial extent of at least one spectacle lens (28) held in the frame front (24); and defining a contour of an edge (26) of the spectacle lens (28) or of the left spectacle lens (28) and of the right spectacle lens (29) by optimising the cost function E(u).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Computer-implemented method for ascertaining the representation of the rim (26) of a spectacle lens (28) or of a left spectacle lens (28) and of a right spectacle lens (29) for a spectacle wearer (20), comprising
providing an image (36) of the spectacle wear (20) having image data b(x) pertaining to the spectacle wearer (20) having a spectacle frame (24) that is worn, and
providing information data I(x) that are data pertaining to information of the image (36) that are calculated from the image data b(x) of the image (36) of the spectacle wearer (20),
characterized by the following steps: calculating a deterministically optimizable cost function E(u) linking the information data I(x) to spectacle lens data u(x), wherein the spectacle lens data u(x) describe the physical extent of at least one spectacle lens (28) held in the spectacle frame (24), stipulating a profile of a rim (26) of the spectacle lens (28) or of the left spectacle lens (28) and of the right spectacle lens (29) by optimizing the cost function E(u).
2. Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that the information data I(x) comprise a colour information image (52) ascertained from the captured image data b(x) by means of a colour evaluation algorithm that evaluates the colour of image data b (x) .
3. Method according to Claim 1, characterized in that the information data I(x) comprise an edge information image (46) ascertained from the captured image data b(x) by means of an edge detection algorithm.
4. Method according to Claim 2, characterized in that the information data I(x) comprise an edge information image (46) ascertained from the captured image data b(x) by means of an edge detection algorithm.
5. Method according to Claim 4, characterized in that the cost function E(u) is a weighted sum of an edge detection cost term Eg(u) and of a colour evaluation cost term Ef(u).
6. Method according to one of Claims 3 to 5, characterized in that the edge detection algorithm contains an edge detector from the group comprising gradient, colour gradient, Canny edge detector, directional filter, in particular Sobel filter, and/or
in that the edge detection algorithm for the edge detection accesses a filter bank having learnt edge detectors,
and/or
in that the edge detection algorithm is in the form of a self-learning algorithm using machine learning methods,
and/or
in that the edge detection algorithm contains a machine learning method trained specifically for spectacle edges that can distinguish spectacle frame edges from non-spectacle frame edges and/or outer spectacle frame edges from inner spectacle frame edges.
7. Method according to one of Claims 1 to 6, characterized in that the information data I(x) are calculated from detail image data bA(x) of the image detail (38),
and/or
in that the information data I(x) contain data pertaining to a colour model and/or pertaining to an edge image and/or pertaining to a colour probability distribution and/or pertaining to an object in the image (36),
and/or
in that the calculating of information data I(x) derived from the image data b(x) comprises ascertaining facial feature information data m(x) using an algorithm for detecting facial features, in particular an algorithm for detecting facial features that is designed to detect one or more facial features from the group comprising eye, pupil, eyebrow, nose, mouth or edge of the face,
and/or
in that the calculating of information data I(x) derived from the image data comprises ascertaining mirroring information data s(x) using an algorithm for detecting mirroring at the spectacle frame or at a spectacle lens received in the spectacle frame or in that the calculating of information data I(x) derived from the image data comprises ascertaining mirroring information data s(x) using an algorithm for detecting mirroring at the spectacle frame and at a spectacle lens received in the spectacle frame, wherein the algorithm distinguishes mirroring at the spectacle frame from mirroring at the spectacle lens,
and/or
in that the calculating of information data I(x) derived from the image data b(x) comprises ascertaining spectacle lens shape information data di(x) using an algorithm that uses a spectacle lens model supplied to the algorithm or uses a multiplicity of spectacle lens models supplied to the algorithm to specify, as spectacle lens shape information data di(x), a 2D shape or a 3D shape of a spectacle lens (28, 29) able to be held in a spectacle frame (24) and/or a parametric model or a probability-representing map concerning the probability of captured image data b(x) being located on a spectacle lens (28, 29),
and/or
in that the calculated information data I(x) derived from the image data b(x) comprise a bridge centre M ascertained by means of a bridge centre detection algorithm,
and/or
in that the cost function E(u) for ascertaining the rim of a left spectacle lens (28) and of a right spectacle lens (29) for a spectacle wearer (20) rates a symmetry of spectacle lens data u(x),
and/or
in that the cost function E(u) contains at least one model learnt from data by machine learning,
and/or
in that the cost function E(u) is convex.
8. Method according to one of Claims 1 to 7, characterized in that the provided image data b(x) pertaining to the spectacle wearer (20) are based on images taken from at least two different angles of view.
9. Method according to Claim 8, characterized in that the cost function E(u) for ascertaining the rim (26) of a left spectacle lens (28) and of a right spectacle lens (29) for a spectacle wearer (20) rates points in spectacle lens data u(x), imaged onto one another with a stereo condition, to form images that correspond to different recording directions (19) of an image capture device (14, 16, 18) .
10. Computer program comprising program code that, when loaded into and executed in a computer system, is designed to perform a method according to one of the preceding claims.
11. Apparatus for ascertaining the profile of the rim of a spectacle lens (28) or of a left spectacle lens (28) and/or of a right spectacle lens (29) for a spectacle wearer (20),
having at least one image capture device (14, 16, 18) for providing an image (36) of the spectacle wearer (20) having image data b(x) pertaining to the spectacle wearer (20) having a spectacle frame (24) that is worn,
having means for providing information data I(x) that are data pertaining to information of the image (36) that are calculated from the image data b(x) of the image (36) of the spectacle wearer (20), characterized by
means for calculating a deterministically optimizable cost function E(u) linking the information data I(x) to spectacle lens data u(x), wherein the spectacle lens data u(x) describe the physical extent of at least one spectacle lens (28) held in the spectacle frame (24), and
means for stipulating a profile of a rim (26) of the spectacle lens (28) or of the left spectacle lens (28) and of the right spectacle lens (29) by optimizing the cost function E(u).
12. Method for centring a left spectacle lens (28) or a right spectacle lens (29) in a spectacle frame (24), characterized in that
a step (i) involves centring parameters being determined for the spectacle lens (28, 29), wherein the determining of the centring parameters comprises ascertaining the representation of the rim (26) of the spectacle lens (28, 29) using a method according to one of Claims 1 to 9; and
a step (ii) involves the spectacle lens (28, 29) being centred in the spectacle frame using the centring parameters determined in step (i).
13. Method for grinding a left spectacle lens (28) or a right spectacle lens (29) into a spectacle frame (24),
characterized in that
a step (i) involves centring parameters being determined for the spectacle lens (28, 29), wherein the determining of the centring parameters comprises ascertaining the representation of the rim (26) of the spectacle lens (28, 29) using a method according to one of Claims 1 to 9; and a step (ii) involves the spectacle lens being ground for an arrangement in the spectacle frame on the basis of the centring parameters determined in step (i).
14. Method for producing a left spectacle lens (28) or a right spectacle lens (29), characterized by the method step of grinding the spectacle lens into a spectacle frame in a method according to Claim 13.
15. Method for producing a pair of spectacles, characterized in that a method according to one of Claims 12, 13 and 14 is used.
</claims>
</document>
