<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/30,G06F21/33,H04L29/06,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOTI HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODRIGUEZ, FRANCISCO ANGEL GARCIA
SZCZESNIAK, ROMEK EDWARD
GRECI, PAOLO
LOUGHLIN-MCHUGH, ELEANOR SIMONE FREDERIKA
WITHERS, LAURENCE
POWLESLAND, PIERS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55405318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DIGITAL IDENTITY SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method of authenticating a bearer to a validator, the method comprising implementing by a digital identity system the following steps: receiving from a bearer an electronic message comprising a bearer key encrypted with a bearer wrapper key, wherein the message identifies: an attribute of the bearer held in a data store of the digital identity system and a storage location of the digital identity system at which a version of the bearer wrapper key is held; using the received message to retrieve the version of the bearer wrapper key from the identified storage location; using the located wrapper key to decrypt the received bearer key; and using the decrypted bearer key to decrypt the bearer attribute, wherein the digital identity system is configured to render the decrypted bearer attribute available to a validator when authorized to do so by the bearer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of authenticating a bearer to a validator, the method comprising implementing by a digital identity system the following steps: receiving from a bearer an electronic message comprising a bearer key encrypted with a bearer wrapper key, wherein the message identifies: an attribute of the bearer held in a data store of the digital identity system and a storage location of the digital identity system at which a version of the bearer wrapper key is held; using the received message to retrieve the version of the bearer wrapper key from the identified storage location; using the located wrapper key to decrypt the received bearer key; and using the decrypted bearer key to decrypt the bearer attribute, wherein the digital identity system is configured to render the decrypted bearer attribute available to a validator when authorized to do so by the bearer.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the attribute is encrypted with an attribute key, wherein a version of the attribute key encrypted with the bearer key is held at a storage location in the digital identity system that is identified by the message; and
the decrypted bearer key is used to decrypt the bearer attribute by using the decrypted bearer key to decrypt the attribute key, and using the decrypted attribute key to decrypt the attribute.
3. A method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein a credential of the bearer is received with the encrypted bearer key, and the remaining steps are only performed if the credential is determined to be valid by the digital identity system, and the method further comprises:
issuing to the bearer a fresh one-time only use credential of the bearer, and associating the fresh bearer credential with the version of the bearer wrapper key stored at the digital identity system.
4. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the electronic message is an electronic sharing token request, and the method comprises: generating, by the digital identity system, in response to the electronic sharing token request, a sharing token unique to that request; associating with the unique sharing token at the digital identity system the identified bearer attribute; and issuing to the bearer the unique sharing token; wherein later presentation of the unique sharing token to the digital identity system by the validator causes the decrypted bearer attribute to be rendered available to the validator by the digital identity system.
5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the sharing token is associated with the bearer attribute by storing the decrypted bearer attribute at the digital identity system in association with the sharing token.
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the wrapper key is a device key bound to a single device operated by the bearer.
7. A method according to any of claims 4 to 6, wherein the sharing token is associated with the bearer attribute by storing a copy of at least a part of the token request at the digital identity system in association with the unique sharing token, wherein the later presentation of the unique sharing token to the digital identity system causes the digital identity system to retrieve the bearer attribute from the data store using the stored token request.
8. A method according to claim 7, wherein the stored request is encrypted with a sharing key, a copy of which is issued to the bearer with the sharing token, whereby the validator must present the sharing key with the sharing token to access the at least one bearer attribute.
9. A method according to any preceding claim wherein the electronic message comprises, for each attribute it identifies, a respective database key and/or at least one pointer and/or other data denoting a location of that attribute in the data store.
10. A method according to claim 2 or any claim dependent thereon, wherein the electronic message identifies at least two attributes of the bearer held at different locations in the data store, wherein each of the attributes is encrypted with an attribute key unique to that attribute, wherein a version of each attribute key encrypted with the bearer key is held at a storage location in the digital identity system that is identified by the message.
11. A bearer device comprising: a computer interface; a processor configured to execute a digital identity application, wherein the digital identity application is configured when executed on the processor to perform operations of: generating an electronic message comprising a bearer key encrypted with a bearer wrapper key, wherein the message identifies: an attribute of the bearer held in a data store of a digital identity system and a storage location of the digital identity system at which a version of the bearer wrapper key is held; transmitting the electronic message to the digital identity system via the computer interface, thereby causing the digital identity system to retrieve the version of the bearer wrapper key from the identified storage location, use the located wrapper key to decrypt the bearer key, and use the decrypted bearer key to decrypt the bearer attribute for rendering available by the digital identity system to a validator when authorized to do so by the bearer device.
12. A bearer device according to claim 11, wherein the electronic message is an electronic sharing token request, wherein said operations comprise: receiving from the digital identity system, in response to the electronic token request, a sharing token unique to that request for presentation by the bearer device to a validator; and rendering the unique sharing token available to a validator, wherein presentation of the unique sharing token to the digital identity system by the validator causes the decrypted bearer attribute to be rendered available to the validator by the digital identity system.
13. A bearer device according to claim 12, wherein the unique sharing token is received with a sharing key for decrypting the at least one bearer attribute, which the application is configured to provide to the validator with the sharing token.
14. A bearer device according to any of claims 12 to 13, wherein the application is configured to also generate at least one policy which is included in the electronic message transmitted to the digital identity system, wherein the application is configured to render a copy of the policy available to the validator with the sharing token, wherein the at least one policy defines at least a type of the bearer attribute and/or at least one attribute type to be shared by the bearer in return for the at least one bearer attribute.
15. A computer program product comprising code stored on a computer readable storage medium and configured when executed to implement the method or digital identity application of any preceding claim.
</claims>
</document>
