<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W50/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLVO CAR CORPORATION
ZENUITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BACKHOUSE, ANDREW
HARDÅ, PETER
MOHAMMADIHA, NASSER
ÖDBLOM, ANDERS
MOVERT, ANDERS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63014410
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AVOIDING A COLLISION COURSE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for predicting a trajectory of at least one secondary road user (106) for avoiding a collision course with the secondary road user (108) for a host vehicle (100). Determining (S102) the present location for the host vehicle. Retrieving (S104) a plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories (110) for a present traffic situation. Detecting (S106) the position and speed of the at least one secondary road user. Predicting (S108) at least one feasible trajectory (114) for the at least one secondary road user based on the position and the speed of the at least one secondary road user to the plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories. Selecting (S110) at least one feasible trajectory of the feasible trajectories for each secondary road user based on a selection criterion. Performing (S112) at least one action based on the selected at least one feasible trajectory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting a trajectory of at least one secondary road user (108) for avoiding a collision course with the secondary road user (108) for a host vehicle (100), the method comprising: - determining (S102) the present location for the host vehicle; - retrieving (S104) a plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories for a present traffic situation in the vicinity of the present location; - detecting (S106) the position and speed of the at least one secondary road user in the vicinity of the present traffic situation; - predicting (S108) at least one feasible trajectory for the at least one secondary road user based on the position and the speed of the at least one secondary road user and the plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories for the present traffic situation; - selecting (S110) at least one feasible trajectory of the feasible trajectories for each secondary road user based on a selection criterion, and - performing (S112) at least one action based on the selected at least one feasible trajectory.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the modelled clusters of trajectories further comprises a speed profile for each of the trajectories, the method comprising: - predicting a speed profile for each of the plurality of trajectories for the at least one secondary road user based on comparing the position and the speed of the at least one secondary road user to the modelled clusters of trajectories including modelled speed profiles for the present traffic situation; - selecting at least one feasible trajectory of the feasible trajectories including a speed profile for each secondary road user based on the selection criterion, and - performing at least one action based on the selected at least one feasible trajectory.
3. The method according to any one of claim 1 or 2, wherein the at least one action comprises providing a warning signal indicative of that the host vehicle is on collision course with at least one secondary road user.
4. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one action comprises selecting a path for the host vehicle to avoid a collision course with the at least one secondary road user.
5. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the at least one action comprises triggering an intervention action when it is determined that the host vehicle is on collision course with at least one secondary road user.
6. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising: - generating modelled clusters of trajectories, including the plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories, for a plurality of traffic situations for which scene data is available based on a supervised learning algorithm applied to received trajectory data for a plurality of traffic situations and the geometry of the traffic situations.
7. The method according to claim 6 wherein the scene data is determined from at least one of photos or map data for the traffic situations.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the scene data comprises speed limit data for the traffic situations.
9. The method according to any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the generation of the modelled clusters of trajectories is performed in a deep neural network.
10. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising: - selecting the retrieved plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories for the present traffic situation based on a match between the location of the host vehicle and one of the plurality of traffic situations.
11. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories depends on time of day, date, or weather and/or other measurable environmental conditions.
12. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, comprising: - determining a sub-class of modelled clusters of trajectories based on traffic object data indicative of traffic characteristics of the present traffic situation, wherein the predicting of the at least one feasible trajectory for the at least one secondary road user is based on the position and the speed of the at least one secondary road user and on the sub-class of modelled clusters of trajectories.
13. An active safety system (500) for a host vehicle (100), comprising: - at least one detection unit (502) for detecting the position and the speed of a secondary road user (108); - a positioning system (504) for determining the present location of the host vehicle, and - a vehicle control unit (506) configured to: - retrieve a plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories (110) for a present traffic situation (102), the present traffic situation is based on the present location of the host vehicle; - predict at least one feasible trajectory (114) for the at least one secondary road user based on the position and the speed of the at least one secondary road user and the plurality of modelled clusters of trajectories for the present traffic situation; - select at least one feasible trajectory of the feasible trajectories for each secondary road user based on a selection criterion, and - control the host vehicle to perform at least one action based on the selected at least one feasible trajectory.
14. The active safety system according to claim 13, wherein the at least one action comprises at least one of: providing a warning signal indicative of that the host vehicle is on collision course with at least one secondary road user, or triggering an intervention action when it is determined that the host vehicle is on collision course with at least one secondary road user, or selecting a path for the host vehicle to avoid a collision course with the at least one secondary road user.
15. A vehicle comprising the active safety system according to any one of claims 13 or 14.
</claims>
</document>
