<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAYA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELANEY, PAUL
KELLY, EDEL
PORTER, KEZZIA
WASAM, DANUSHKA MIGEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67438335
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC CONFERENCING SYSTEM AND METHOD OF OPERATING AN ELECTRONIC CONFERENCING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
System and method of operating an electronic conferencing system comprising: receiving a request for a meeting comprising invitees, wherein the invitees comprise at least two invitees and a conferencing resource enabling electronic communications between each of the invitees utilizing an associated networked device configured to be networked via the conferencing resource; processing the request comprising causing a record to be created associated with the meeting, the record identifying each invitee and having an occurrence state initially set as tentative; at a subsequent time, after the creation of the record, receiving an endorsement and, in response to receiving the endorsement, changing the occurrence state to confirmed; scheduling at least the conferencing resource for meetings having an occurrence state of confirmed; and omitting scheduling any resource for meetings having an occurrence state of tentative; creating the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time prior to the passing of the deadline, changing the occurrence state to confirmed; and creating the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time after the deadline has passed, omitting changing the occurrence state to confirmed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a microprocessor; a network interface; and a data storage; and wherein the microprocessor: receives a request for a meeting comprising invitees, wherein the invitees comprise at least two invitees and a conferencing resource enabling electronic communications between each of the invitees utilizing an associated networked device configured to be networked via the conferencing resource; processes the request comprising causing a record to be created associated with the meeting, the record identifying each invitee and having an occurrence state initially set as tentative; at a subsequent time, after the creation of the record, receiving an endorsement and, in response to receiving the endorsement, changing the occurrence state to confirmed; scheduling at least the conferencing resource for meetings having an occurrence state of confirmed; and omitting scheduling any resource for meetings having an occurrence state of tentative.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor further creates the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time after the deadline has passed, omitting changing the occurrence state to confirmed.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the microprocessor, at the subsequent time being a time after the deadline has passed, cancels the meeting; and
formats and transmits messaging cancelling the meeting to the network devices.
4. The system of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the microprocessor further creates the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time prior to the passing of the deadline, changing the occurrence state to confirmed.
5. The system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the system comprises at least one of the networked devices.
6. The system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein at least one of the network devices presents the record having a distinguishing indicia, the distinguishing indicia differentiating whether the record is associated with a meeting that is tentative or confirmed.
7. The system of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the endorsement comprises receiving a content associated with the meeting.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the content comprises one or more of at least one invitee indicating attendance, a document is uploaded that is associated with the meeting, an agenda is provided that is associated with the meeting, an agenda topic is identified for discussion by a particular invitee, the number of invitees confirming their attendance is above, or a previously determined threshold.
9. The system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the meeting comprises a plurality of meetings, having a common topic and each meeting having one of a series of starting dates.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the record comprises a plurality of records for each of the corresponding plurality of meetings.
11. The system of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein an endorsement for one of the plurality of meetings is provided by the microprocessor receiving indicia of an immediately preceding meeting of the one of the plurality of meetings, having occurred without being canceled.
12. The system of any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein upon the microprocessor changing the value of the occurrence state for the record, causes a notification message thereof to be generated and transmitted to each invitee associated with the record.
13. The system of any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the microprocessor, upon receiving an endorsement for a record associated with a conflicting meeting, changes the occurrence state to canceled.
14. A method of operating an electronic conferencing system comprising at least one microprocessor, comprising: receiving a request for a meeting comprising invitees, wherein the invitees comprise at least two invitees and a conferencing resource enabling electronic communications between each of the invitees utilizing an associated networked device configured to be networked via the conferencing resource; processing the request comprising causing a record to be created associated with the meeting, the record identifying each invitee and having an occurrence state initially set as tentative; at a subsequent time, after the creation of the record, receiving an endorsement and, in response to receiving the endorsement, changing the occurrence state to confirmed; scheduling at least the conferencing resource for meetings having an occurrence state of confirmed; and omitting scheduling any resource for meetings having an occurrence state of tentative.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: creating the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time prior to the passing of the deadline, changing the occurrence state to confirmed; and creating the record to comprise a deadline and in response to receiving the endorsement, at the subsequent time being a time after the deadline has passed, omitting changing the occurrence state to confirmed.
</claims>
</document>
