<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHMIDT, SEBASTIAN
KAISER, NICO
HÖLZER, PHILIPP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63556118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND PROVIDING UNIT FOR PROVIDING AN OPTIMIZED ENERGY BIN PARAMETER SET FOR PHOTON-COUNTING SPECTRAL COMPUTED TOMOGRAPHY
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect the invention relates to a method for providing an optimized energy bin parameter set for photon-counting spectral computed tomography, the method comprising the following steps:- receiving photon-counting spectral computed tomography data related to a plurality of energy bins and an initial energy bin parameter set,- performing iteration steps of a plurality of iteration steps,- wherein the input of the first iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises the initial energy bin parameter set as an input energy bin parameter set,- wherein the input of each further iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises an adjusted energy bin parameter set calculated in the preceding iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps as the input energy bin parameter set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method for providing an optimized energy bin parameter set for photon-counting spectral computed tomography, the method comprising the following steps: - receiving (RD) photon-counting spectral computed tomography data related to a plurality of energy bins and an initial energy bin parameter set, - performing (PI) iteration steps of a plurality of iteration steps, - wherein the input of the first iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises the initial energy bin parameter set as an input energy bin parameter set, - wherein the input of each further iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises an adjusted energy bin parameter set calculated in the preceding iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps as the input energy bin parameter set, - providing (PP) the optimized energy bin parameter set based on the adjusted energy bin parameter set calculated in the last iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps, - wherein each iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises the following steps: a) calculating (CI) medical image data by applying at least one reconstruction algorithm onto the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data and the input energy bin parameter set, b) calculating (CS) segmentation data related to an anatomical structure in the medical image data by applying at least one segmentation algorithm onto the medical image data, c) calculating (CE) evaluation data by applying an evaluation algorithm onto the segmentation data, d) calculating (CO) the adjusted energy bin parameter set by applying an optimization algorithm onto the evaluation data and the input energy bin parameter set.
2. The method according to claim 1, - wherein the optimized energy bin parameter set comprises a plurality of weighting parameters, - wherein the at least one reconstruction algorithm is configured for weighting subsets of the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data relative to each other based on the weighting parameters.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, - wherein the segmentation algorithm is a trained deep learning based semantic segmentation algorithm.
4. The method according to one of the claims 1 to 3, - wherein the evaluation algorithm is a trained deep learning based evaluation algorithm.
5. The method according to one of the claims 1 to 4, - wherein each iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps further comprises the following step: - determining, whether a termination criterion is fulfilled based on the evaluation data.
6. The method according to one of the claims 1 to 5, - wherein the optimization algorithm is an iterative optimization algorithm and/or an evolutionary optimization algorithm.
7. Method for providing a medical image, the method comprising the following steps: - performing the method according to one of the claims 1 to 6, thereby obtaining an optimized energy bin parameter set, - calculating the medical image by applying a reconstruction algorithm onto the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data and the optimized energy bin parameter set, - providing the medical image.
8. Method for providing a segmentation of an anatomical structure, the method comprising the following steps: - performing the method according to one of the claims 1 to 6, thereby obtaining an optimized energy bin parameter set, - calculating medical image data by applying at least one reconstruction algorithm onto the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data and the optimized energy bin parameter set, - calculating the segmentation of the anatomical structure in the medical image data by applying at least one segmentation algorithm onto the medical image data, - providing the segmentation of the anatomical structure.
9. A training method for training a machine learning algorithm for providing an optimized energy bin parameter set for photon-counting spectral computed tomography, the method comprising the following steps: - receiving (RPD) a plurality of photon-counting spectral computed tomography data sets and an initial energy bin parameter set, - for each photon-counting spectral computed tomography data set of the plurality of photon-counting spectral computed tomography data sets, performing (PM) the method of one of the claims 1 to 6, thereby obtaining, for each photon-counting spectral computed tomography data set, a corresponding optimized energy bin parameter set, - generating (GT) a plurality of training pairs, each training pair of the plurality of training pairs comprising one photon-counting spectral computed tomography data set of the plurality of photon-counting spectral computed tomography data sets and the corresponding optimized energy bin parameter set, - training (TA) the machine learning algorithm based on the plurality of training pairs, thereby obtaining a trained machine learning algorithm for providing an optimized energy bin parameter set for photon-counting spectral computed tomography.
10. A providing unit (P-U) for providing an optimized energy bin parameter set for photon-counting spectral computed tomography, the providing unit comprising the following units: - a receiving unit (RD-U), configured for receiving photon-counting spectral computed tomography data related to a plurality of energy bins and an initial energy bin parameter set, - an iteration unit (PI-U), configured for performing iteration steps of a plurality of iteration steps, - wherein the input of the first iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises the initial energy bin parameter set as an input energy bin parameter set, - wherein the input of each further iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps comprises an adjusted energy bin parameter set calculated in the preceding iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps as the input energy bin parameter set, - an energy bin parameter set providing interface (PP-I), configured for providing the optimized energy bin parameter set based on the adjusted energy bin parameter set calculated in the last iteration step of the plurality of iteration steps, - wherein the iteration unit (PI-U) comprises the following calculation units: a) a medical image calculation unit (CI-U), configured for calculating medical image data by applying at least one reconstruction algorithm onto the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data and the input energy bin parameter set, b) a segmentation data calculation unit (CS-U), configured for calculating segmentation data related to an anatomical structure in the medical image data by applying at least one segmentation algorithm onto the medical image data, c) an evaluation data calculation unit (CE-U), configured for calculating evaluation data by applying an evaluation algorithm onto the segmentation data, d) an optimization calculation unit (CO-U) calculating the adjusted energy bin parameter set by applying an optimization algorithm onto the evaluation data and the input energy bin parameter set.
11. The providing unit (P-U) of claim 10, configured to implement the method of one of the claims 1 to 6.
12. The providing unit (P-U) of claim 10, further comprising a medical image providing interface (PI-I), configured for providing a medical image, - wherein the providing unit is further configured to implement the method of claim 7.
13. The providing unit (P-U) of claim 10 or 11, further comprising a segmentation providing interface (PS-I), configured for providing a segmentation of an anatomical structure, - wherein the providing unit is further configured to implement the method of claim 8.
14. A computer program product comprising program elements which induce a providing unit (P-U) to carry out the steps of the method according to one of the claims 1 to 8, when the program elements are loaded into a memory of the providing unit.
15. A computer-readable medium on which program elements are stored that can be read and executed by a providing unit (P-U), in order to perform the steps of the method according to one of the claims 1 to 8, when the program elements are executed by the providing unit.
16. A computed tomography device, comprising: - a detector, configured for acquiring photon-counting spectral computed tomography data related to a plurality of energy bins, - a processor, configured for applying a machine learning algorithm trained by the training method of claim 9 to the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data, thereby obtaining an optimized energy bin parameter set, - a medical image calculation unit, configured for calculating a medical image by applying a reconstruction algorithm onto the photon-counting spectral computed tomography data and the optimized energy bin parameter set.
</claims>
</document>
