<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/00,G10L15/22,G10L15/30,H04L12/24,H04L29/08,H04W4/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLARK, STEVEN
KUMAR, PREM
MOHAMMED, SUMER
NG, CHI YEUNG JONATHAN
SCHAIRER, DAVID ROY
SPATES, IV, MARK
ZHU, DI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65911298
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING IOT-BASED NOTIFICATION(S) AND PROVISIONING OF COMMAND(S) TO CAUSE AUTOMATIC RENDERING OF THE IOT-BASED NOTIFICATION(S) BY AUTOMATED ASSISTANT CLIENT(S) OF CLIENT DEVICE(S)
</title>

<abstract>
Remote automated assistant component(s) generate client device notification(s) based on a received IoT state change notification that indicates a change in at least one state associated with at least one IoT device. The generated client device notification(s) can each indicate the change in state associated with the at least one IoT device, and can optionally indicate the at least one IoT device. Further, the remote automated assistant component(s) can identify candidate assistant client devices that are associated with the at least one IoT device, and determine whether each of the one or more of the candidate assistant client device(s) should render a corresponding client device notification. The remote automated assistant component(s) can then transmit a corresponding command to each of the assistant client device(s) it determines should render a corresponding client device notification, where each transmitted command causes the corresponding assistant client device to render the corresponding client device notification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, via one or more network interfaces of an automated assistant computing system, an Internet of things, IoT, state change notification, the IoT state change notification transmitted to the automated assistant computing system in response to determining a change in a state associated with at least one IoT device, and the IoT state change notification comprising: a unique identifier, an indication of the at least one IoT device, and a state indication that indicates the change in the state associated with the at least one IoT device; identifying, by the automated assistant computing system based on the unique identifier, a plurality of candidate assistant client devices that are each associated with the unique identifier and that each have a corresponding automated assistant client; generating, by the automated assistant computing system based on the indication of the at least one IoT device and based on the state indication, a client device notification for at least one client device of the plurality of candidate assistant client devices; transmitting, to the one client device, a command that causes the automated assistant client of the one client device to: automatically render the generated client device notification via at least one user interface output device of the one client device, wherein the command causes the client device to automatically render the generated client device notification independent of any user interface input that explicitly requests rendering of any notifications; automatically monitor for voice input for a period of time after the client device notification has been at least partially rendered; and transmit data corresponding to a spoken utterance based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input; receiving, from the one client device, the data corresponding to the spoken utterance; generating an IoT device command based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance, and based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input; and transmitting the IoT device command, wherein transmitting the IoT device command causes alteration of the state, or of an additional state, of the at least one IoT device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the IoT device command based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance, and based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input comprises: generating at least one value for the IoT device command based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance; and inferring at least one additional value for the IoT device command based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input, wherein inferring the at least one additional value is based on the client device notification or the IoT state change notification based on which the client device notification is generated.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein inferring the at least one additional value based on the IoT state change notification comprises inferring an identifier of the at least one IoT device based on the IoT state change notification or the client device notification.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the one client device, the data corresponding to the spoken utterance; generating responsive content for the spoken utterance based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance, and based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input; and transmitting the responsive content to the one client device to cause the one client device to render responsive output that is based on the responsive content; optionally wherein generating the responsive content based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance, and based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input, comprises: generating at least one value based on the data corresponding to the spoken utterance; and inferring at least one additional value based on the spoken utterance being detected during the automatic monitoring for the voice input, wherein inferring the at least one additional value is based on the client device notification or the IoT state change notification based on which the client device notification is generated; and generating the responsive content based on the at least one value and the at least one additional value.
5. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the client device notification comprises text, wherein the command comprises the text of the client device notification and wherein the command causes the automated assistant client of the selected one client device to automatically render the generated client device notification via the at least one user interface output device of the one client device by causing the one client device to convert the text into audio data and render the audio data via at least one speaker of the one client device.
6. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
determining to transmit the command to the one client device based on one or both of: the indication of the at least one IoT device in the IoT state change notification; and the state indication in the state change notification.
7. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
determining to transmit the command to the one client device based on one or both of: a current time of the day; and a current day of the week.
8. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
determining to transmit the command to the one client device based on one or both of: determining that at least one user is proximal to the one client device; and determining that the one client device is not in one or more predefined states; optionally wherein determining that the user is proximal to the one client device is based on one or more of: recency of user interaction with the one client device; client device sensor data from at least one sensor of the one client device; and additional sensor data from at least one sensor that is not a sensor of the one client device, but is proximal to the one client device.
9. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising: selecting a group of multiple of the candidate client devices, including the one client device; transmitting the command to the one client device based on the one client device being included in the selected group; transmitting a respective command to each of the other candidate client devices of the selected group based on the other candidate client devices being included in the selected group, wherein the respective commands each cause a respective one of the other candidate client devices to render a respective client device notification generated based on the indication of the at least one IoT device and based on the state indication.
10. The method of claim 9,
wherein the respective commands are each the same as the command and the respective client device notifications are each the same as the client device notification; or
wherein at least one of the respective commands differs from the command and wherein at least one of the respective client device notifications differs from the client device notification; and/or
wherein selecting the group of multiple of the candidate client devices comprises:
excluding a given client device, of the candidate client devices from the group, based on one or multiple of: determining that the given client device is in one or more predefined states; the indication of the at least one IoT device in the IoT state change notification; and the state indication in the IoT state change notification.
11. A computer program comprising instructions that when executed by one or more processors of an automated assistant computing system cause the computing system to perform the method of any preceding claim.
12. A computing system configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 10.
13. A system comprising:
the computing system of claim 12; and
at least one client device.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising at least one internet of things device.
15. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by one or more processors of an automated assistant computing system to perform the method of any one of claims 1 to 10.
</claims>
</document>
