<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P5/10,H01P5/103,H04B3/38,H04B3/52,H04B3/56,H04B3/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG, IRWIN
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
FARHAD, BARZEGAR
WILLIS, THOMAS M. III
BENNETT, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53434502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GUIDED WAVE COUPLERS AND METHODS THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A dielectric waveguide coupling system for launching and extracting guided wave communication transmissions from a wire. At millimeter-wave frequencies, wherein the wavelength is small compared to the macroscopic size of the equipment, transmissions can propagate as guided waves guided by a strip of dielectric material. Unlike conventional waveguides, the electromagnetic field associated with the dielectric waveguide is primarily outside of the waveguide. When this dielectric waveguide strip is brought into close proximity to a wire, the guided waves decouple from the dielectric waveguide and couple to the wire, and continue to propagate as guided waves about the surface of the wire.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a first coupling device (704) that facilitates receiving a first electromagnetic wave (706) at least in part on a first coupling device surface of the first coupling device(704), wherein the first coupling device surface does not fully surround a first transmission medium surface of a first transmission medium (702, 802), wherein the first electromagnetic wave conveys a signal from a base station device; a receiver coupled to the first coupling device (704), wherein the receiver is coupled to a first structure, wherein the receiver facilitates receiving, via the first structure, the first electromagnetic wave that propagates along the first coupling device surface of the first coupling device; a second coupling device (714) that facilitates transmitting a second electromagnetic wave (716) at least in part on a second coupling device surface of the second coupling device, wherein the second coupling device surface does not fully surround a second transmission medium surface of a second transmission medium (702, 804); and a transmitter coupled to the second coupling device (714), wherein the transmitter is coupled to a second structure, wherein the transmitter facilitates transmitting the second electromagnetic wave that propagates at least in part on the second coupling device surface of the second coupling device, wherein the second electromagnetic wave (716) is generated based on the first electromagnetic wave (706), wherein, in response to the second coupling device (714) being positioned with respect to the second transmission medium (702, 804), the second electromagnetic wave couples (716), at least in part, to the second transmission medium surface of the second transmission medium (702, 804) and travels at least partially around the second transmission medium surface, and wherein the second electromagnetic wave (716) has a wave propagation mode.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first and second transmission mediums are a same transmission medium (702).
3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, comprising a power amplifier, wherein the signal is a modulated signal that is amplified by the power amplifier.
4. The apparatus of claim 2 or 3, wherein the same transmission medium (702) is a power line.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the apparatus obtains power from the power line via a magnetic coupling.
6. The apparatus of claim 4 or 5, wherein the transmitter is part of a transceiver that facilitates launching and receiving electromagnetic waves in response to the apparatus being positioned with respect to the power line.
7. The apparatus of claim 4, 5 or 6, wherein each of a respective wavelength of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave is smaller than a circumference of the power line.
8. The apparatus of any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein the wave propagation mode of the second electromagnetic wave comprises a fundamental mode that has a field structure that covers a circumference of the power line.
9. The apparatus of any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the wave propagation mode of the second electromagnetic wave comprises an asymmetric mode that has a field magnitude that varies as a function of an angle around a longitudinal axis of the power line.
10. The apparatus of any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein the first and second coupling devices (704, 714) do not contact the power line when the apparatus is positioned with respect to the power line.
11. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the wave propagation mode of the second electromagnetic wave comprises both a fundamental mode and an asymmetric mode.
12. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein one or both of the first coupling device surface and the first transmission medium surface are insulated.
13. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the second electromagnetic wave (716) includes a carrier signal having a frequency in a range of 30 GHz to 60 GHz.
14. The apparatus of any preceding claim, wherein the second coupling device surface does not surround in substantial part the second transmission medium surface more than 180 degrees.
15. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first coupling device (704) of an apparatus, a first electromagnetic wave (706) at least in part on a first coupling device surface of the first coupling device (704), wherein the first coupling device surface does not fully surround a first transmission medium surface of a first transmission medium (702, 802), wherein the first electromagnetic wave conveys a signal from a base station device; receiving, by a receiver of the apparatus via a first structure, the first electromagnetic wave (706) that propagates along the first coupling device surface of the first coupling device (704), wherein the receiver is coupled to the first coupling device (704), wherein the receiver is coupled to the first structure; transmitting, by a second coupling device (714) of the apparatus, a second electromagnetic wave at least in part on a second coupling device surface of the second coupling device (714), wherein the second coupling device surface does not fully surround a second transmission medium surface of a second transmission medium (702, 804); and transmitting, by a transmitter of the apparatus, the second electromagnetic wave (716) that propagates at least in part on the second coupling device surface of the second coupling device (714), wherein the second electromagnetic wave (716) is generated based on the first electromagnetic wave (706), wherein the transmitter is coupled to the second coupling device (714), wherein the transmitter is coupled to a second structure, wherein, in response to the second coupling device (714) being positioned with respect to the second transmission medium (702), the second electromagnetic wave (716) couples, at least in part, to the second transmission medium surface of the second transmission medium (702, 804) and travels at least partially around the second transmission medium surface, and wherein the second electromagnetic wave (716) has a wave propagation mode.
</claims>
</document>
