<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAO, JUN
KUANG, JILONG
RAHMAN, MD MAHBUBUR
NEMATI, EBRAHIM
CHATTERJEE, SOUJANYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165417
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR MONITORING PATHOLOGICAL BREATHING PATTERNS
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes receiving sensor data, including audio data, of a user at an electronic device.The method also includes identifying respiratory phases of the user's breathing based on the sensor data. The method further includes converting the audio data into image data and identifying an abnormal sound associated with the user's breathing based on the image data. In addition, the method includes determining a pulmonary condition of the user based on the abnormal sound and the identified respiratory phases.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for pulmonary condition monitoring, the method comprising: receiving sensor data, including audio data, of a user at an electronic device; identifying respiratory phases of the user's breathing based on the sensor data; converting the audio data into image data; identifying an abnormal sound associated with the user's breathing based on the image data; and determining a pulmonary condition of the user based on the abnormal sound and the identified respiratory phases.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the sensor data also includes breathing waveform data of the user, the respiratory phases of the user's breathing identified using the breathing waveform data; and
further comprising synchronizing the breathing waveform data with the audio data.
3. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: determining a respiration phase of the user's breathing in which the abnormal sound occurs, wherein the respiration phase includes at least one of: an inspiration phase or an expiration phase; and determining the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the respiration phase.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the pulmonary condition of the user comprises: determining an inspiration phase to expiration phase ratio of the user's breathing; determining a duration of the abnormal sound; and determining an intensity of the abnormal sound.
5. The method of Claim 2, wherein: the audio data and the breathing waveform data are received from a plurality of sensors; and further comprising: identifying reliable data sources from among the plurality of sensors; synchronizing a subset of the breathing waveform data from the reliable data sources with a subset of the audio data from the reliable data sources, the subset of the audio data converted into the image data; determining an abnormal breathing waveform from the subset of the breathing waveform data; and determining the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the abnormal breathing waveform.
6. The method of Claim 2, wherein the sensor data includes inertial sensor data from at least one sensor; and
further comprising: extracting the breathing waveform data from the inertial sensor data; identifying an abnormal breathing waveform using the breathing waveform data; and determining the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the abnormal breathing waveform.
7. The method of Claim 1, further comprising: identifying a severity of the pulmonary condition; and transmitting alert data to the electronic device or another electronic device.
8. An electronic device comprising: at least one memory; and at least one processor coupled to the at least one memory, the at least one processor configured to: receive sensor data, including audio data, of a user; identify respiratory phases of the user's breathing based on the sensor data; convert the audio data into image data; identify an abnormal sound associated with the user's breathing based on the image data; and determine a pulmonary condition of the user based on the abnormal sound and the identified respiratory phases.
9. The electronic device of Claim 8, wherein: the sensor data also includes breathing waveform data of the user; and the at least one processor is further configured to: identify the respiratory phases of the user's breathing based on the breathing waveform data; and synchronize the breathing waveform data with the audio data.
10. The electronic device of Claim 8, wherein: the at least processor is further configured to determine a respiration phase of the user's breathing in which the abnormal sound occurs, wherein the respiration phase includes at least one of an inspiration phase or an expiration phase; and the at least one processor is configured to determine the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the respiration phase.
11. The electronic device of Claim 8, wherein, to determine the pulmonary condition of the user, the at least processor is configured to: determine an inspiration phase to expiration phase ratio of the user's breathing; determine a duration of the abnormal sound; and determine an intensity of the abnormal sound.
12. The electronic device of Claim 9, wherein: the at least processor is configured to receive the audio data and the breathing waveform data from a plurality of sensors; the at least processor is further configured to: identify reliable data sources from among the plurality of sensors; synchronize a subset of the breathing waveform data from the reliable data sources with a subset of the audio data from the reliable data sources, the subset of the audio data converted into the image data; and determine an abnormal breathing waveform from the subset of the breathing waveform data; and the at least processor is configured to determine the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the abnormal breathing waveform.
13. The electronic device of Claim 9, wherein: the sensor data includes inertial sensor data from at least one sensor; and the at least processor is further configured to: extract the breathing waveform data from the inertial sensor data; identify an abnormal breathing waveform using the breathing waveform data; and determine the pulmonary condition of the user further based on the abnormal breathing waveform.
14. The electronic device of Claim 8, wherein the at least processor is further configured to: identify a severity of the pulmonary condition; and transmit alert data to the electronic device or another electronic device.
15. A computer readable medium containing instructions that when executed cause at least one processor to perform a method of any one of claims 1 to 7.
</claims>
</document>
