<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BP EXPLORATION OPERATING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGNES, TOMMY
THIRUVENKATANATHAN, PRADYUMNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61832521
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WELL AND OVERBURDEN MONITORING USING DISTRIBUTED ACOUSTIC SENSORS
</title>

<abstract>
A method of detecting a flow condition within a wellbore can comprise receiving a first signal from a sensor, wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more depths within the wellbore and is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum. The method can include receiving a second signal comprising an indication of a pressure or flow within the wellbore, determining a plurality of frequency domain features of the acoustic signal across the frequency spectrum; comparing the plurality of frequency domain features to an overburden event signature; determining a presence of an overburden event at one or more depths within the wellbore based on the plurality of frequency domain features matching the overburden event signature at one or more depths in the wellbore; correlating the overburden event with the pressure or flow; and determining a presence and location of the overburden event within the wellbore based on the presence of the overburden event and the correlation of the overburden event with the pressure or flow.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting a flow condition within a wellbore, the method comprising: receiving a first signal from a sensor, wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more depths within the wellbore, wherein the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum, receiving a second signal comprising an indication of a pressure or flow within the wellbore, determining a plurality of frequency domain features of the acoustic signal across the frequency spectrum; comparing the plurality of frequency domain features to an overburden event signature, determining a presence of an overburden event at one or more depths within the wellbore based on the plurality of frequency domain features matching the overburden event signature at one or more depths in the wellbore, correlating the overburden event with the pressure or flow, determining a presence and location of the overburden event within the wellbore based on the presence of the overburden event and the correlation of the overburden event with the pressure or flow.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the overburden event comprises a self-induced hydraulic fracture.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the pressure or flow is indicative of a pressure or flowrate from a hydrocarbon zone in the wellbore.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising: integrating over time or time average an acoustic intensity within specified frequency bands for the overburden event, and determining a relative fluid flowrate change in the wellbore based on the integrated acoustic intensity.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising: obtaining a surface acoustic data set; determining a surface amplitude threshold based on the surface acoustic data set; and filtering an acoustic data set based on the surface amplitude threshold to produce the first signal, wherein the sample data set comprises acoustic data at the one or more depths having an amplitude above the surface amplitude threshold.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the plurality of frequency domain features of the sample data set comprises extracting the plurality of frequency domain features at each of the one or more depths having the amplitude above the surface amplitude threshold.
7. The method of any one of claims 1-6, where the plurality of frequency domain features comprise a spectral centroid and a spectral spread.
8. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the acoustic signal is received from a sensor in the wellbore, and wherein the sensor comprises a fibre optic cable disposed within the wellbore.
9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the acoustic signal comprise at least two of: a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, an RMS band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, spectral entropy, or a spectral autocorrelation function.
10. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein each frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is derived from across the frequency spectrum
11. A system for detecting a leak event within a wellbore, the system comprising: a receiver unit comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the receiver unit is configured to receive a first signal from a sensor disposed in a wellbore, wherein a processing application is stored in the memory, and wherein the processing application, when executed on the processor, configures the processor to: receive the first signal from the sensor, wherein the signal comprises an indication of an acoustic signal received at one or more depths within the wellbore, wherein the signal is indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum, receive a second signal comprising an indication of a pressure or flow within the wellbore, determine a plurality of frequency domain features of the acoustic signal across the frequency spectrum; and compare the plurality of frequency domain features to an overburden event signature, determine a presence of an overburden event at one or more depths within the wellbore based on the plurality of frequency domain features matching the overburden event signature at one or more depths in the wellbore, correlate the overburden event with the pressure or flow, determine a presence and location of the overburden event within the wellbore based on the presence of the overburden event and the correlation of the overburden event with the pressure or flow, and generate an output indicative of the presence and location of the overburden event.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the overburden event comprises a self-induced hydraulic fracture.
13. The system of claim 11 or 12, wherein the pressure or flow is indicative of a pressure or flowrate from a hydrocarbon zone in the wellbore.
14. The system of any one of claims 11 to 13, wherein the processing application, when executed on the processor, further configures the processor to: integrate over time or time average an acoustic intensity within specified frequency bands for the overburden event, and determine a relative fluid flowrate change in the wellbore based on the integrated acoustic intensity.
15. The system of any of claims 11 to 14, wherein the sensor comprises a fibre optic cable disposed within the wellbore.
16. The system of any of claims 11 to 15, wherein the plurality of frequency domain features of the acoustic signal comprise at least two of: a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, an RMS band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, spectral entropy, or a spectral autocorrelation function.
17. The system of any one of claims 11 to 16, wherein each frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is derived from across the frequency spectrum
</claims>
</document>
