<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F21/57,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIDEL, GIL
GRABOIS, DANI
HADAR, EITAN
HASSANZADEH, AMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68762672
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATING ATTACK GRAPHS IN AGILE SECURITY PLATFORMS
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations of the present disclosure include providing a graph that is representative of an enterprise network and includes nodes and edges, a set of nodes representing assets within the enterprise network, each edge representing a lateral movement path between assets, determining, for each asset, a contribution value indicating a contribution of an asset, determining lateral movements paths between a first asset and a second asset, providing a lateral movement path value representative of a difficulty in traversing a respective lateral movement path, identifying a set of remediations based on remediations defined for one or more vulnerabilities associated with issues identified for assets, each remediation mitigating a cyber-security risk within the enterprise network, and prioritizing the two or more remediations based on contribution values of assets, lateral movement path values of paths, and one of lateral movement complexity values of respective segments of paths and costs of respective remediations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for prioritizing remediations in systems of an enterprise, the method being executed by one or more processors and comprising: providing, by a security platform, graph data defining a graph that is representative of an enterprise network, the graph comprising nodes and edges between nodes, a set of nodes representing respective assets within the enterprise network, each edge representing at least a portion of one or more lateral movement paths between assets in the enterprise network; determining, for each asset, a contribution value indicating a contribution of a respective asset to operation of the process; determining two or more lateral movements paths between a first asset and a second asset within the graph; providing, for each lateral movement path, a lateral movement path value representative of a difficulty in traversing a respective lateral movement path within the enterprise network; identifying a set of remediations based on two or more remediations defined for one or more vulnerabilities associated with issues identified for respective assets, each remediation mitigating a cyber-security risk within the enterprise network;
and prioritizing the two or more remediations based on contribution values of assets, lateral movement path values of paths, and one of lateral movement complexity values of respective segments of paths and costs of respective remediations.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each lateral movement path value is determined based on at least one lateral movement complexity value and a preconditioned action.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the preconditioned action is performed before a lateral movement action of an attacked can be executed within the enterprise network.
4. The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein each segment represents a lateral movement between a first node and a second node within the graph.
5. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein after a path is remediated, a next path is selected based on lateral movement path value and remediations are re-prioritized.
6. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein the graph is generated by a discovery service, the discovery service detecting assets using one or more adaptors and respective asset discovery tools that generate an asset inventory and a network map of the enterprise network.
7. The method of any of the preceding claims, wherein each asset is identified as a target within the enterprise network, the target being selected based on a disruption occurring in response to an attack on the target.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the disruption is based on one or more metrics.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the one or more metrics comprise loss of technical resources, physical losses, disruption in services, and financial losses.
10. Computer program instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for prioritizing remediations in systems of an enterprise, the operations comprising: providing, by a security platform, graph data defining a graph that is representative of an enterprise network, the graph comprising nodes and edges between nodes, a set of nodes representing respective assets within the enterprise network, each edge representing at least a portion of one or more lateral movement paths between assets in the enterprise network; determining, for each asset, a contribution value indicating a contribution of a respective asset to operation of the process; determining two or more lateral movements paths between a first asset and a second asset within the graph; providing, for each lateral movement path, a lateral movement path value representative of a difficulty in traversing a respective lateral movement path within the enterprise network; identifying a set of remediations based on two or more remediations defined for one or more vulnerabilities associated with issues identified for respective assets, each remediation mitigating a cyber-security risk within the enterprise network;
and prioritizing the two or more remediations based on contribution values of assets, lateral movement path values of paths, and one of lateral movement complexity values of respective segments of paths and costs of respective remediations.
11. The computer program instructions of claim 10, wherein the computer program instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations as defined in one or more of claims 2 to 9.
12. A system, comprising: one or more computers; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the computing device and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations for prioritizing remediations in systems of an enterprise, the operations comprising: providing, by a security platform, graph data defining a graph that is representative of an enterprise network, the graph comprising nodes and edges between nodes, a set of nodes representing respective assets within the enterprise network, each edge representing at least a portion of one or more lateral movement paths between assets in the enterprise network; determining, for each asset, a contribution value indicating a contribution of a respective asset to operation of the process; determining two or more lateral movements paths between a first asset and a second asset within the graph; providing, for each lateral movement path, a lateral movement path value representative of a difficulty in traversing a respective lateral movement path within the enterprise network; identifying a set of remediations based on two or more remediations defined for one or more vulnerabilities associated with issues identified for respective assets, each remediation mitigating a cyber-security risk within the enterprise network; and prioritizing the two or more remediations based on contribution values of assets, lateral movement path values of paths, and one of lateral movement complexity values of respective segments of paths and costs of respective remediations.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations as defined in one or more of claims 2 to 9.
</claims>
</document>
