<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/04,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BASAVARSU, PURUSHOTTHAM GAUTHAM
REDDY, SREEDHAR SANNAREDDY
SARDESHMUKH, AVADHUT MOHANRAO
SHAH, SAPANKUMAR HITESHCHANDRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67777169
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR INVERSE INFERENCE FOR A MANUFACTURING PROCESS CHAIN
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides a system and method for inverse inference in a chain of manufacturing processes using Bayesian networks is provided. The method generates a composite Bayesian network model for a chain of manufacturing processes from Bayesian network models of the unit processes in the chain. The models of unit processes might have been learned independently in other contexts and stored in a knowledge repository. Models relevant for the current problem context are obtained from the knowledge repository and checked for compatibility using ontological information about their inputs and outputs. The obtained compatible Bayesian network models of unit processes are composed to generate a composite Bayesian network model for the chain. The generated composite Bayesian network model is sampled to perform inverse inference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system (100) configured to predict a configuration of a manufacturing process for desired properties of a product, the system (100) comprising: at least one memory (102) storing a plurality of instructions; one or more hardware processors (104) communicatively coupled with the at least one memory (102), wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured to execute one or more modules; a receiving module (108) configured to receive a description of a plurality of unit manufacturing processes of the manufacturing process and a set of desired output properties from the manufacturing process; a description module (110) configured to create an ontological description of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes and its one or more parameters; a learning module (112) configured to learn a plurality of Bayesian network models for each of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes, wherein the learned plurality of Bayesian network models are stored in a knowledge depository; a selection module (114) configured to select two or more unit manufacturing processes of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes; an obtaining module (116) configured to obtain the learned Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the selected two or more unit manufacturing processes from the knowledge repository; a validation module (118) configured to validate compatibility among the obtained each of the Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the selected two or more unit manufacturing processes using a set of predefined rules; and a generation module (120) configured to generate a composite model using compatible Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the two or more selected unit manufacturing processes to predict the configuration of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes, wherein the composite model is sampled to infer configuration for desired properties of the product to be manufactured.
2. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the ontology description includes semantic description for each of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes and its corresponding parameters.
3. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of unit manufacturing processes are in a predefined chain.
4. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of unit manufacturing processes include carburization, quenching and tempering.
5. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is the input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
6. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the value range of the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is same as value range of input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
7. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is a generalization of the input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
8. The system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the generated composite model is a Bayesian network model for the predefined chain obtained by appending successive Bayesian network model of each unit manufacturing process of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes.
9. A processor-implemented method (200) to predict configuration of a manufacturing process for desired properties of a product, the method comprising of: receiving, via one or more hardware processors, a description of a plurality of unit manufacturing processes of the manufacturing process and a set of desired output properties from the manufacturing process; creating, via one or more hardware processors, an ontological description of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes and its one or more parameters; learning, via one or more hardware processors, a plurality of Bayesian network models for each of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes, wherein the learned plurality of Bayesian network models are stored in a knowledge depository; selecting, via one or more hardware processors, two or more unit manufacturing processes of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes; obtaining, via one or more hardware processors, the learned Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the selected two or more unit manufacturing processes from the knowledge repository; validating, via one or more hardware processors, compatibility among the obtained each of the Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the selected two or more unit manufacturing processes using a set of predefined rules; and generating, via one or more hardware processors, a composite model using compatible Bayesian network model corresponding to each of the two or more selected unit manufacturing processes to predict the configuration of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes, wherein the composite model is sampled to infer configuration for desired properties of the product to be manufactured.
10. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the ontology description includes semantic description for each of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes and its corresponding parameters.
11. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of unit manufacturing processes are in a predefined chain.
12. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the plurality of unit manufacturing processes include carburization, quenching and tempering.
13. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is the input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
14. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the value range of the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is same as value range of input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
15. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the output of the first unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain is a generalization of the input to the second unit manufacturing process of the predefined chain.
16. The method (200) according to claim 9, wherein the generated composite model is a Bayesian network model for the predefined chain obtained by appending successive Bayesian network model of each unit manufacturing process of the plurality of unit manufacturing processes.
</claims>
</document>
