<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEZEMER, RICK
LONG, XI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63798795
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DERIVING INFORMATION ABOUT A PERSON'S SLEEP AND WAKE STATES FROM A SEQUENCE OF VIDEO FRAMES
</title>

<abstract>
For the purpose of deriving information about a person's sleep and wake states from a sequence of video frames, an arrangement (100) comprising a video camera (10) and a processing unit (20) is used. The video camera (10) serves for capturing a sequence of video frames during a time period, and the processing unit (20) is configured to process video frames provided by the video camera (10) and to provide output representative of the person's sleep and wake states during the time period. In particular, the processing unit (20) is configured to execute an algorithm according to which (i) a motion value-time relation, (ii) sets of features relating to respective epochs in the motion value-time relation and (iii) classifiers of the respective epochs are determined, wherein the algorithm is further configured to apply at least one of a personalized adaptive prior probability and a smoothing filter to the classifiers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Arrangement (100) designed to derive information about a person's sleep and wake states from a sequence of video frames, comprising - a video camera (10) for capturing a sequence of video frames during a time period, and - a processing unit (20) configured to process video frames provided by the video camera (10) and to provide output representative of the person's sleep and wake states during the time period, wherein the processing unit (20) is configured to execute an algorithm according to which - a motion value-time relation is determined from the video frames, - sets of features relating to respective epochs in the motion value-time relation are determined by extracting a number of different features from the motion values in each of the respective epochs, and - classifiers of the respective epochs are determined by classifying the respective sets of features relating to the respective epochs as being representative of the person's sleep or wake state, - wherein the algorithm is further configured to apply at least one of the following to the classifiers: - an adaptive prior probability determined for the particular person in dependence of the motion values of the respective epochs, and - a smoothing filter removing short period deviations from an overall pattern of classifiers in respect of successive epochs.
2. Arrangement (100) according to claim 1, wherein the algorithm is configured to determine the adaptive prior probability in dependence of a distribution of the motion values over the respective epochs.
3. Arrangement (100) according to claim 2, wherein the algorithm is configured to determine the adaptive prior probability in dependence of a number value of epochs with motion values which are larger than a reference motion value that is equal to or higher than zero in a total of epochs.
4. Arrangement (100) according to claim 3, wherein the algorithm is configured to assign a high prior probability for wake (PriW high) when the number value of epochs with motion values which are larger than the reference motion value is equal to or higher than a threshold (S), and to assign a low prior probability for wake (PriW low) when the number value of epochs with motion values which are larger than the reference motion value is lower than the threshold (S).
5. Arrangement (100) according to claim 3, wherein the algorithm is configured to determine an optimal relation between the number value of epochs with motion values which are larger than the reference motion value and a prior probability for wake.
6. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-5, wherein, in order to have the smoothing filter, the algorithm is configured to assess whether two sequences of epochs both representing a minimum length of time and involving sets of features to be classified as being representative of only one of the person's sleep or wake state are interrupted by one epoch or a limited number of epochs involving (a) set(s) of features to be classified as being representative of the other of the person's sleep or wake state, and if such is found to be the case, to set the classifier(s) of the one epoch or the limited number of epochs to be the same as the classifiers of the two sequences of epochs.
7. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-6, wherein the features to be extracted from the motion values in each of the respective epochs include at least one of (i) the mean of the motion values in each of the respective epochs and (ii) the number of motion values which are larger than a reference motion value that is equal to or higher than zero in each of the respective epochs.
8. Arrangement (100) according to claim 7, wherein the features to be extracted from the motion values in each of the respective epochs include a relative possibility of sleep, and wherein the algorithm is configured to include a step of determining a time distance of each of the respective epochs to a nearest epoch with a high activity level in a process of determining the relative possibility of sleep.
9. Arrangement (100) according to claim 7, wherein the features to be extracted from the motion values in each of the respective epochs include at least one of (i) a relative possibility of sleep, wherein the algorithm is configured to include a step of determining a time distance of each of the respective epochs to a nearest epoch with a high activity level in a process of determining the relative possibility of sleep, and wherein the algorithm is configured to identify the epochs with a high activity level by taking the epochs with the highest mean of the motion values, up to a predetermined maximum percentage of a total number of epochs, and (ii) a relative possibility of sleep, wherein the algorithm is configured to include a step of determining a time distance of each of the respective epochs to a nearest epoch with a high activity level in a process of determining the relative possibility of sleep, and wherein the algorithm is configured to identify the epochs with a high activity level by taking the epochs with the highest number of motion values which are larger than the reference motion value, up to a predetermined maximum percentage of a total number of epochs.
10. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-9, wherein the algorithm is configured to normalize the features.
11. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-10, wherein the algorithm is configured to determine machine learning classifiers on the basis of differences between (i) an initial set of classifiers determined on the basis of the features and (ii) a final set of classifiers determined by applying at least one of the adaptive prior probability and the smoothing filter, and to use the machine learning classifiers for making adjustments in the algorithm as far as determining the classifiers of the respective epochs is concerned.
12. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-11, wherein the algorithm is configured to apply 3D recursive search motion estimation for determining the motion value-time relation from the video frames.
13. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-12, wherein the algorithm is configured to apply Bayesian-based linear discriminant analysis for determining the classifiers of the respective epochs.
14. Arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-13, designed for use in infant care, wherein the algorithm is configured to classify the respective sets of features relating to the respective epochs as being representative of a care state of the infant (30) besides the infant's sleep or wake state, and wherein the algorithm is configured to set the classifier of an epoch to be a care state classifier when the epoch is an epoch with an activity level that is above a threshold chosen to distinguish between the wake state and the care state.
15. Computer program product comprising a program code of a computer program to make a computer execute the algorithm of the arrangement (100) according to any of claims 1-14 when the computer program is loaded on the computer.
</claims>
</document>
