<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/04,G05B17/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROCKWELL AUTOMATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAI, WEI
LIANO, KADIR
PURANIK, YASH P.
SAYYARRODSARI, BIJAN
SMITH, ALEXANDER B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68072104
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR LOCALLY MODELING A TARGET VARIABLE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for operating an industrial automation system may include receiving, via a first module of a plurality of modules in a control system, a plurality of datasets via at least a portion of the plurality of modules. The plurality datasets may include raw values without context regarding the plurality datasets. The method may then include identifying a subset of the plurality of datasets that influences a value of a target variable by analyzing the data without regard to the context, modeling a behavior of the target variable over time based on the subset of the plurality of datasets, and adjusting one or more operations of an automation device based on the model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An industrial automation system, comprising: an automation device; and a control system communicatively coupled to the automation device, wherein the control system comprises a first module of a plurality of modules configured to: receive a plurality of datasets via at least a portion of the plurality of modules, wherein the plurality of datasets comprise raw values without context regarding the plurality of datasets; identify a subset of the plurality of datasets that influences a value of a target variable by analyzing the raw values without regard to the context; model a behavior of the target variable over time based on the subset of the plurality of datasets; and adjust one or more operations of the automation device based on the model.
2. The industrial automation system of claim 1, wherein the first module is configured to identify the subset of the plurality of datasets by: group the plurality of datasets into a plurality of clusters based on a corresponding condition or operational state of the automation device; determine one or more relationships between each dataset in a respective subset of the plurality of datasets in each of the plurality of clusters; and identify a portion of datasets in each respective subset of the plurality of datasets based on the one or more relationships.
3. The industrial automation system of claim 2, wherein the first module is configured to generated a directed graph based on the one or more relationships, wherein the directed graph is indicative of at least one directional relationship between at least two datasets of the respective subset of the plurality of datasets.
4. The industrial automation system of claim 3, wherein the at least one directional relationship is represented by an arrow, and/or wherein the directed graph comprises a link between the at least two datasets.
5. The industrial automation system of claim 3 or 4, wherein the first module is configured to determine a strength of a relationship between the at least two datasets and alter the link based on the strength.
6. The industrial automation system of claim 5, wherein the link is altered by adjusting a thickness of a line representing the link.
7. The industrial automation system of one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the first module is configured to identify the portion of datasets by pruning the one or more relationships.
8. A method for operating an industrial automation system, comprising: receiving, via a first module of a plurality of modules in a control system, a plurality of datasets via at least a portion of the plurality of modules, wherein the plurality of datasets comprise raw values without context regarding the plurality of datasets; identifying, via the first module, a subset of the plurality of datasets that influences a value of a target variable by analyzing the data without regard to the context; modeling, via the first module, a behavior of the target variable over time based on the subset of the plurality of datasets; and adjusting, via the first module, one or more operations of an automation device based on the model.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein identifying the subset of the plurality of datasets comprises: grouping the plurality of datasets into a plurality of clusters based on a corresponding condition or operational state of the automation device; determining one or more relationships between each dataset in a respective subset of the plurality of datasets in each of the plurality of clusters; and identifying a portion of datasets in each respective subset of the plurality of datasets based on the one or more relationships.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising generating a directed graph based on the one or more relationships, wherein the directed graph is indicative of a plurality of directional relationships between an additional plurality of datasets of the respective subset of the plurality of datasets.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising pruning the plurality of directional relationships based on one or more loops created by a portion of the plurality of directional relationships, and/or based on whether one of the additional plurality of datasets comprises only one directional relationship associated therewith.
12. The method of claim 10 or 11, comprising determining a strength of a relationship between the at least two datasets and alter a weight of a link representative of the relationship based on the strength.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed, are configured to cause a processor to: receive a plurality of datasets via at least a portion of the plurality of modules, wherein the plurality of datasets comprise raw values without context regarding the plurality of datasets; identify a subset of the plurality of datasets that influences a value of a target variable by analyzing the data without regard to the context by: grouping the plurality of datasets into a plurality of clusters based on a corresponding condition or operational state of the automation device; determining one or more relationships between each dataset in a respective subset of the plurality of datasets in each of the plurality of clusters; and identifying a portion of datasets in each respective subset of the plurality of datasets based on the one or more relationships; generate a directed graph based on the one or more relationships, wherein the directed graph is indicative of a plurality of directional relationships between an additional plurality of datasets of the respective subset of the plurality of datasets; and display the plurality of clusters and the directed graph via an electronic display.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the computer-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to: receive an input indicative of a characterization of at least one of the plurality of clusters from a user; and model a behavior of the target variable over time based on the subset of the plurality of datasets and the input.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13 or 14, wherein the computer-executable instructions are configured to cause the processor to: eliminate one or more redundancies in the plurality of datasets based on a recursive Principal Component Analysis (PCA) operation; group the plurality of datasets into the plurality of clusters in an informational space based on a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) methodology; determine a strength of a relationship between the at least two datasets and alter the link based on the strength; and/or determine a strength of a relationship between the at least two datasets based on a model-based metric, a data-based metric, or both, and alter the link based on the strength.
</claims>
</document>
