<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/14,H04N1/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCREEN HOLDINGS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOKOUCHI, KENICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69005629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COLOR PREDICTION MODEL CONSTRUCTION METHOD AND COLOR PREDICTION MODEL CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A neural network which takes the spectral reflectances of a reference patch as input data and takes the spectral reflectances of a color prediction target patch as output data is prepared. Teaching data for learning is acquired (S100), and the relationship between the spectral reflectances of the reference patch and the spectral reflectances of the color prediction target patch is learned by the neural network (S110) using the teaching data. The spectral reflectances of the reference patch for a color prediction target ink are measured (S120), and the spectral reflectances which are the measurement results are given to the learned neural network (S130). Thereby, the spectral reflectances of the color prediction target patch for the color prediction target ink are predicted.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A color prediction model construction method for constructing a color prediction model for predicting a color of a patch in a color chart including a plurality of first type patches obtained by applying an ink on a base material with ink densities of a plurality of levels, the color prediction model construction method comprising: a teaching data acquisition step (S100, S200) of acquiring a plurality of pieces of teaching data including spectral characteristics of a reference patch that is a prescribed patch in the color chart and color values of a color prediction target patch in the color chart; and a learning step (S110, S210) of performing machine learning by a neural network that takes the spectral characteristics of the reference patch as input data and takes the color values of the color prediction target patch as output data, using the plurality of pieces of teaching data.
2. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 1, wherein the reference patch is a patch having a maximum ink density among the plurality of first type patches.
3. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 1, wherein the reference patch includes a patch having a maximum ink density among the plurality of first type patches and a patch having a minimum ink density among the plurality of first type patches.
4. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
the color prediction target patch includes N patches,
N pieces of the neural networks are prepared in one-to-one correspondence with the N patches, and
in the learning step (S110, S210), machine learning is performed for each neural network, using color values of a corresponding patch and the spectral characteristics of the reference patch.
5. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
the color prediction target patch includes N patches,
only one piece of the neutral network that takes the spectral characteristics of the reference patch as input data and takes color values of the N patches as output data is prepared, and
in the learning step (S110, S210), machine learning is performed by the only one piece of the neural network, using the spectral characteristics of the reference patch and the color values of the N patches.
6. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein
a color of each patch in the color chart is specified by K spectral characteristics,
the neural network includes an input layer, a hidden layer, and an output layer,
the input layer includes K units for one patch serving as the reference patch, and
the output layer includes K units for one patch serving as the color prediction target patch.
7. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 6, wherein the K spectral characteristics are spectral reflectances, the number of the spectral reflectances being obtained by dividing a wavelength range from 400 nm to 700 nm by a unit wavelength range of an appropriate size.
8. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the spectral characteristics are any one of spectral reflectances, spectral absorption factors, and spectral absorption coefficients.
9. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the color values are the spectral characteristics.
10. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 9, wherein the teaching data acquisition step (S100) includes: a color chart printing step (S102) of printing the color chart for generating each piece of teaching data; and a first spectral characteristic measurement step (S104) of measuring the spectral characteristics of the reference patch and the spectral characteristics of the color prediction target patch for the color chart printed in the color chart printing step.
11. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the color values are tone levels.
12. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 11, wherein the teaching data acquisition step (S200) includes: a color chart printing step (S202) of printing the color chart for generating each piece of teaching data; a first spectral characteristic measurement step (S204) of measuring the spectral characteristics of the reference patch and the spectral characteristics of the color prediction target patch for the color chart printed in the color chart printing step; and a color value conversion step (S206) of converting the spectral characteristics of the color prediction target patch measured in the first spectral characteristic measurement step into the tone levels.
13. The color prediction model construction method according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein the color chart further includes a plurality of second type patches obtained by applying the ink on a black ink with ink densities of the plurality of levels.
14. The color prediction model construction method according to claim 1, wherein
the color chart further includes a plurality of second type patches obtained by applying the ink on a black ink with ink densities of the plurality of levels, and
the reference patch includes a patch having a maximum ink density among the plurality of first type patches, and a patch having a minimum ink density among the plurality of second type patches.
15. A color prediction model construction program for constructing a color prediction model for predicting a color of a patch in a color chart including a plurality of first type patches obtained by applying an ink on a base material with ink densities of a plurality of levels, the color prediction model construction program causing a computer to execute: a teaching data reading step (S100, S200) of reading a plurality of pieces of teaching data including spectral characteristics of a reference patch that is a prescribed patch in the color chart and color values of a color prediction target patch in the color chart; and a learning step (S110, S210) of performing machine learning by a neural network that takes the spectral characteristics of the reference patch as input data and takes the color values of the color prediction target patch as output data, using the plurality of pieces of teaching data.
</claims>
</document>
