<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/02,G06N99/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q50/00,G06Q50/10,H04W88/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAE, SANG-JIN
KIM, TAE-DUK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66173265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA LEARNING SERVER, AND METHOD FOR GENERATING AND USING LEARNING MODEL THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a data learning server according to an embodiment. The data learning server includes a communicator configured to be communicable with an external device, a learning data acquisition unit configured to acquire production information of a home appliance and operation information using the communicator, a model learning unit configured to generate or update a learning model using the product information and the operation information, and a storage configured to store a learning model trained to estimate a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item as a result of the generating or updating learning model. Various embodiments are available. The data learning server may estimate a new trouble detection pattern related to a trouble of a home appliance using rule-based or AI algorithm. When estimating a region of interest using the AI algorithm, the data learning server may use machine learning, neural network, or deep learning algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data learning server comprising: a communicator configured to be communicable with an external device; a learning data acquisition unit configured to acquire production information of a home appliance and operation information related to a trouble of the home appliance using the communicator; a model learning unit configured to generate or update a learning model using the product information and the operation information; and a storage configured to store a learning model trained to estimate a trouble item of the home appliance and a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item using the generated or updated learning model.
2. The data learning server of claim 1, wherein the product information of the home appliance comprises at least one of a type, a manufacturing number, a product name, or a manufacturing date of the home appliance,
wherein the operation information of the home appliance comprises at least one of a driving mode set to the home appliance, frequency of the driving mode, performance information of the home appliance, a current measurement, a frequency measurement, a temperature measurement, a pressure measurement, a vibration measurement, or a trouble history.
3. The data learning server of claim 1, wherein the learning data acquisition unit further obtains position information of the home appliance,
wherein the model learning unit generates or updates a learning model using the product information, the operation information, and the position information.
4. A data learning server comprising: a storage configured to store a learning model trained to estimate a trouble item of a home appliance and a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item; a recognition data acquisition unit configured to acquire operation information of the home appliance; a model application unit configured to acquire a trouble item of the home appliance by applying the operation information to the learning model; and a communicator configured to transmit the acquired trouble item to an external device.
5. The data learning server of claim 4, wherein the data learning server controls the communicator to transmit, to the external device, information that is stored in the storage and is related to the new trouble detection pattern obtained by using the learning model.
6. The data learning server of claim 4, wherein the information related to the trouble detection pattern comprises at least one of a number of new trouble detection patterns, a trouble item related to the new trouble detection pattern, and importance of the new trouble detection pattern.
7. The data learning server of claim 4, wherein the data learning server, based on receiving a signal requesting information related to the new trouble detection pattern according to a preset interval or from the external device, controls the communicator to transmit the information related to the new trouble detection pattern to the external device.
8. An air-conditioner comprising: a display; a sensor configured to sense at least one of temperature inside an air-conditioner, temperature, pressure, or humidity outside the air-conditioner; a blower fan configured to discharge cold air to outside; a communicator configured to be communicable with an external device; and a processor configured to comprise a sensing value sensed through the sensor, based on operation information related to a trouble of the air-conditioner being transmitted to the external device, control the communicator to receive, from the external device, a trouble item that is a result of applying the operation information to a learning model, and control the display to display the received trouble item, wherein the learning model is trained using operation information of the air-conditioner.
9. A user terminal comprising: a display; a communicator; an inputter configured to receive a user input; and a processor configured to: based on receiving a user input signal requesting to execute a diagnosis function through the inputter, control the communicator to transmit a signal for requesting an operation corresponding to the trouble diagnosis function execution to an air-conditioner, and based on acquiring a trouble item estimated by applying the operation information of the air-conditioner to a learning model according to the signal for requesting an operation from an external device through the communicator, control the display to display the acquired trouble item.
10. A network system comprising: a learning server for generating or updating a learning model using an air-conditioner and learning data acquired from the air-conditioner, wherein the air-conditioner comprises: a display; a blower fan configured to discharge cold air to outside; a sensor configured to sense at least one of temperature inside the air-conditioner and at least one of temperature, pressure, or humidity outside the air-conditioner; a communicator configured to be communicable with an external device; and a processor configured to comprise product information of the air-conditioner and a sensing value sensed through the sensor, and control the communicator to transmit operation information related to the trouble of the air-conditioner to an external device, wherein the data learning server comprises: a learning data acquisition unit configured to acquire the product information and the operation information; a model learning unit configured to generate or update a learning model using the acquired product information and the operation information; and a storage configured to store a learning model that is trained to estimate a trouble item of the air-conditioner and a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item using the generated or updated learning model.
11. A network system comprising: an air-conditioner and a data learning server providing a trouble item using recognition data acquired from the air-conditioner, wherein the air-conditioner comprises: a display; a blower fan for discharging cold air to an outside; a sensor configured to sense at least one of temperature inside the air-conditioner and at least one of temperature, pressure, and humidity of the air-conditioner; a communicator capable of communicating with an external device; and a processor configured to comprise a sensing value sensed through the sensor and control the communicator to transmit operation information related to a trouble of the air-conditioner to the external device, wherein the data learning server comprises: a storage configured to store a trouble item of the air-conditioner and a learning model trained to estimate a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item; a recognition data acquisition unit configured to acquire the operation information; a model application unit configured to acquire a trouble item of the air-conditioner by applying the operation information to the learning model; and a communicator configured to transmit the trouble item to the external device.
12. A method for generating a learning model, the method comprising: acquiring production information of a home appliance and operation information related to a trouble of the home appliance; generating or updating a learning model using the product information and the operation information; and storing a learning model trained to estimate a trouble item and a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item using the generated or updated learning model.
13. A method for using a learning model, the method comprising: storing a learning model learned to estimate a trouble item of a home appliance and a new trouble detection pattern related to the trouble item; acquiring operation information of the home appliance; acquiring a trouble item of the home appliance by applying the operation information to the learning model; and transmitting the acquired trouble item to an external device.
14. A controlling method of an air-conditioner, the method comprising: sensing at least one of temperature inside an air-conditioner, temperature, pressure, or humidity outside the air-conditioner; including the sensing result and transmitting operation information related to the trouble of the air-conditioner to an external device; receiving a trouble item estimated by applying the operation information to a learning model from the external device; and displaying the received trouble item on a display, wherein the learning model is trained using operation information of the air-conditioner.
15. A method for controlling an air-conditioner using a user terminal, the method comprising: receiving a user input signal requesting to execute a trouble diagnosis function; transmitting a signal for requesting an operation corresponding to the trouble diagnosis function execution to an air-conditioner; receiving a trouble item estimated by applying the operation information of the air-conditioner to a learning model according to the signal for requesting an operation; and displaying the received trouble item on a display.
</claims>
</document>
