<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IMMERSION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABOUNE, JAMAL
MAALOUF, JOHNNY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68426233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR PROVIDING CUSTOMIZABLE HAPTIC PLAYBACK
</title>

<abstract>
One illustrative system disclosed herein includes a computing device (300) that comprises a memory (304) and a processor (302) in communication with the memory. The processor can generate content that can be provided to a user. The processor can obtain (520) data indicating various haptic tracks associated with various content elements in the content. The processor can determine a selection of a haptic track of the various haptic tracks associated with a particular content element of the various content elements. The processor can determine a characteristic of the haptic track and then transmit a haptic signal associated with the haptic track to a haptic output device, which can receive the haptic signal and output the haptic track.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium (304); and a processor (302) communicatively coupled to the non-transitory computer-readable medium, wherein the processor is configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: obtain (510) content to be provided to a user; obtain (520) data identifying a plurality of haptic tracks associated with a plurality of content elements of the content; determine (530) a selection of a content element of the plurality of content elements; identify (540) a haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks, the haptic track associated with the selected content element; determine (550) a haptic effect based on the haptic track; transmit (570) a content signal based on the content to an output device, the output device configured output at least a portion of the content; and transmit (570) a haptic signal to a haptic output device (322), the haptic signal configured to cause the haptic output device to output the haptic effect corresponding to the at least a portion of the content.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising:
a sensor (318) communicatively coupled to the processor (302), wherein the processor is further configured to determine the selection of the content element by: receiving one or more signals from the sensor; and in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the content element based on the one or more signals, selecting the content element.
3. The system of any of claims 1-2, wherein the processor (302) is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium (304) to determine the selection of the content element by:
in response to determining that the user is pointing at the content element of the plurality of content elements, selecting the content element.
4. The system of any of claims 1-3, further comprising: a touch surface (316); a sensor (318) communicatively coupled to the processor (302) and the touch surface, the sensor configured to: detect a pressure associated with a contact on the touch surface; and transmit one or more signals associated with the pressure, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium (304) to: receive, from the sensor, the signal associated with the pressure; determine an amount of pressure based on the one or more signals; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the amount of pressure.
5. The system of any of claims 1-4, wherein the processor (302) is further configured to: determine a distance between the user and the selected content element; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the distance.
6. The system of any of claims 1-5, further comprising:
a sensor (318) communicatively coupled to the processor (302), wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium (304) to: A) receive one or more signals from the sensor; determine a movement of the user based on the one or more signals; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the movement of the user; and/or, B) receive one or more signals from the sensor; and
in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the selected content element associated with the haptic track based on the one or more signals, determine a characteristic of the haptic track.
7. The system of any of claims 1-6, wherein the processor (302) is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium (304) to: use a machine-learning technique to predict a second haptic track based on the identification of the haptic track; and output a recommendation of the second haptic track.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor (302) is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium (304) to use the machine-learning technique to predict the second haptic track by: comparing, using the machine-learning technique, the haptic track and one or more other haptic tracks of the plurality of haptic tracks to determine a similarity between the haptic track and the second haptic track; and predicting, using the machine-learning technique, the second haptic track based on the similarity between the haptic track and the second haptic track.
9. A method comprising: obtaining (510) content to be provided to a user; obtaining (520) data identifying a plurality of haptic tracks associated with a plurality of content elements of the content; determining (530) a selection of a content element of the plurality of content elements; identifying (540) a haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks, the haptic track associated with the selected content element; determining (550) a haptic effect based on the haptic track; transmitting (570) a content signal based on the content to an output device, the output device configured output at least a portion of the content; and transmitting (570) a haptic signal to a haptic output device (322), the haptic signal configured to cause the haptic output device to output the haptic effect corresponding to the at least a portion of the content.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining a characteristic of the haptic effect;
wherein the step of transmitting a haptic signal to a haptic output device comprises the haptic signal being configured to cause the haptic output device (322) to output the haptic effect based on the characteristic and corresponding to the at least a portion of the content.
11. The method of any of claims 9-10, further comprising modifying a characteristic of the haptic effect.
12. The method of any of claims 9-11, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises: outputting data indicating the plurality of haptic tracks associated with the plurality of content elements in the content; and receiving the selection of the haptic track.
13. The method of any of claims 9-12, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises:
determining a distance between the user and the selected content element; and any one or more of: A) selecting the haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks based on the distance; B) identifying the haptic track is based on the distance between the user and the selected content element.
14. The method of any of claims 9-13, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises: receiving a sensor signal from a sensor (318); and in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the selected content element based on the sensor signal, identifying the haptic track associated with the particular content element.
15. The method of any of claims 10-14, wherein determining the characteristic of the haptic track comprises any one or more of: A) receiving a sensor signal from a sensor (318), the sensor signal indicating a pressure associated with a contact on a touch surface (316) of a computing device (300);
determining an amount of pressure based on the sensor signal; and, determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the amount of pressure; B) determining a distance between the user and the selected content element; and,
determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the distance; C) receiving a sensor signal from a sensor, the sensor signal indicating a movement of the user; and,
determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the movement of the user.
</claims>
</document>
