<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU ON-LINE NETWORK TECHNOLOGY (BEIJING) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHEN, RUIXIANG
TAO, JI
HU, YUNYAN
LIU, RUI
ZHANG, YALING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64916262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA PROCESSING METHOD, APPARATUS AND READABLE STORAGE MEDIUM FOR EVALUATING RIDE COMFORTABILITY
</title>

<abstract>
The invention provides a data processing method, apparatus and readable storage medium for evaluating ride comfortability, by receiving evaluation data input by a user through a data collection port, the evaluation data includes evaluation information of the user for each driving action of a vehicle on which the user rides, determining environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters when the vehicle executes each driving action, according to the evaluation information corresponding to each driving action of the vehicle, as well as the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters, training a preset deep learning algorithm model, to obtain an evaluation model for outputting ride comfortability, the data processing flow for ride comfortability is simplified by establishing an evaluation model that can be configured to output ride comfortability, the processing efficiency is improved; it also makes the evaluation of the obtained ride comfortability more objective, the evaluation model can be adapted to the evaluation of vehicles of various types and various test ride environments, with higher universality.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data processing method for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: receiving evaluation data input by a user through a data collection port, the evaluation data comprising evaluation information of the user for each driving action of a vehicle on which the user rides; determining environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters when the vehicle executes each driving action; and according to the evaluation information corresponding to each driving action of the vehicle, as well as the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters, training a preset deep learning algorithm model, to obtain an evaluation model for outputting ride comfortability.
2. The data processing method according to claim 1, wherein, the evaluation information comprises one or more of the following information:
feeling of pushing a back, centrifugal feeling, bumpy feeling, forward feeling, frustration feeling and swaying feeling.
3. The data processing method according to claim 1, wherein, the determining environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters when the vehicle executes each driving action, comprises: determining an execution location and an execution time when the vehicle executes each driving action; determining the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters according to the execution location and the execution time.
4. The data processing method according to any one of claims 1-3, wherein, the environmental information comprises one or more of the following information: weather information, road condition information and road surface status information; and/or, the vehicle driving parameters comprise one or more of the following information:
vehicle model, driving speed, vehicle acceleration, rate of acceleration change, throttle output, brake output, turning angle, front and rear tilting angle, left and right swinging angle.
5. A data processing method for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: obtaining a driving action to be evaluated, and determining environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated; inputting the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated into the evaluation model constructed by the method of any one of claims 1-4, and outputting the ride comfortability corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated.
6. A data processing apparatus for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: an evaluation information collection module, configured to receive evaluation data input by a user through a data collection port, the evaluation data comprising evaluation information of the user for each driving action of a vehicle on which the user rides; a processing module, configured to determine environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters when the vehicle executes each driving action; a training module, configured to, according to the evaluation information corresponding to each driving action of the vehicle, as well as the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters, train a preset deep learning algorithm model, to obtain an evaluation model for outputting ride comfortability.
7. The data processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein, the evaluation information comprises one or more of the following information:
feeling of pushing a back, centrifugal feeling, bumpy feeling, forward feeling, frustration feeling and swaying feeling.
8. The data processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein, the processing module is specifically configured to: determine an execution location and an execution time when the vehicle executes each driving action; determine the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters according to the execution location and the execution time.
9. The data processing apparatus according to any one of claims 6-8, wherein, the environmental information comprises one or more of the following information: weather information, road condition information and road surface status information; and/or, the vehicle driving parameters comprise one or more of the following information:
vehicle model, driving speed, vehicle acceleration, rate of acceleration change, throttle output, brake output, turning angle, front and rear tilting angle, left and right swinging angle.
10. A data processing apparatus for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: a data collection module, configured to obtain a driving action to be evaluated, and determine environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated; an identification module, configured to input the environmental information and/or vehicle driving parameters corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated into the evaluation model constructed by the method of any one of claims 1-4, and output the ride comfortability corresponding to the driving action to be evaluated.
11. The data processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein,
the evaluation information comprises one or more of the following information:
feeling of pushing a back, centrifugal feeling, bumpy feeling, forward feeling, frustration feeling and swaying feeling.
12. The data processing apparatus according to claim 10, wherein, the environmental information comprises one or more of the following information: weather information, road condition information and road surface status information; and/or, the vehicle driving parameters comprise one or more of the following information:
vehicle model, driving speed, vehicle acceleration, rate of acceleration change, throttle output, brake output, turning angle, front and rear tilting angle, left and right swinging angle.
13. A data processing apparatus for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: a memory, a processor coupled to the memory, and a computer program stored on the memory and executable on the processor, wherein,
the processor performs the method of any one of claims 1-4 when executing the computer program.
14. A data processing apparatus for evaluating ride comfortability, comprising: a memory, a processor coupled to the memory, and a computer program stored on the memory and executable on the processor, wherein,
the processor performs the method of claim 5 when executing the computer program.
15. A readable storage medium, comprising a program, when executed on a terminal, causing the terminal to perform the method of any one of claims 1-4.
</claims>
</document>
