<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LILY MEDTECH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SEKI, MIKA
TAKAMURA, YU
YUGE, KAZUO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65994612
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL IMAGING APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
This medical imaging apparatus is provided with: a bathtub for housing a test object, which is at least a part of the body of a testee; a measurement device that is provided so as to be movable in a prescribed direction, that irradiates the interior of the bathtub with radiation waves, and that has a group of elements for receiving scattered radiation waves; and a control unit which causes the measurement device to take a measurement, in the case when at least one of the position of the test object within a plane orthogonal to the prescribed direction, the position of the test object in the prescribed direction, and the continuity of data measured by the measurement device, satisfies a predetermined condition. Because of this configuration, the present invention is able to acquire data that encompasses the entirety of a site subject to measurement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical imaging apparatus comprising: a bath tank for accommodating a test subject, the test subject being at least a portion of a body of a human subject; a measurement device movable in a predetermined direction, the measurement device including a group of elements to emit a radiation wave into the bath tank and receive a scattered radiation wave; and a control unit for measuring by the measurement device when at least one of a location of the test subject within a plane orthogonal to the predetermined direction, a location of the test subject in the predetermined direction, and continuity of data measured by the measurement device satisfies a predetermined condition.
2. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit determines the location of the test subject on the basis of a location of a predetermined in-body tissue of the human subject.
3. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the control unit determines an initial location where the measurement device starts measurement and/or a termination location where the measurement device terminates measurement, on the basis of the location of the predetermined in-body tissue of the human subject.
4. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the predetermined in-body tissue is an in-body tissue located on the opposite side from a region subject to measurement by the measurement device relative to the initial location where the measurement device starts measurement or the termination location where the measurement device terminates measurement.
5. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein the test subject is a breast of the human subject and the in-body tissue is a rib, chest wall, or pectoralis major muscle of the human subject.
6. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 5, further comprising a location detection unit for detecting the location of the test subject within the plane orthogonal to the predetermined direction and/or the location of the test subject in the predetermined direction, the location detection unit comprising a location detection ultrasonic element.
7. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the location detection unit comprises: a first location detection unit for detecting the location of the test subject within the plane orthogonal to the predetermined direction; and a second location detection unit for detecting the location of the test subject in the predetermined direction, and at least one of the first location detection unit and the second location detection unit is comprised of the location detection ultrasonic element.
8. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the radiation wave is an ultrasonic wave and the group of elements is a group of ultrasonic elements for measurement.
9. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 6 or 7, wherein the radiation wave is an ultrasonic wave, the group of elements is a group of ultrasonic elements for measurement, and the location detection ultrasonic element is constituted by a plurality of groups of the ultrasonic elements for measurement being used to also serve as the location detection ultrasonic element.
10. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 9, further comprising:
a report unit for issuing a report if the control unit determines that the location of the test subject is not within a predetermined range.
11. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the report unit provides guidance for a movement destination of the test subject.
12. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 11, wherein, if the measured location of the test subject is within a predetermined range, the control unit starts a processing for measuring data continuously while moving the measurement device in the predetermined direction.
13. The medical imaging apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 12, wherein, if it is determined that degree of deviation in the location of the test subject or discontinuity of the data measured at time of measurement does not satisfy the predetermined condition, the control unit performs any of: a processing in which the measurement is continued and the measured data is corrected; a processing in which the location of the measurement device in a movement direction is returned by a predetermined distance and the measurement is redone; and a processing in which the measurement is restarted from beginning.
14. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 13, wherein
the process in which the measurement is continued and the measured data is corrected is performed if it is determined that the degree of deviation in the location of the test subject or the discontinuity of the measured data exceeds a first acceptable range serving as the predetermined condition,
the process in which the location of the measurement device in the movement direction is returned by the predetermined distance and measurement is redone is performed if it is determined that the degree of deviation in the location of the test subject or the discontinuity of the measured data exceeds a second acceptable range serving as the predetermined condition, and
the process in which the measurement is restarted from the beginning is performed if it is determined that the degree of deviation in the location of the test subject or the discontinuity of the measured data exceeds a third acceptable range serving as the predetermined condition,
the first acceptable range, the second acceptable range, and the third acceptable range being mutually different numerical ranges.
15. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the determination on whether the degree of deviation in the location of the test subject or the discontinuity of the measured data satisfies the predetermined condition is made on the basis of a predetermined algorithm.
16. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the predetermined algorithm is configured to compare an amount of shift in a cross-sectional area or a location of a center of gravity of the test subject with an amount of shift serving as the predetermined condition.
17. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the predetermined algorithm is configured to determine a value of correlation between image patterns of consecutive pieces of the measured data using an image correlation method, and to compare the value of correlation with a value of correlation serving as the predetermined condition.
18. The medical imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the predetermined algorithm is configured to compare an amount of shift in a geometric shape of a segment identified in the measured data with an amount of shift serving as the predetermined condition.
19. A program for a medical imaging apparatus to execute steps, the medical imaging apparatus comprising: a bath tank for accommodating a test subject, the test subject being at least a portion of a body of a human subject; and a measurement device movable in a predetermined direction, the measurement device including a group of elements to emit a radiation wave into the bath tank and receive a scattered radiation wave; the steps comprising: determining whether at least one of a location of the test subject within a plane orthogonal to the predetermined direction, a location of the test subject in the predetermined direction, and continuity of data measured by the measurement device satisfies a predetermined condition, and using a result of the determination to determine whether to perform measurement with the measurement device.
</claims>
</document>
