<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMITAY, DANIEL
GARCIA, TIMOTHY JORDAN
SHAHNAWAZ, AMER
SPIEGEL, EVAN
GRIPPI, DANIEL VINCENT
LIN, ANDREW
JOHNSON, JEFFREY ARTHUR
MISRA, GAURAV
LIN, WALTON
GALE, MAXWELL
BRODY, JONATHAN
KATES, SHERIDAN
SAMARANAYAKE, SURAJ VINDANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63918792
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAP-BASED GRAPHICAL USER INTERFACE INDICATING GEOSPATIAL ACTIVITY METRICS
</title>

<abstract>
A server-side administrative interface for a social media platform allows for restriction of defined geographical areas. Social media items originating from such restricted areas are automatically filtered or age-restricted for availability via a map-based graphical user interface of the social media platform.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a server system for a social media platform, defining multiple geographical areas; associating a respective catchment interval with each of the multiple geographical areas, such that at least two different geographical areas have different respective catchment intervals; and making available for user access via the social media platform a set of ephemeral social media items, each of which has: respective geo-tag information indicating a corresponding geographic location; and a respective timestamp, an age value of the ephemeral social media item being indicated by a time elapsed since the corresponding timestamp; wherein the set of ephemeral social media items is limited to items for which the respective age value is smaller than the applicable catchment interval, the applicable catchment interval being, for each item, the catchment interval of that one of the multiple geographical areas which corresponds to the respective geographic location of the item.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: by default assigning a default catchment interval to geographical areas; and assigning a modified catchment interval to a particular geographical area, the modified catchment interval being different from the default catchment interval.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: enabling generation of a map-based graphical user interface, GUI, for the social media platform on a user device, the map-based GUI having an interactive map via which geo-tagged social media content is accessible on the user device; receiving a user request via the map-based GUI to access social media items associated with the particular geographic area; and responsive to the user request, causing display, in association with the particular geographic area of the interactive map, of a plurality of social media items selected from the set of ephemeral social media items, the plurality of social media items being limited to items which: have a geotag-indicated geographic location that falls within the particular geographic area; and have an age value smaller than the modified catchment interval.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the modified catchment interval is shorter than the default catchment interval.
5. The method of any one of claims 3-4, further comprising: causing display in the map of social media activity information that indicates an underlying social media activity metric within the particular geographic area, wherein social media items upon which the underlying social media activity metric is based are limited to items having respective age values smaller than the modified catchment interval.
6. The method of any one of claims 3-4, further comprising: causing display in the map of social media activity information that indicates an underlying social media activity metric for the particular geographic area; wherein the method further comprises calculating the underlying social media activity metric similarly for different geographical areas, without regard to differences between respective catchment intervals.
7. The method of any one of claims 3-6, wherein assignment of the modified catchment interval is by operator input received via a curation interface generated by the server system.
8. The method of any one of claims 3-6, wherein the assigning of the modified catchment interval comprises an at least partially automated procedure, being based on automated identification of candidates for catchment interval variation based on predefined social media activity metrics.
9. A system comprising: one or more computer processor devices; and one or more memories having stored thereon computer-readable instructions that configure the one or more computer processor devices, when executing the instructions, to perform operations comprising: at a server system for a social media platform, defining multiple geographical areas; associating a respective catchment interval with each of the multiple geographical areas, such that at least two different geographical areas have different respective catchment intervals; and making available for user access via the social media platform a set of ephemeral social media items, each of which has: respective geo-tag information indicating a corresponding geographic location; and a respective timestamp, an age value of the ephemeral social media item being indicated by a time elapsed since the corresponding timestamp; wherein the set of ephemeral social media items is limited to items for which the respective age value is smaller than the applicable catchment interval, the applicable catchment interval being, for each item, the catchment interval of that one of the multiple geographical areas which corresponds to the respective geographic location of the item.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions further configure the one or more computer processor devices to perform operations comprising: by default assigning a default catchment interval to geographical areas; and assigning a modified catchment interval to a particular geographical area, the modified catchment interval being different from the default catchment interval.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the instructions further configure the one or more computer processor devices to perform operations comprising: enabling generation of a map-based graphical user interface, GUI, for the social media platform on a user device, the map-based GUI having an interactive map via which geo-tagged social media content is accessible on the user device; receiving a user request via the map-based GUI to access social media items associated with the particular geographic area; and responsive to the user request, causing display, in association with the particular geographic area of the interactive map, of a plurality of social media items selected from the set of ephemeral social media items, the plurality of social media items being limited to items which: have a geotag-indicated geographic location that falls within the particular geographic area; and have an age value smaller than the modified catchment interval.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further configure the one or more computer processor devices to perform operations comprising: causing display in the map of social media activity information that indicates an underlying social media activity metric within the particular geographic area, wherein social media items upon which the underlying social media activity metric is based are limited to items having respective age values smaller than the modified catchment interval.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions further configure the one or more computer processor devices to perform operations comprising: causing display in the map of social media activity information that indicates an underlying social media activity metric for the particular geographic area; and calculating the underlying social media activity metric similarly for different geographical areas, without regard to differences between respective catchment intervals.
14. The system of any one of claims 11-13, wherein the instructions configure the one or more computer processor devices such that the assigning of the modified catchment interval comprises an at least partially automated procedure, being based on automated identification of candidates for catchment interval variation based on predefined social media activity metrics.
15. A computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions for causing a machine, when executing the instructions, to perform operations comprising: at a server system for a social media platform, defining multiple geographical areas; associating a respective catchment interval with each of the multiple geographical areas, such that at least two different geographical areas have different respective catchment intervals; and making available for user access via the social media platform a set of ephemeral social media items, each of which has: respective geo-tag information indicating a corresponding geographic location; and a respective timestamp, an age value of the ephemeral social media item being indicated by a time elapsed since the corresponding timestamp; wherein the set of ephemeral social media items is limited to items for which the respective age value is smaller than the applicable catchment interval, the applicable catchment interval being, for each item, the catchment interval of that one of the multiple geographical areas which corresponds to the respective geographic location of the item.
</claims>
</document>
