<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STRADVISION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOO, SUKHOON
CHO, HOJIN
JANG, TAEWOONG
JE, HONGMO
JEONG, KYUNGJOONG
KIM, HAK-KYOUNG
KIM, INSU
KIM, KYE-HYEON
KIM, YONGJOONG
NAM, WOONHYUN
RYU, WOOJU
SUNG, MYUNGCHUL
YEO, DONGHUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67477548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING METHOD AND LEARNING DEVICE FOR GENERATION OF VIRTUAL FEATURE MAPS WHOSE CHARATERISTICS ARE SAME AS OR SIMILAR TO THOSE OF REAL FEATURE MAPS BY USING GAN CAPABLE OF BEING APPLIED TO DOMAIN ADAPTATION TO BE USED IN VIRTUAL DRIVING ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
A method of learning for deriving virtual feature maps from virtual images, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of real feature maps derived from real images, by using GAN including a generating network and a discriminating network capable of being applied to domain adaptation is provided to be used in virtual driving environments. The method includes steps of: (a) a learning device instructing the generating network to apply convolutional operations to an input image, to thereby generate a output feature map, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of the real feature maps; and (b) instructing a loss unit to generate losses by referring to an evaluation score, corresponding to the output feature map, generated by the discriminating network. By the method using a runtime input transformation, a gap between virtuality and reality can be reduced, and annotation costs can be reduced.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of learning for deriving one or more virtual feature maps from one or more virtual images, whose one or more characteristics are same as or similar to those of one or more real feature maps derived from one or more real images, by using GAN(Generative Adversarial Network) including a generating network and a discriminating network, comprising steps of: (a) a learning device, if at least one input image which is one of the virtual images is acquired, instructing the generating network to apply one or more convolutional operations to the input image, to thereby generate at least one output feature map, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of the real feature maps; and (b) the learning device, if at least one evaluation score, corresponding to the output feature map, generated by the discriminating network is acquired, instructing a first loss unit to generate at least one first loss by referring to the evaluation score, and learning parameters of the generating network by backpropagating the first loss.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the learning device instructs the discriminating network, capable of determining whether its own inputted feature map is one of the real feature maps or one of the virtual feature maps, to generate at least one probability of the output feature map being real or fake, to thereby generate the evaluation score.
3. The method of Claim 2, wherein the discriminating network, if the output feature map, at least one real training feature map generated by using some of the real images, and their corresponding GTs are acquired, instructs a second loss unit, corresponding to the discriminating network, to generate at least one second loss by referring to (i) evaluation scores for training on the output feature map and the real training feature map generated by the discriminating network, and (ii) the GTs, and learn parameters thereof by backpropagating the second loss, to thereby determine a probability of some feature map to be inputted being real or fake.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein the learning device instructs an object detection network to generate each of one or more class scores corresponding to each of one or more objects included in the input image by referring to the output feature map.
5. The method of Claim 4, wherein the learning device instructs a third loss unit to generate at least one third loss by referring to the class scores and their corresponding GTs, and learn parameters of the generating network and the object detection network by backpropagating the third loss.
6. The method of Claim 4, wherein the object detection network, if each of one or more ROIs on the input image generated by an RPN is acquired, instructs a convolutional layer to apply one or more convolutional operations to each of regions on the output feature map corresponding to each of the ROIs, to thereby generate each of partial feature maps per each of ROIs, and instructs an FC layer to generate information on each of one or more classes of the objects included in the input image by referring to each of the partial feature maps, to thereby generate the class scores.
7. The method of Claim 6, wherein the RPN generates at least one RPN loss by referring to each of the ROIs and each of their corresponding GTs, and learns parameters thereof by backpropagating the RPN loss, to thereby raise probabilities of some objects included in some images to be inputted being located in some ROIs generated by the RPN.
8. A method of testing for deriving one or more virtual feature maps from one or more virtual images, whose one or more characteristics are same as or similar to those of one or more real feature maps for testing derived from one or more real images, by using GAN(Generative Adversarial Network) including a generating network and a discriminating network, comprising a step of:
on condition that (1) a learning device has instructed the generating network to apply one or more convolutional operations to at least one training image which is one of the virtual images, to thereby generate at least one output feature map for training, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of one or more real feature maps for training, and (2) the learning device has instructed a first loss unit to generate at least one first loss by referring to at least one evaluation score, corresponding to the output feature map for training, generated by the discriminating network, and learning parameters of the generating network by backpropagating the first loss; a testing device, if at least one test image which is one of the virtual images is acquired, instructing the generating network to apply said one or more convolutional operations to the test image, to thereby generate at least one output feature map for testing, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of the real feature maps for testing.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein an object detection network detects one or more objects included in the test image by referring to the output feature map for testing.
10. The method of Claim 9, wherein the test image is acquired through a camera included in an autonomous vehicle including the object detection network, and the object detection network supports the autonomous vehicle by using the test image.
11. A learning device for deriving one or more virtual feature maps from one or more virtual images, whose one or more characteristics are same as or similar to those of one or more real feature maps derived from one or more real images, by using GAN(Generative Adversarial Network) including a generating network and a discriminating network, comprising: at least one memory that stores instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions to perform processes of: (I) if at least one input image which is one of the virtual images is acquired, instructing the generating network to apply one or more convolutional operations to the input image, to thereby generate at least one output feature map, whose characteristics are same as or similar to those of the real feature maps, and (II), if at least one evaluation score, corresponding to the output feature map, generated by the discriminating network is acquired, instructing a first loss unit to generate at least one first loss by referring to the evaluation score, and learning parameters of the generating network by backpropagating the first loss.
12. The learning device of Claim 11, wherein the processor instructs the discriminating network, capable of determining whether its own inputted feature map is one of the real feature maps or one of the virtual feature maps, to generate at least one probability of the output feature map being real or fake, to thereby generate the evaluation score.
13. The learning device of Claim 12, wherein the discriminating network, if the output feature map, at least one real training feature map generated by using some of the real images, and their corresponding GTs are acquired, instructs a second loss unit, corresponding to the discriminating network, to generate at least one second loss by referring to (i) evaluation scores for training on the output feature map and the real training feature map generated by the discriminating network, and (ii) the GTs, and learn parameters thereof by backpropagating the second loss, to thereby determine a probability of some feature map to be inputted being real or fake.
14. The learning device of Claim 11, wherein the processor instructs an object detection network to generate each of one or more class scores corresponding to each of one or more objects included in the input image by referring to the output feature map.
15. The learning device of Claim 14, wherein the processor instructs a third loss unit to generate at least one third loss by referring to the class scores and their corresponding GTs, and learn parameters of the generating network and the object detection network by backpropagating the third loss.
</claims>
</document>
