<document>

<filing_date>
2014-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROTSTEIN, MICHAEL
PERSSON, ROLAND
MOORE, RICHARD J.
MORAN, CRISTIN E.
AXELSSON, PONTUS
MAHLI, DAVID M.
SIVALINGAM, RAVISHANKAR
SOMASUNDARAM, GURUPRASAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52810724
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NOTE RECOGNITION FOR OVERLAPPING PHYSICAL NOTES
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for creating and manipulating software notes representative of physical notes are described. A computing device includes a processor, an image collection module executable by the processor and configured to receive an input image of an environment having a plurality of overlapping physical notes, and an image processing engine executable by the processor and configured to process the input image with the computing device to identify the plurality of overlapping physical notes in the input image. The image processing engine determines a boundary of each note in the plurality of overlapping physical notes in the input image, and generates a plurality of digital notes corresponding to the determined boundary of each of the overlapping physical notes identified in the input image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for digitizing sticky-back paper notes, comprising: receiving, by a computing device, an input image of an environment having a plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes, wherein each of the plurality of sticky-back paper notes comprises a body having a background color and a border around the body having a border color different from the background color; processing the input image with the computing device to apply a color segmenting process to identify, based on the background color and the border color of each of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes, boundaries for each of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes in the input image; processing the identified borders of each of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes to extract content for each of the respective overlapping sticky-back paper notes, wherein the extracted content for a respective sticky-back paper note includes at least a portion of the body and portions of the border of the respective sticky-back paper note; generating, by the computing device, a plurality of digital notes, each of the digital notes corresponding to one of the identified overlapping sticky-back paper notes; associating, by the computing device, the extracted content for each respective sticky-back paper note of the identified overlapping sticky-back paper notes with a corresponding digital note of the plurality of digital notes that represents the respective sticky-back paper note; and automatically grouping the plurality of digital notes based upon one or more detected grouping indicators.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the grouping comprises separating the digital notes into groups based upon distances between the sticky-back paper notes.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the grouping comprises determining an indication of one or more groups based upon a loop physically drawn around the sticky-back paper notes.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the grouping comprises determining an indication of one or more groups based upon one or more lines physically drawn connecting the sticky-back paper notes.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, further comprising: displaying, by the computing device, the input image on a first portion of a graphical user interface; and displaying, by the computing device, the digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface according to the grouping.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the color segmenting process is applied in response to determining that the background colors of the plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes are different.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting one or more fiducial markers in the input image, wherein extracting the content from at least one of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes comprises extracting, by the computing device and based on the fiducial markers, the content from the sticky-back paper note in the plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes.
8. A computing device comprising: one or more processors; an image collection module executable by the one or more processors to receive an input image of an environment having a plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes, wherein each of the plurality of sticky-back paper notes comprises a body having a background color and a border around the body having a border color different from the background color; and an image processing engine executable by the one or more processors to: process the input image to apply a color segmenting process to identify, based on the background colors and the border colors of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes, boundaries for each of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes in the input image; process the identified borders of each of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes to extract content for each of the respective overlapping sticky-back paper notes, wherein the extracted content for a respective sticky-back paper note includes portions of the border of the respective sticky-back paper note; generate a plurality of digital notes, each of the digital notes corresponding to one of the identified overlapping sticky-back paper notes; associate the extracted content for each respective sticky-back paper note of the identified overlapping sticky-back paper notes with a corresponding digital note of the plurality of digital notes that represents the respective sticky-back paper note; and automatically group the plurality of digital notes based upon one or more detected grouping indicators.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to separate the digital notes into groups based upon distances between the sticky-back paper notes.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to determine an indication of one or more groups based upon a loop physically drawn around the sticky-back paper notes.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to determine an indication of one or more groups based upon one or more lines physically drawn connecting the sticky-back paper notes.
12. The device of any of claims 8-11, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to: display the input image on a first portion of a graphical user interface; and display the digital notes on a second portion of the graphical user interface according to the grouping.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to:
apply the color segmentation process in response to determining that the background colors of the plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes are different.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the image collection module includes an image capture device configured to capture the input image.
15. The device of claim 8, wherein the image processing engine is further executable to: detect one or more fiducial markers in the input image; wherein to extract the content from at least one of the overlapping sticky-back paper notes, the image processing engine is further executable to determine, based on the fiducial markers, the content from the plurality of overlapping sticky-back paper notes.
</claims>
</document>
