<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/09,G01C21/34,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06N3/00,G06T7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOBILEYE VISION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, BARAK
STEIN, GIDEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59315715
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLING HOST VEHICLE BASED ON DETECTED PARKED VEHICLE CHARACTERISTICS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for navigating an autonomous vehicle. One embodiment relates to systems and methods for navigating a host vehicle based on detecting a door opening event. Another embodiment relates to systems and methods for navigating a host vehicle based on movement of a target vehicle toward a lane being traveled by the host vehicle. A third embodiment relates to systems and methods for detecting whether a road on which a host vehicle travels is a one-way road. A fourth embodiment relates to systems and methods for determining a predicted state of a parked vehicle in an environment of a host vehicle. A fifth embodiment relates to systems and methods for navigating a host vehicle based on a spacing between two stationary vehicles.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting whether a road on which a host vehicle travels is a one-way road, the system comprising:
at least one processing device programmed to: receive, from an image capture device, at least one image associated with an environment of the host vehicle; identify, based on analysis of the at least one image, a first plurality of vehicles on a first side of the road on which the host vehicle travels; identify, based on analysis of the at least one image, a second plurality of vehicles on a second side of the road on which the host vehicle travels, the second side being opposite to the first side; determine a first facing direction associated with the first plurality of vehicles; determine a second facing direction associated with the second plurality of vehicles; and use the first facing direction and the second facing direction to determine that the host vehicle is on a one-way road and, in response to the determination, cause at least one navigational change of the host vehicle when the first facing direction and the second facing direction are both opposite to a heading direction of the host vehicle.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processing device is further programmed to identify, based on analysis of the at least one image, a side of at least one of the first plurality of vehicles or at least one of the second plurality of vehicles.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the identified side is a right side; or the identified side is a left side; or wherein the at least one processing device is further programmed to identify the side based on at least two features associated with at least one of the first plurality of vehicles or at least one of the second plurality of vehicles.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one navigational change includes applying brakes of the host vehicle.
5. A method for detecting whether a road on which a host vehicle travels is a one-way road, the method comprising: receiving, from an image capture device, at least one image associated with an environment of the host vehicle; identifying, based on analysis of the at least one image, a first plurality of vehicles on a first side of the road on which the host vehicle travels; identifying, based on analysis of the at least one image, a second plurality of vehicles on a second side of the road on which the host vehicle travels, the second side being opposite to the first side; determining a first facing direction associated with the first plurality of vehicles; determining a second facing direction associated with the second plurality of vehicles; and using the first facing direction and the second facing direction to determine that the host vehicle is on a one-way road and, in response to the determination, causing at least one navigational change of the host vehicle when the first facing direction and the second facing direction are both opposite to a heading direction of the host vehicle.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising:
identify, based on analysis of at least one of the plurality of image images, a side of at least one of the first plurality of vehicles or at least one of the second plurality of vehicles.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the identified side is a right side; or the identified side is a left side; or the method further comprising identifying the side based on at least two features associated with at least one of the first plurality of vehicles or at least one of the second plurality of vehicles.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the at least one navigational change includes applying brakes of the host vehicle.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, which, when executed by at least one processing device, perform a method comprising: receiving, from an image capture device, at least one image associated with an environment of a host vehicle; identifying, based on analysis of the at least one image, a first plurality of vehicles on a first side of a road on which the host vehicle travels; identifying, based on analysis of the at least one image, a second plurality of vehicles on a second side of the road on which the host vehicle travels, the second side being opposite to the first side; determining a first facing direction associated with the first plurality of vehicles; determining a second facing direction associated with the second plurality of vehicles; and using the first facing direction and the second facing direction to determine that the host vehicle is on a one-way road and, in response to the determination, causing at least one navigational change of the host vehicle when the first facing direction and the second facing direction are both opposite to a heading direction of the host vehicle.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 9, further storing instructions to:
identify, based on analysis of at least one of the plurality of image images, a side of at least one of the first plurality of vehicles or at least one of the second plurality of vehicles.
11. A system for navigating a host vehicle, the system comprising:
at least one processing device programmed to: receive a navigation instruction to navigate the host vehicle from a first road on which the host vehicle is traveling to a second road; receive, from an image capture device, at least one image associated with an environment of the second road; identify, based on analysis of the at least one image, a first plurality of vehicles on a first side of the second road; identify, based on analysis of the at least one image, a second plurality of vehicles on a second side of the second road, the second side being opposite to the first side; determine a first facing direction associated with the first plurality of vehicles; determine a second facing direction associated with the second plurality of vehicles; use the first facing direction and the second facing direction to determine that the second road a one-way road and, in response to the determination, determine that the first facing direction and the second facing direction are both opposite to a heading direction the host vehicle would travel if the host vehicle were to turn onto the second road; and suspend the navigation instruction in response to the determination that the first facing direction and the second facing direction are both opposite to the heading direction the host vehicle would travel if the host vehicle were to navigate onto the second road.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processing device is further programmed to receive an override instruction to reinstate the suspended navigation instruction.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein: the override instruction is initiated based on a manual confirmation received from a person inside the host vehicle; or the override instruction is initiated based on accessing map data; or the override instruction is initiated based on crowdsourced data related to a travel direction of the second road.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the first plurality of vehicles and the second plurality of vehicles are parked.
</claims>
</document>
