<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/08,H04W48/02,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SETIYA, RISHI
SHAH, VIRAL PRAKASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65729054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR DETECTING ACTIVE RADIOFREQUENCY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SIGNAL IN A REGION
</title>

<abstract>
The use of mobile telephones have come into widespread use in such a way that day to day life has become very much dependent on them. This results in unintentional or intentional use of mobile phones in the prohibited areas such as examination centers. A method for detecting active radiofrequency wireless communication signal in a region has been provided. The method involves two stages, calibration stage and mobile phone detection stage. In the calibration stage, the frequency on which the mobile towers in that region are operating are identified. The identified frequency is then used to detect the active wireless RF communication using a plurality of software defined radios (SDR) and the existing client systems present in the region. The method further configured to determine the exact location of the mobile phone from the RF communication signal is generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (200) for detecting active radiofrequency (RF) wireless communication in a region, the method comprising a processor implemented steps of: identifying the presence of one or more mobile bands present in the region, wherein each of the one or more mobile bands are present in a plurality of mobile signals coming out of a mobile tower in the region (202); dividing downlink frequencies of the one or more mobile bands among a plurality of slots and further distribute in a plurality of client systems in time division domain, wherein the distribution is performed dynamically depending upon availability of the plurality of client systems by a central server (204); detecting active channels out of the one or more mobile bands based on the broadcast control channel information (BCCH) transmitted by the mobile tower in the region (206); sending the information of detected active channels back at the central server (208); calculating the respective uplink channel frequency for detected active channel from the downlink frequencies (210); redistributing the detected active channels among the plurality of client systems dynamically in time division domain (212); tuning a plurality of software defined radios (SDRs) associated with plurality of client systems to the uplink channel frequencies (214); capturing a raw signal generated from the SDRs in the form of binary data (216); performing a cyclic-autocorrelation on the raw signal (218); filtering cyclic-autocorrelated signal to remove a plurality of noises (220); enhancing and extracting a plurality of features in the cyclic-autocorrelated signal (222); providing the extracted plurality of features to a support vector machine classifier to classify the presence of the active RF signal (224); extracting a target device signal information if the active RF signal is detected (226); and sending the target device signal information to the server (228).
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target device signal information and signal source position is calculated from the active RF signal using a triangulation method.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of determining bandwidth, uplink frequencies and operator information of the plurality of bands.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of features include peak position, standard deviation, slope calculation and ratio calculation.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the peak position is derived from the cyclic auto correlated signal and the standard deviation, the slope calculation and the ratio calculation are derived from normal distribution of the cyclic auto correlated signal.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of slots are from one or more of a 2G signal, a 3G signal, a 4G signal or a 5G signal.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the blind signal detection method is performed using a cyclic autocorrelation.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein, the plurality of client systems comprise a Launcher application (110), the Launcher application (110) is started before the start of an examination in the region.
9. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause: identifying the presence of one or more mobile bands present in the region, wherein each of the one or more mobile bands are present in a plurality of mobile signals coming out of a mobile tower in the region (202); dividing downlink frequencies of the one or more mobile bands among a plurality of slots and further distribute in a plurality of client systems in time division domain, wherein the distribution is performed dynamically depending upon availability of the plurality of client systems by a central server (204); detecting active channels out of the one or more mobile bands based on the broadcast control channel information (BCCH) transmitted by the mobile tower in the region (206); sending the information of detected active channels back at the central server (208); calculating the respective uplink channel frequency for detected active channel from the downlink frequencies (210); redistributing the detected active channels among the plurality of client systems dynamically in time division domain (212); tuning a plurality of software defined radios (SDRs) associated with plurality of client systems to the uplink channel frequencies (214); capturing a raw signal generated from the SDRs in the form of binary data (216); performing a cyclic-autocorrelation on the raw signal (218); filtering cyclic-autocorrelated signal to remove a plurality of noises (220); enhancing and extracting a plurality of features in the cyclic-autocorrelated signal (222); providing the extracted plurality of features to a support vector machine classifier to classify the presence of the active RF signal (224); extracting a target device signal information if the active RF signal is detected (226); and sending the target device signal information to the server (228).
10. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 9, wherein the target device signal information and signal source position is calculated from the active RF signal using a triangulation method.
11. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 9, further comprising the step of determining bandwidth, uplink frequencies and operator information of the plurality of bands.
12. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 9, wherein the plurality of features include peak position, standard deviation, slope calculation and ratio calculation.
13. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 12, wherein the peak position is derived from the cyclic auto correlated signal and the standard deviation, the slope calculation and the ratio calculation are derived from normal distribution of the cyclic auto correlated signal.
14. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 9, wherein the plurality of slots are from one or more of a 2G signal, a 3G signal, a 4G signal or a 5G signal.
15. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 9, wherein the blind signal detection method is performed using a cyclic autocorrelation.
</claims>
</document>
