<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/03
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRAUN, SANDRO
CHEN, XIAO
MAILHE, BORIS
NADAR, MARIAPPAN S.
ODRY, BENJAMIN L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67587460
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING QUALITY CLASSIFICATION BASED ON DEEP MACHINE-LEARNING TO ACCOUNT FOR LESS TRAINING DATA
</title>

<abstract>
For classifying magnetic resonance image quality or training to classify magnetic resonance image quality, deep learning is used to learn features distinguishing between corrupt images base on simulation and measured similarity. The deep learning uses synthetic data without quality annotation, allowing a large set of training data. The deep-learned features are then used as input features for training a classifier using training data annotated with ground truth quality. A smaller training data set may be needed to train the classifier due to the use of features learned without the quality annotation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for classifying quality of an image from a magnetic resonance system, the method comprising: generating, by the magnetic resonance system, an image of a patient; determining feature values as output in response to application of the image to a machine-learned regressor network, the machine-learned regressor network having been trained to predict an image metric based on simulation of corrupted images; classifying the quality of the image in response to application of the feature values to a machine-learned classifier; and rescanning the patient by the magnetic resonance system when the quality is below a threshold.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein generating the image comprises generating the image with motion artifact due to motion of the patient, wherein the simulation used to train the machine-learned regressor network simulated motion, wherein classifying comprises classifying the quality based on effect of the motion of the patient, and wherein rescanning comprises rescanning when the effect of the motion of the patient results in the quality being below the threshold.
3. The method according to claims 1 or 2, wherein determining comprises determining by the machine-learned regressor network comprising a deep learned network.
4. The method according to claim 3, in particular wherein determining by the deep learned network comprises determining by learned features without using prediction of the image metrics.
5. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein determining comprises determining by the machine-learned regressor network having been trained with the simulation of corrupted images, the simulation of corrupted images comprising the corrupted images output by artifact simulation,
or
wherein determining comprises determining by the machine-learned regressor network having been trained without annotation of quality,
or
wherein determining comprises determining by the machine-learned regressor network having been trained with the image metrics comprising similarity of the corrupted images to uncorrupted images.
6. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein classifying comprises classifying by the machine-learned classifier comprising a random forest or support vector machine,
or
wherein classifying comprises classifying with the machine-learned classifier having been trained with ground truth quality for the training data,
or
wherein classifying comprises classifying with the machine-learned classifier having been trained to classify the quality based on the features values from the machine-learned regressor where the feature values are based on the prediction of the image metrics.
7. The method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 5, wherein classifying comprises classifying in response to the application of the feature values and application of other features,
or
wherein classifying comprises classifying the quality in a binary classification.
8. The method according to any of the preceding claims, wherein generating the image comprises generating with the patient on a table, and wherein rescanning comprises rescanning before the patient leaves the table.
9. A method for training of classification of image quality, the method comprising: simulating artifacts in input images, the simulating resulting in artifact images from the input images; deep learning, by a machine, to predict a degree of similarity of the artifact images to the respective input images; machine training, by the machine, a classifier from training data with ground truth annotations of the image quality and input features learned from the deep learning; and storing the machine-trained classifier and a machine-learned network from the deep learning.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein simulating comprises generating, for each of the input images, a plurality of the artifact images as corrupted images with different corruption characteristics.
11. The method according to claims 9 or 10, wherein deep learning comprises learning through regression the machine-learned network as first layers generating the input features for the prediction of the degree of similarity and a further network having a second layer for the prediction, and wherein machine training comprises machine training using the machine-learned network as the first layers without the further network.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein deep learning comprises deep learning without the ground truth annotations of the image quality.
13. The method according to claims 11 or 12, wherein machine training comprises machine training with the input features learned from the deep learning as an initial model and other input features.
14. A system for magnetic resonance image quality assessment, the system comprising: a magnetic resonance scanner configured to generate data representing a patient; an image processor configured to generate values of features of the data with a machine-learned network of deep learned features learned without quality annotation, to determine the image quality with a machine-learned classifier based on the values; and a display configured to display an indication of the image quality.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the machine-learned network was trained to predict similarity based on synthetic data and wherein the machine-learned classifier was trained to determine the image quality based on annotation of image quality as a ground truth.
</claims>
</document>
