<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N23/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUCTECH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GU, JIANPING
LI, QIANG
LIU, TAO
LIU, YAOHONG
ZHAO, ZIRAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65722436
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INSPECTION METHOD AND INSPECTION DEVICE AND COMPUTER-READABLE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
An inspection method and inspection device and a computer readable medium are disclosed. The method includes steps of: scanning an inspected object using X-rays to obtain an image of the inspected object; processing the image using a first neural network to obtain a semantic description of the inspected object; reading text information of a manifest of the inspected object; processing the text information of the manifest of the inspected object using a second neural network to obtain a semantic feature of the inspected object; and determining whether the inspected object is allowed to pass based on the semantic description and the semantic feature. With the solution according to the above embodiments, a speed of the inspection may be greatly improved while accuracy of the inspection is ensured, so that efficiency of the security inspection is greatly improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An inspection method, comprising steps of: scanning an inspected object using X-rays to obtain an image of the inspected object; processing the image using a first neural network to obtain a semantic description of the inspected object; reading text information of a manifest of the inspected object; processing the text information of the manifest of the inspected object using a second neural network to obtain a semantic feature of the inspected object; and determining whether the inspected object is allowed to pass based on the semantic description and the semantic feature.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first neural network is a convolutional neural network or a candidate region-based convolutional neural network or a fast candidate region-based convolutional neural network, and the second neural network is a recurrent neural network or a bidirectional recurrent neural network.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first neural network is trained using a pre-established set of image-semantics pairs.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein before processing the image using the first neural network, the method further comprises steps of: binarizing the image of the inspected object; calculating an average value of the binarized image; and subtracting the average value from each pixel value of the binarized image.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the steps of determining whether the inspected object is allowed to pass based on the semantic description and the semantic feature comprises: calculating a distance between a first vector representing the semantic description and a second vector representing the semantic feature; and allowing the inspected object to pass if the calculated distance is less than a threshold.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein a correspondence relationship is established between a plurality of region features contained in sample images and a plurality of words included in manifest information of the sample images during training of the first neural network.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein a dot product between a feature vector representing the region features and a semantic vector representing the words is taken as similarities between the region features and the words, and a weighted sum of the similarities between the plurality of region features of the sample images and the plurality of words included in the manifest information of the sample images is taken as a similarity between the sample images and the manifest information of the sample images.
8. An inspection device, comprising: a scanning apparatus configured to scan an inspected object using X-rays to obtain a scanned image; an input apparatus configured to input information of a manifest of the inspected object; and a processor configured to: process the image using a first neural network to obtain a semantic description of the inspected object; process text information of the manifest of the inspected object using a second neural network to obtain a semantic feature of the inspected object; and determine whether the inspected object is allowed to pass based on the semantic description and the semantic feature.
9. The inspection device according to claim 8, wherein the first neural network is a convolutional neural network or a candidate region-based convolutional neural network or a fast candidate region-based convolutional neural network, and the second neural network is a recurrent neural network or a bidirectional recurrent neural network.
10. The inspection device according to claim 8, wherein the first neural network is trained with a pre-established set of image-semantics pairs.
11. The inspection device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to, before processing the image using the first neural network,
binarize the image of the inspected object;
calculate an average value of the binarized image; and
subtract the average value from each pixel value of the binarized image.
12. The inspection device according to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: calculate a distance between a first vector representing the semantic description and a second vector representing the semantic feature; and allow the inspected object to pass if the calculated distance is less than a threshold.
13. The inspection device according to claim 8, wherein a correspondence relationship is established between a plurality of region features contained in sample images and a plurality of words included in manifest information of the sample images during the training of the first neural network.
14. The inspection device according to claim 13, wherein a dot product between a feature vector representing the region features and a semantic vector representing the words is taken as similarities between the region features and the words, and a weighted sum of the similarities between the plurality of region features of the sample images and the plurality of words included in the manifest information of the sample images is taken as a similarity between the sample images and the manifest information of the sample images.
15. A computer readable medium having stored therein a computer program which, when executed by a processor, implements the following steps: processing an X-ray image of an inspected object using a first neural network to obtain a semantic description of the inspected object; processing text information of a manifest of the inspected object using a second neural network to obtain a semantic feature of the inspected object; and determining whether the inspected object is allowed to pass based on the semantic description and the semantic feature.
</claims>
</document>
