<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XIAOMI CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FENG, CHAOYU
LEI, LEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67810384
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE CAPTURING METHOD AND APPARATUS, AND TERMINAL
</title>

<abstract>
An image capturing method includes: displaying an image capturing preview interface of an image capturing program, the image capturing preview interface displaying a preview image; identifying an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model; and activating a moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when the image capturing scene is a moon image capturing scene, the moon image capturing mode being an image capturing mode configured to capture image of the moon in a night sky.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image capturing method, comprising: displaying an image capturing preview interface of an image capturing program, the image capturing preview interface displaying a preview image; identifying an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model; and activating a moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when the image capturing scene is a moon image capturing scene, the moon image capturing mode being an image capturing mode configured to capture an image of the moon in a night sky.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the activating a moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when the image capturing scene is a moon image capturing scene comprises:
activating the moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when a level of the digital zoom is greater than a preset level and the image capturing scene belongs to the moon image capturing scene.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the identifying an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model comprises: acquiring meta data of a camera; detecting whether the preview image is an image displayed on a liquid crystal display according to the meta data; and identifying the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when the preview image is not an image displayed on the liquid crystal display.
4. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the identifying an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model comprises: acquiring posture data of a terminal; detecting whether an image capturing posture of the terminal is an upward image capturing posture according to the posture data; and identifying the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when the posture data indicates the upward image capturing posture.
5. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein identifying an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model comprises: performing image semantic identification on a focus area of the preview image; and identifying the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when the image semantic identification indicates that the focus area is of a point light source type.
6. The method according to any of claims 1-5, wherein the method is applied to a terminal having both a wide-angle camera and a telephoto camera, and after activating the moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program, the method further comprises:
switching a camera used for image capturing from the wide-angle camera to the telephoto camera.
7. The method according to any of claims 1-6, wherein the machine learning model is obtained based on training sample images in a training set with an error back propagation algorithm, and the training set comprises a positive sample image set and a negative sample image set;
the positive sample image set comprises moon images and artificial moon images captured by a test terminal;
the negative sample image set comprises non-moon images;
the artificial moon image is an image obtained by synthesizing a night sky image and a moon region image, and the moon region image is obtained from performing image matting on the moon image shot by the test terminal; and
the non-moon images comprise streetlight images.
8. An image capturing device, comprising: a display module configured to display an image capturing preview interface of an image capturing program, the image capturing preview interface displaying a preview image; a processing module configured to identify an image capturing scene of the preview image by calling a machine learning model; and an image capturing module configured to activate a moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when the image capturing scene belongs to a moon image capturing scene, the moon image capturing mode being an image capturing mode configured to capture an image of the moon in the sky.
9. The device according to claim 8, wherein
the image capturing module is configured to activate the moon image capturing mode in the image capturing program when a level of a digital zoom is greater than a preset level and the image capturing scene belongs to the moon image capturing scene.
10. The device according to claim 8 or 9, wherein
the processing module is configured to acquire meta data of a camera; detect whether the preview image is an image displayed on a liquid crystal display according to the meta data; and identify the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when the preview image is not an image displayed on the liquid crystal display.
11. The device according to claim 8 or 9, wherein
the processing module is configured to acquire posture data of a terminal; detect whether an image capturing posture of the terminal is an upward image capturing posture according to the posture data; and identify the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when the posture data indicates the upward image capturing posture.
12. The device according to claim 8 or 9, wherein
the processing module is configured to perform image semantic identification on a focus area of the preview image; and identify the image capturing scene of the preview image by calling the machine learning model when a result of the image semantic identification is that the focus area is of a point light source type.
13. The device according to any of claims 8-12, wherein the device is applied to a terminal having both a wide-angle camera and a telephoto camera, and
the processing module is configured to switch a camera used for image capturing from the wide-angle camera to the telephoto camera.
14. The device according to any of claims 8-13, wherein the machine learning model is obtained based on training sample images in a training set with an error back propagation algorithm, and the training set comprises a positive sample image set and a negative sample image set;
the positive sample image set comprises moon images and artificial moon images shot by the test terminal;
the negative sample image set comprises non-moon images;
the artificial moon image is an image obtained by synthesizing a night sky image and a moon region image, and the moon region image is obtained from performing image matting on the moon image shot by the test terminal; and
the non-moon images comprise streetlight images.
15. A computer readable storage medium, wherein the readable storage medium is configured to store at least one instruction, at least one program, a code set or an instruction set, and the at least one instruction, the at least one segment of the program, the code set or the instruction set is configured to be loaded and executed by a processor to implement the image capturing method according to any of claims 1-7.
</claims>
</document>
