<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOTDATA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASAHARA MASATO
CHEN TING
FUJIMAKI RYOHEI
KUSUMURA YUKITAKA
MURAOKA YUSUKE
NARITA KAZUYO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65994215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FEATURE VALUE GENERATION DEVICE, FEATURE VALUE GENERATION METHOD, AND FEATURE VALUE GENERATION PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
A table acquiring means 381 acquires a first table including prediction objects and first attributes, and a second table including second attributes. A receiving means 382 receives a similarity function and condition for similarity used to calculate the similarity between the first attribute and the second attribute. A feature generating means 383 generates feature candidates able to affect a prediction object using a combination condition for combining a record in the first table including the value of a first attribute satisfying the condition with a record in the second table including the value of a second attribute satisfying the similarity calculated with the value of the first attribute and the value of the second attribute using the similarity function, and using a reduction method for a plurality of records in the second table and a reduction condition represented by the column to be aggregated. A feature selecting means 384 selects an optimum feature for the prediction from the feature candidates.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A feature generating device comprising: a table acquiring means for acquiring a first table including a prediction target and a first attribute, and a second table including a second attribute; a receiving means for receiving a similarity function and a similarity condition used to calculate the degree of similarity between the first attribute and the second attribute; a feature generating means for generating feature candidates from the first table and the second table able to affect the prediction target using a combination condition for combining a record in the first table including a value for the first attribute and a record in the second table including a value for the second attribute whose degree of similarity calculated from the value of the first attribute and the value of the second attribute using the similarity function satisfies the condition, a reduction method for the plurality of records in the second table, and a reduction condition represented by a column to be reduced; and a feature selecting means for selecting the optimum feature for prediction from among the feature candidates.
2. A feature generating device according to claim 1, wherein the feature generating means generates a number of features combining a combination condition and a reduction condition using a plurality of combination conditions and a plurality of reduction conditions.
3. A feature generating device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first attribute and the second attribute are geographic attributes, and the similarity function is defined as a function calculating a higher degree of similarity for closer distances.
4. A feature generating device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first attribute and the second attribute are temporal attributes, and the similarity function is defined as a function calculating a higher degree of similarity for smaller time differences.
5. A feature generating device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first attribute and the second attribute are string attributes, and the similarity function is defined as a function calculating a higher degree of similarity for a higher match between text in the strings.
6. A feature generating device according to claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the first attribute and the second attribute are structural attributes, and the similarity function is defined as a function calculating a higher degree of similarity for closer distances to a shared node.
7. A feature generating device according to any one of claim 1 to claim 6, further comprising a function generating means for generating a feature descriptor using a combination condition, a reduction condition, and an extraction condition for extracting a record satisfying the condition from the second table.
8. A feature generating method comprising: acquiring a first table including a prediction target and a first attribute, and a second table including a second attribute; receiving a similarity function and a similarity condition used to calculate the degree of similarity between the first attribute and the second attribute; generating feature candidates from the first table and the second table able to affect the prediction target using a combination condition for combining a record in the first table including a value for the first attribute and a record in the second table including a value for the second attribute whose degree of similarity calculated from the value of the first attribute and the value of the second attribute using the similarity function satisfies the condition, a reduction method for the plurality of records in the second table, and a reduction condition represented by a column to be reduced; and selecting the optimum feature for prediction from among the feature candidates.
9. A feature generating method according to claim 8, wherein a number of features combining a combination condition and a reduction condition are generated using a plurality of combination conditions and a plurality of reduction conditions.
10. A feature generating program causing a computer to execute: a table acquiring process for acquiring a first table including a prediction target and a first attribute, and a second table including a second attribute; a receiving process for receiving a similarity function and a similarity condition used to calculate the degree of similarity between the first attribute and the second attribute; a feature generating process for generating feature candidates from the first table and the second table able to affect the prediction target using a combination condition for combining a record in the first table including a value for the first attribute and a record in the second table including a value for the second attribute whose degree of similarity calculated from the value of the first attribute and the value of the second attribute using the similarity function satisfies the condition, a reduction method for the plurality of records in the second table, and a reduction condition represented by a column to be reduced; and a feature selecting process for selecting the optimum feature for prediction from among the feature candidates.
11. A feature generating program according to claim 10, wherein the computer is caused in the feature generating process to generate a number of features combining a combination condition and a reduction condition using a plurality of combination conditions and a plurality of reduction conditions.
</claims>
</document>
