<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/683
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYOSANG
KIM, MINSOO
CHOI, YOONHEE
KIM, YOUNGUK
CHOI, HYUNSOO
CHOI, JIWOONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68653326
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DISPLAY APPARATUS AND CONTROL METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
A display apparatus is provided. The display apparatus according to an embodiment includes a display, a memory configured to store UI pattern information, a communication interface comprising communication circuitry, and a processor configured to control the display apparatus to obtain identification information indicating a type of changed multimedia content from the memory based on UI pattern information obtained from the changed multimedia content based on an event that changes a multimedia content output through the display occurring, control the communication interface to: transmit the identification information and fingerprint obtained from the changed multimedia content to a server, and receive content information corresponding to the fingerprint obtained based on the identification information from the server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display apparatus, comprising: a display; a memory configured to store UI pattern information; a communication interface comprising communication circuitry; and a processor configured to control the display apparatus to: obtain identification information indicating a type of changed multimedia content from the memory based on UI pattern information obtained from the changed multimedia content based on an event that changes a multimedia content output through the display occurring, control the communication interface to transmit the identification information and a fingerprint obtained from the changed multimedia content to a server, and receive content information corresponding to the fingerprint obtained based on the identification information from the server through the communication interface.
2. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control the communication interface to: transmit the fingerprint to at least one server corresponding to the identification information among a plurality of servers, and receive the content information from the at least one server.
3. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to: control the communication interface to transmit the fingerprint to a plurality of servers based on the identification information corresponding to the obtained UI pattern information not being stored in the memory, receive the content information and the identification information from one of the plurality of servers through the communication interface, and map the received identification information to the UI pattern information to store the identification information in the memory.
4. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to: identify that an event that changes the multimedia content occurs based on an audio output being changed to a mute state while the multimedia content is being output.
5. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to obtain a plurality of UI patterns from the changed multimedia content at predetermined time intervals based on the event occurring, and obtain the UI pattern information from the plurality of UI patterns.
6. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to: identify a plurality of UI patterns from each of a plurality of multimedia contents output through the display at predetermined time intervals, perform grouping of the plurality of UI patterns based on a similarity of the plurality of UI patterns, and store the grouped UI pattern in the memory as the UI pattern information.
7. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to: obtain the UI pattern information from the changed multimedia content based on a UI pattern identification model stored in the memory, wherein the UI pattern identification model is obtained by training a plurality of sample frames and a plurality of sample UI patterns included in the plurality of sample frames through an artificial intelligence algorithm.
8. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to identify whether the obtained UI pattern information corresponds to the stored UI pattern information based on the UI pattern identification model.
9. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to control the display apparatus to change a resolution of a frame included in the multimedia content to a predetermined resolution, and obtain the UI pattern information from a frame changed to the predetermined resolution.
10. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 9, wherein the identification information includes at least one of a channel that provides the multimedia content, a content provider that provides the multimedia content, or a connection method of an electronic apparatus that provides the multimedia content and the display apparatus.
11. A method for controlling a display apparatus, the method comprising: obtaining identification information indicating a type of changed multimedia content based on UI pattern information obtained from the changed multimedia content based on an event that changes a multimedia content output through a display of the display apparatus; transmitting the identification information and a fingerprint obtained from the changed multimedia content to a server; and receiving content information corresponding to the fingerprint obtained based on the identification information from the server.
12. The method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the transmitting comprises transmitting the fingerprint to at least one server corresponding to the identification information among a plurality of servers, and
wherein the receiving comprises receiving the content information from the at least one server.
13. The method as claimed in claim 11 or claim 12, wherein the transmitting comprises, transmitting the fingerprint to a plurality of servers based on the identification information corresponding to the obtained UI pattern information not being obtained,
wherein the receiving comprises receiving the content information and the identification information from one of the plurality of servers, and
wherein the controlling comprises mapping the received identification information to the UI pattern information and storing the identification information.
14. The method as claimed in claim 11 to claim 13, wherein the obtaining comprises identifying that an event that changes the multimedia content occurs based on an audio output being changed to a mute state while the multimedia content is being output.
15. The method as claimed in claim 11 to claim 14, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining a plurality of UI patterns from the changed multimedia content at predetermined time intervals based on the event occurring, and obtaining the UI pattern information from the plurality of UI patterns.
</claims>
</document>
