<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
FOWE, JAMES
PELLOLIO, FILIPPO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67659399
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, APPARATUS AND SYSTEM FOR USING DRONES FOR ROAD AND TRAFFIC MONITORING
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided for using aerial drones for road and traffic monitoring. The approach, for example, involves navigating an aerial drone to a physical marker located on a road link. The approach also involves initiating a capture of sensor data of the physical marker by a sensor of the aerial drone. The approach further involves adjusting a position, an altitude, or a combination thereof of the aerial drone to a reference position, a reference altitude, or a combination thereof over the physical marker based on the sensor data. The approach further involves initiating a capture of one or more images of the road link by the aerial drone at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof. By way of example, the captured images can be processed for road and traffic monitoring and/or other similar applications.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: navigating an aerial drone to a physical marker located on a road link; initiating a capture of sensor data of the physical marker by a sensor of the aerial drone; adjusting a position, an altitude, or a combination thereof of the aerial drone to a reference position, a reference altitude, or a combination thereof over the physical marker based on the sensor data; and initiating a capture of one or more images of the road link by the aerial drone at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data of the physical marker is an image of the physical marker.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the adjusting of the position of the aerial drone to the reference position over the physical marker comprises moving the aerial drone until the physical marker is positioned at a target location in a field of view of the image of the physical marker.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the adjusting of the altitude of the aerial drone to a reference altitude over the physical marker comprises moving the aerial drone until the physical marker appears at a target size in the image.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
processing the one or more images of the road link captured at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof to determine a traffic volume, a traffic speed, one or more dynamic events, or a combination thereof on the road link.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the traffic volume, the traffic speed, the one or more dynamic events, or a combination thereof are determined at a lane-specific level with respect to the road link.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the physical marker has a predetermined size, encodes one or more attributes of the physical marker, or a combination thereof, and wherein the one or more attributes include a marker identifier, the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the aerial drone is part of a swarm of drones docked throughout a geographic area that includes the road link.
9. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following: navigate an aerial drone to a physical marker located on a road link; initiate a capture of sensor data of the physical marker by a sensor of the aerial drone; adjust a position, an altitude, or a combination thereof of the aerial drone to a reference position, a reference altitude, or a combination thereof over the physical marker based on the sensor data; and initiate a capture of one or more images of the road link by the aerial drone at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the sensor data of the physical marker is an image of the physical marker, and wherein the adjusting of the altitude of the aerial drone to a reference altitude over the physical marker comprises moving the aerial drone until the physical marker appears at a target size in the image.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to:
process the one or more images of the road link captured at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof to determine a traffic volume, a traffic speed, one or more dynamic events, or a combination thereof on the road link based on a location of the physical marker in the one or more images.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the physical marker has a predetermined size, encodes one or more attributes of the physical marker, or a combination thereof, and wherein the one or more attributes include a marker identifier, the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof.
13. A system comprising: a swarm of aerial drones; a plurality of docking stations configured to dock the swarm of drones; and at least one physical marker located on at least one road link, wherein at least one aerial drone of the swarm of aerial drones is configured to: navigate to the at least one physical marker; initiate a capture of sensor data of the at least one physical marker by a sensor of the at least one aerial drone; adjust a position, an altitude, or a combination thereof of the at least one aerial drone to a reference position, a reference altitude, or a combination thereof over the at least one physical marker based on the sensor data; and initiate a capture of one or more images of the road link by the aerial drone at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof.
14. The system of claim 16, wherein the sensor data of the at least one physical marker is an image of the at least one physical marker, and wherein the adjusting of the position of the at least one aerial drone to the reference position over the at least one physical marker comprises moving the at least one aerial drone until the at least one physical marker is positioned at a target location in a field of view of the image of the at least one physical marker.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the system is caused to further perform:
processing the one or more images of the road link captured at the reference position, the reference altitude, or a combination thereof to determine a traffic volume, a traffic speed, one or more dynamic events, or a combination thereof on the road link based on a location of the at least one physical marker in the one or more images.
</claims>
</document>
