<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F3/01,H04L29/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
XIONG, WUZHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62208088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOGIN METHOD AND APPARATUS, AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations in this specification provide a login method and apparatus, and an electronic device. The method includes: displaying dynamic information for login to a user; receiving an EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by a monitoring device; matching the monitored EEG signal with an EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in a login authentication library, where EEG signals generated by users based on various dynamic information are stored in the login authentication library; and logging in when the monitored EEG signal successfully matches the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A login method, wherein the method comprises: displaying dynamic information for login to a user; receiving an EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by a monitoring device; matching the monitored EEG signal with an EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in a login authentication library, wherein EEG signals generated by users based on various dynamic information are stored in the login authentication library; and logging in when the monitored EEG signal successfully matches the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the dynamic information comprises any one or a combination of the following: changes in color; changes in blinks; and changes in energy.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the EEG signal in the login authentication library is obtained through machine learning training.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the receiving an EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by a monitoring device comprises: receiving the EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by the monitoring device and a unique identification signal of an EEG of the user, wherein the unique identification signal of the EEG is a user-specific unique EEG feature code; and the matching the monitored EEG signal with an EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in a login authentication library comprises: matching the unique identification signal of the monitored EEG in an identity authentication library, wherein unique identification signals of EEG that corresponds to different users are stored in the identity authentication library; obtaining an EEG signal that corresponds to a target user with regard to the dynamic information from the login authentication library when the target user is matched; and matching the monitored EEG signal with the EEG signal obtained from the login authentication library.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein before the displaying dynamic information for login to a user, the method further comprises: monitoring a current environment to determine whether the current environment affects normal generation of the EEG; and the displaying dynamic information for login to a user comprises:
displaying the dynamic information for login to the user when the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the monitoring a current environment to determine whether the current environment affects normal generation of the EEG comprises: monitoring noise decibels of the current environment; monitoring whether the noise decibels in the current environment reach a threshold; and determining that the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG when the noise decibels of the current environment do not reach the threshold.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the displaying dynamic information for login to a user comprises:
displaying the dynamic information for login to the user when a notification that the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG is received from the monitoring device.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: collecting biometric information of the user when the monitored EEG signal fails to match the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library; and logging in based on the biometric information of the user.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein before the collecting biometric information of the user, the method further comprises: counting the number of EEG matching failures; and the collecting biometric information of the user comprises:
collecting the biometric information of the user when the number of EEG matching failures reaches a threshold.
10. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the biometric information comprises:
at least one of a fingerprint, a palm print, an iris, an eye print, a face, or a sound wave.
11. A login apparatus, used in a login device, wherein the apparatus comprises: a displaying unit, configured to display dynamic information for login to a user; a receiving unit, configured to receive an EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by a monitoring device; a matching unit, configured to match the monitored EEG signal with an EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in a login authentication library, wherein EEG signals generated by users based on various dynamic information are stored in the login authentication library; and a login unit, configured to log in when the monitored EEG signal successfully matches the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the dynamic information comprises any one or a combination of the following: changes in color; changes in blinks; and changes in energy.
13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the EEG signal in the login authentication library is obtained through machine learning training.
14. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the receiving unit comprises: receiving the EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by the monitoring device and a unique identification signal of an EEG of the user, wherein the unique identification signal of the EEG is a user-specific unique EEG feature code; and the matching unit comprises: a first matching subunit, configured to match the unique identification signal of the monitored EEG in an identity authentication library, wherein unique identification signals of EEG that corresponds to different users are stored in the identity authentication library; an obtaining subunit, configured to obtain an EEG signal that corresponds to a target user with regard to the dynamic information from the login authentication library when the target user is matched; and a second matching subunit, configured to match the monitored EEG signal with the EEG signal obtained from the login authentication library.
15. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein before the displaying unit, the apparatus further comprises: an environment determining subunit, configured to monitor a current environment to determine whether the current environment affects normal generation of the EEG; and the displaying unit comprises:
displaying the dynamic information for login to the user when the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG.
16. The apparatus according to claim 15, wherein the environment determining subunit comprises: a noise monitoring subunit, configured to monitor noise decibels of the current environment; a noise determining subunit, configured to determine whether the noise decibels of the current environment reach a threshold; and an environment determining subunit, configured to determine that the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG when the noise decibels of the current environment do not reach the threshold.
17. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the displaying unit comprises:
displaying the dynamic information for login to the user when a notification that the current environment does not affect the normal generation of the EEG is received from the monitoring device.
18. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the apparatus further comprises: a collecting unit, configured to collect biometric information of the user when the monitored EEG signal fails to match the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library; and a biometric login unit, configured to log in based on the biometric information of the user.
19. The apparatus according to claim 18, wherein the collecting unit comprises: a counting subunit, configured to count the number of EEG matching failures when the monitored EEG signal fails to match the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library; and a collecting subunit, configured to collect the biometric information of the user when the number of EEG matching failures reaches a threshold.
20. The apparatus according to claim 18 or 19, wherein the biometric information comprises:
at least one of a fingerprint, a palm print, an iris, an eye print, a face, or a sound wave.
21. An electronic device, comprising: a processor; and a memory, configured to store instructions that can be executed by the processor; wherein the processor is configured to display dynamic information for login to a user; receive an EEG signal that is generated by the user based on the displayed dynamic information and that is monitored by a monitoring device; match the monitored EEG signal with an EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in a login authentication library, wherein EEG signals generated by users based on various dynamic information are stored in the login authentication library; and logging in when the monitored EEG signal successfully matches the EEG signal that corresponds to the dynamic information in the login authentication library.
</claims>
</document>
