<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/04,H04W72/08,H04W74/08,H04W92/10,H04W92/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JO, SOONKI
SONG, HUAYUE
YI, YUNJUNG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69413825
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPERATION METHOD OF NODE IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND APPARATUS USING SAME METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a method of operating a node in a wireless communication system and a device using the same. The method includes: connecting to a parent node through an initial access process; receiving, from the parent node, first allocation information related with communication with the parent node and second allocation information related with communication with a child node; and communicating with the parent node or the child node using a specific resource based on the first allocation information and the second allocation information. When the second allocation information indicates the specific resource as a hard resource that is always available for communication with the child node, the specific resource is used for communication with the child node regardless of the first allocation information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a node in a wireless communication system, the method comprising: connecting to a parent node through an initial access process; receiving, from the parent node, first allocation information related with communication with the parent node and second allocation information related with communication with a child node; and communicating with the parent node or the child node using a specific resource based on the first allocation information and the second allocation information, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as a hard resource that is always available for communication with the child node, the specific resource is used for communication with the child node regardless of the first allocation information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a transmission direction in the specific resource is determined based on both the first allocation information and the second allocation information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first allocation information informs the specific resource as one of three types of resources, and the second allocation information informs the specific resource as one of seven types of resources.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first allocation information informs the specific resource as one of a downlink type, an uplink type, and a flexible type.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the second allocation information informs the specific resource as one of a hard downlink type, a soft downlink type, a hard uplink type, a soft uplink type, a hard flexible type, a soft flexible type, and a not-available type.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the hard downlink type informs that the specific resource is a resource that is always available for the node to transmit a signal to the child node, and the soft downlink type informs that the specific resource is a resource for the node to be controlled by the parent node in transmitting a signal to the child node.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as the hard downlink type, although the first allocation information informs the specific resource as a downlink or uplink resource, the specific resource is usable to transmit a signal to the chide node.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the hard uplink type informs that the specific resource is a resource that is always available for the node to receive a signal from the child node, and the soft uplink type informs that the specific resource is a resource for the node to be controlled by the parent node in receiving a signal from the child node.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as the hard uplink type, although the first allocation information informs the specific resource as a downlink or uplink resource, the specific resource is usable to receive a signal from the chide node.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the hard flexible type informs that the specific resource is a resource that is always flexible in a relationship between the node and the child node, and the soft flexible type informs that the specific resource is a resource that is controlled by the parent node as to whether or not the specific resource is a flexible resource in the relationship between the node and the child node.
11. The method of claim 5, wherein the not-available type informs that the specific resource is a resource that is not available in a relationship between the node and the child node.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as a soft downlink, soft uplink, or soft flexible resource, if the specific resource is allocated to the node based on the first allocation information, the specific resource is considered as being used for communication with the parent node.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as a soft downlink, soft uplink, or soft flexible resource, if the specific resource is not allocated to the node based on the first allocation information, the specific resource is considered as being used for communication with the child node.
14. A node, the node comprising: a transceiver transmitting and receiving a wireless signal; and a processor coupled to the transceiver, wherein the processor connects to a parent node through an initial access process, receives, from the parent node, first allocation information related with communication with the parent node and second allocation information related with communication with a child node, and communicates with the parent node or the child node using a specific resource based on the first allocation information and the second allocation information, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as a hard resource that is always available for communication with the child node, the specific resource is used for communication with the child node regardless of the first allocation information.
15. A processor, the processor controlling a wireless device to: connect to a parent node through an initial access process; receive, from the parent node, first allocation information related with communication with the parent node and second allocation information related with communication with a child node; and communicate with the parent node or the child node using a specific resource based on the first allocation information and the second allocation information, wherein based on the second allocation information informing the specific resource as a hard resource that is always available for communication with the child node, the specific resource is used for communication with the child node regardless of the first allocation information.
</claims>
</document>
