<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12N15/10,C12N15/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARIBOU BIOSCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
VAN OVERBEEK, MEGAN
CAPURSO, DANIEL
MAY, ANDREW P.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58314500
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS FOR MODULATING DNA REPAIR OUTCOMES
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for gene editing and predicting non-random editing events are described. The methods use Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats (CRISPR) systems to characterize and manipulate DNA repair outcomes at Cas-initiated double-strand breaks (DSBs) to anticipate functional outcomes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of designing a guide polynucleotide for predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA in the cell to be modified; and designing a guide polynucleotide complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; wherein the DNA is genomic DNA.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
determining a frequency of which the inserted nucleotide is A if position 17 of the protospacer is A, or a frequency of which the inserted nucleotide is T if position 17 of the protospacer is T.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the target region comprises a gene encoding a gene product.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the guide comprises a single-guide RNA.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the Cas9 protein comprises a Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 protein or ortholog thereof.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the cell comprises a eukaryotic cell, optionally a stem cell or a human cell.
7. A method of predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA of the cell to be modified; and introducing into the cell a complex comprising a Cas9 protein and a guide polynucleotide complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; and further wherein the complex cleaves the DNA and produces the cut site, thus facilitating insertion of the A or the T, respectively, at the cut site; wherein the DNA is genomic DNA; wherein the method does not modify the germline genetic identity of a human being and is not a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.
8. An in vitro method of predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA of the cell to be modified; and introducing into the cell a complex comprising a Cas9 protein and a guide polynucleotide complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; and further wherein the complex cleaves the DNA and produces the cut site, thus facilitating insertion of the A or the T, respectively, at the cut site; wherein the DNA is genomic DNA; wherein the method does not modify the germ line genetic identity of a human being and is not a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.
9. The method of claim 7 or claim 8, further comprising:
determining a frequency of which the inserted nucleotide is A if position 17 of the protospacer is A, or a frequency of which the inserted nucleotide is T if position 17 of the protospacer is T.
10. The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the target region comprises a gene encoding a gene product, preferably wherein the method further comprises reducing or restoring function of a gene product.
11. The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the guide comprises a single-guide RNA.
12. The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the Cas9 protein comprises a Streptococcus pyogenes Cas9 protein or an ortholog thereof.
13. The method of claim 7 or claim 8, wherein the cell comprises a eukaryotic cell, optionally a stem cell, optionally a human cell.
14. Use of a Cas9 guide polynucleotide in a method of predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA of the cell to be modified; and introducing into the cell a complex comprising a Cas9 protein and said guide polynucleotide, the guide polynucleotide being complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; and further wherein the complex cleaves the DNA and produces the cut site, thus facilitating insertion of the A or the T, respectively, at the cut site; wherein the method does not modify the germline genetic identity of a human being and is not a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.
15. Use of a Cas9 guide polynucleotide in an in vitro method of predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA of the cell to be modified; and introducing into the cell a complex comprising a Cas9 protein and said guide polynucleotide, the guide polynucleotide being complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; and further wherein the complex cleaves the DNA and produces the cut site, thus facilitating insertion of the A or the T, respectively, at the cut site; wherein the method does not modify the germ line genetic identity of a human being and is not a method for treatment of the human or animal body by therapy.
16. The use of a Cas9 guide polynucleotide according to claim 14 or claim 15, wherein the insertion of the single nucleotide results in modulation of a function of a gene product or restoration of a gene product.
17. The use of a Cas9 guide polynucleotide according to claim 14 or claim 15 for the generation of a non-human genetically modified organism.
18. A Cas9 guide polynucleotide for use in a gene therapy method for preventing or treating a disease or disorder by predictably inserting an adenine (A) or a thymine (T) nucleotide at a cut site produced by Cas9-mediated cleavage of DNA in a cell, the method comprising: selecting a target region in the DNA of the cell to be modified; and introducing into the cell a complex comprising a Cas9 protein and a guide polynucleotide complementary to a 20 nt protospacer in the target region such that the nucleotide at position 17 of the protospacer corresponds to an A or a T; wherein (i) for insertion of an A at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is A, or (ii) for insertion of a T at the cut site, position 17 of the protospacer is T; and further wherein the complex cleaves the DNA and produces the cut site, thus facilitating insertion of the A or the T, respectively, at the cut site; wherein the DNA is genomic DNA.
</claims>
</document>
