<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/02,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MISRA, PRATEEP
PAL, ARPAN
BHATTACHYARYA, INDRAJIT
AGARWAL, PUNEET
BANDYOPADHYAY, SOMA
DAS, ABHISEK
CHATTOPADHYAY, TANUSHYAM
PANDA, SATANIK
BANERJEE, SNEHASIS
UKIL, ARIJIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65861199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUTOMATION OF DATA ANALYTICS IN AN INTERNET OF THINGS (IOT) PLATFORM
</title>

<abstract>
Advanced analytics refers to theories, technologies, tools, and processes that enable an in-depth understanding and discovery of actionable insights in big data, wherein conventional systems and methods may be prone to errors leading to inaccuracies. Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems and methods for performing data analytics in an IoT platform wherein input data pertaining to problem type, solution associated thereof, sensory information corresponding to sensors deployed in the platform, knowledge of domain expert(s) specific to input data are depicted in graphical knowledge representations, wherein relationships between (i) sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations are determined wherein Machine Learning (ML) models are then applied to the determined relationship for optimizing ML models wherein problem statement, root cause, from one knowledge to another are translated using translation technique(s) to determine root cause analysis and interpretable root cause information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-implemented method, comprising: receiving, input data comprising (i) type of problem and one or more solutions associated with the type of problem, and (ii) sensory information from a plurality of sensors deployed in an Internet of Things (IoT) platform, and (iii) domain knowledge from one or more sources, the domain knowledge is specific to the input data and corresponds to one or more domains (202), wherein the one or more solutions are indicative of a performance metric; representing, using an ontology based format technique, the input data as a plurality of graphical knowledge representations (204); determining, relationship between (i) the plurality of sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations (206); applying, one or more Machine Learning (ML) models on the determined relationship (208); optimizing the one or more ML models based on the performance metric (210); and determining, using the optimized ML models, root cause analysis and interpretable root cause information associated with the root cause analysis, from the relationship determined across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations (212).
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, the interpretable root cause information varies based on the domain knowledge obtained from the one or more sources.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of receiving, input data is preceded by constructing domain knowledge graph for each of the one or more domains and identifying relationship among information across the one or more domains.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the step of determining, relationship between (i) the plurality of sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations comprises identifying jargon in the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations; and translating the jargon into interpretable data using one or more translation techniques.
5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the jargon is translated into the interpretable data at one or more levels comprising a Lexicon level, a word level, a sentence level, a grammar level, or combinations thereof, wherein the method further comprises constructing a database for each of the one or more domains, and wherein the constructed database comprises a mapping between the interpretable data.
6. A system (100), comprising: a memory (102) storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces (106); and
one or more hardware processors (104) coupled to the memory (102) via the one or more communication interfaces (106), wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to: receive, input data comprising (i) type of problem and one or more solutions associated with the type of problem, and (ii) sensory information from a plurality of sensors deployed in an Internet of Things (IoT) platform, and (iii) domain knowledge from one or more sources, the domain knowledge is specific to the input data and corresponds to one or more domains; represent, using an ontology based format technique, the input data as a plurality of graphical knowledge representations; determine, relationship between (i) the plurality of sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations; apply, one or more Machine Learning (ML) models on the determined relationship; optimize the one or more ML models based on the performance metric; and determine, using the optimized ML models, root cause analysis and interpretable root cause information associated with the root cause analysis, from the relationship determined across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations.
7. The system as claimed in claim 6, the interpretable root cause information varies based on the domain knowledge obtained from the one or more sources.
8. The system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to construct, prior to receiving the input data, domain knowledge graph for each of the one or more domains and identify relationship among information across the one or more domains.
9. The system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to identify jargon in the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations, and translate the jargon into interpretable data using one or more translation techniques.
10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the jargon is translated into the interpretable data at one or more levels comprising a Lexicon level, a word level, a sentence level, a grammar level, or combinations thereof, wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to construct a lexical database for each of the one or more domains, and wherein the constructed lexical database comprises a mapping between the interpretable data.
11. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause: receiving, input data comprising (i) type of problem and one or more solutions associated with the type of problem, and (ii) sensory information from a plurality of sensors deployed in an Internet of Things (IoT) platform, and (iii) domain knowledge from one or more sources, the domain knowledge is specific to the input data and corresponds to one or more domains, wherein the one or more solutions are indicative of a performance metric; representing, using an ontology based format technique, the input data as a plurality of graphical knowledge representations; determining, relationship between (i) the plurality of sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations; applying, one or more Machine Learning (ML) models on the determined relationship; optimizing the one or more ML models based on the performance metric; and determining, using the optimized ML models, root cause analysis and interpretable root cause information associated with the root cause analysis, from the relationship determined across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations.
12. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, the interpretable root cause information varies based on the domain knowledge obtained from the one or more sources.
13. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein the step of receiving, input data is preceded by constructing domain knowledge graph for each of the one or more domains and identifying relationship among information across the one or more domains.
14. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 11, wherein the step of determining, relationship between (i) the plurality of sensors and associated attributes and (ii) the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations comprises identifying jargon in the domain knowledge across the plurality of graphical knowledge representations; and translating the jargon into interpretable data using one or more translation techniques.
15. The one or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums of claim 14, wherein the jargon is translated into the interpretable data at one or more levels comprising a Lexicon level, a word level, a sentence level, a grammar level, or combinations thereof, wherein the method further comprises constructing a database for each of the one or more domains, and wherein the constructed database comprises a mapping between the interpretable data.
</claims>
</document>
