<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALASUBRAMANIAN, RAMKUMAR
KUDUVA, KAMALESH KUPPUSAMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69526070
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DETECTING AND PREVENTING AN IMMINENT FAILURE IN A TARGET SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system for detecting and preventing an imminent failure in a target system includes an interface, a processor in communication with the interface, and non-transitory computer readable media in communication with the processor. The interface receives training data items. Each item corresponds to either a service ticket or a machine-generated log that specifies an issue and a resolution to the issue. The instruction code is executed by the processor and causes the processor to group the training data items according to different categories. For each group, the processor trains a model to match the issue of each item of the group with the corresponding resolution and associates a model configuration of the trained model with the category of the group. The processor receives a sequence of new data items that include service tickets or machine generated logs for which a resolution is unknown. The processor groups the new data items according to one or more categories. For each category the processor determines one or more model configurations associated with similar categories; configures the model according to at least one of the model configurations; processes each data item of the group through the configured model; and communicates the resolution generated by the model to a user of the system to facilitate performance of remedial actions on the target system to thereby prevent an imminent failure of the target system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting and preventing an imminent failure in a target system, the system comprising: an interface for receiving training data items, wherein each item corresponds to either a service ticket or a machine-generated log that specifies an issue and a resolution to the issue; a processor in communication with the interface; and non-transitory computer readable media in communication with the processor that stores instruction code, which when executed by the processor, causes the processor to: group the training data items according to different categories; for each group, train a model to match the issue of each item of the group with the corresponding resolution and associate a model configuration of the trained model with the category of the group; receive a sequence of new data items that include service tickets or machine generated logs describing one or more issues for which a resolution is unknown; group the new data items according to one or more categories; for each category: determine one or more model configurations associated with similar categories; configure the model according to at least one of the model configurations; process each data item of the group through the configured model; and communicate the resolution generated by the model to a user of the system to facilitate performance of remedial actions on the target system to thereby prevent an imminent failure of the target system.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the model corresponds to a plurality of base learner models and a high-level learner model arranged as an ensemble, wherein each base learner model is trained to match the issue of each item of the group with the corresponding resolution, and the high-level learner model is trained to match outputs of the base learner models to the corresponding resolution.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the base learner models correspond to one or more of: a Holt-Winters algorithm, an exponential time smoothing (ETS) algorithm, an artificial neural network (ANN), a seasonal auto regressive moving average (SARIMA) algorithm, a network of long short-term memories (LSTM), a gated recurring unit (GRU) algorithm.
4. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the training data is associated with a plurality of different target systems.
5. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the service tickets and machine-generated logs are grouped according to one or both of: (a) a semantic similarity of the service tickets and machine-generated logs; and/or (b) one or more business requirements associated with the service tickets and machine-generated logs.
6. The system according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein each item in a group is input into the model according to a timestamp associated with the item.
7. A method for detecting and preventing an imminent failure in a target system, the method comprising: receiving training data items, wherein each item corresponds to either a service ticket or a machine-generated log that specifies an issue and a resolution to the issue; grouping the training data items according to different categories; for each group, training a model to match the issue of each item of the group with the corresponding resolution and associating a model configuration of the trained model with the category of the group; receiving a sequence of new data items that include service tickets or machine generated logs describing one or more issues for which a resolution is unknown; grouping the new data items according to one or more categories; for each category: determining one or more model configurations associated with similar categories; configuring the model according to at least one of the model configurations; processing each data item of the group through the configured model; and communicating the resolution generated by the model to a user of the system to facilitate performance of remedial actions on the target system to thereby prevent an imminent failure of the target system.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the model corresponds to a plurality of base learner models and a high-level learner model arranged as an ensemble, wherein each base learner model is trained to match the issue of each item of the group with the corresponding resolution, and the high-level learner model is trained to match outputs of the base learner models to the corresponding resolution.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the base learner models correspond to one or more of: a Holt-Winters algorithm, an exponential time smoothing (ETS) algorithm, an artificial neural network (ANN), a seasonal auto regressive moving average (SARIMA) algorithm, a network of long short-term memories (LSTM), a gated recurring unit (GRU) algorithm.
10. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein one or more of the AI logic modules include a training assistant AI module that implements machine learning techniques to identify training information related to the subject area associated with the score being below the threshold.
11. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 10, wherein the training data is associated with a plurality of different target systems.
12. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein the service tickets and machine-generated logs are grouped according to one or both of: (a) a semantic similarity of the service tickets and machine-generated logs; and/or (b) one or more business requirements associated with the service tickets and machine-generated logs.
13. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 12, wherein the service tickets and machine-generated logs are grouped according to one or more business requirements associated with the service tickets and machine-generated logs.
14. The method according to any one of claims 7 to 13, wherein each item in a group is input into the model according to a timestamp associated with the item.
15. A non-transitory computer readable media that stores instruction code for detecting and preventing an imminent failure in a target system, the instruction code being executable by a machine to cause the machine to carry out a method according to any one of claims 7 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
