<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/36,G06F40/211,G06F40/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BABYLON PARTNERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JURIC, DAMIR
KHODADADI, MOHAMMAD
MOORE, JONATHAN
STOILOS, GEORGIOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68536450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR EXTRACTING SEMANTIC TRIPLES FOR BUILDING A KNOWLEDGE BASE
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a computer-implemented method of generating a semantic triple for building a knowledge base to include data patterns associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text. The method comprises: providing a sentence associated with unstructured text including a main verb and a taxonomic verb, the taxonomic verb describing a taxonomic relationship; generating a first frame including a first subject, a first relation, and a first object, the first relation including the main verb, wherein the first subject and the first object each include a phrase including one or more sub-strings; generating a second frame including a second subject, a second relation, and a second object, the second relation including the taxonomic verb, wherein the second subject and the second object each include a phrase including one or more sub-strings; identifying a common sub-string in the first subject and either the second subject or the second object, or a common sub-string in the first object and either the second subject or the second object; generating a semantic triple using the first frame and replacing the first subject or the first object having the common sub-string with the second subject or the second object having the common sub-string; and transmitting the semantic triple for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating a semantic triple for building a knowledge base to include data patterns associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: providing a sentence associated with unstructured text including a main verb and a taxonomic verb, the taxonomic verb describing a taxonomic relationship; generating a first frame including a first subject, a first relation, and a first object, the first relation including the main verb, wherein the first subject and the first object each include a phrase including one or more sub-strings; generating a second frame including a second subject, a second relation, and a second object, the second relation including the taxonomic verb, wherein the second subject and the second object each include a phrase including one or more sub-strings; identifying a common sub-string in the first subject and either the second subject or the second object, or a common sub-string in the first object and either the second subject or the second object; generating a semantic triple using the first frame and replacing the first subject or the first object having the common sub-string with the second subject or the second object having the common sub-string; and transmitting the semantic triple for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein the taxonomic verb stems from the base verb to be.
3. A computer-implemented method of generating a semantic triple for building a knowledge base to include data patterns associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: providing a semantic triple including a subject, a relation, and an object, the subject and the object each including a phrase including one or more sub-strings, and the relation including a verb; identifying that one of the sub-strings of the subject expresses a relation between the other sub-strings of the subject and the object, or that one of the sub-strings of the object expresses a relation between the other sub-strings of the object and the subject; generating a modified semantic triple by: replacing the relation of the triple with the sub-string of the subject or the object, identified as expressing the relation, with the relation; and replacing the subject or the object, including the sub-string expressing the relation, with the remaining sub-strings not used to replace the relation of the triple; and transmitting the modified semantic triple for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base.
4. The method of Claim 3, wherein the identified sub-string is a noun selected from a pre-defined list of nouns known to express a relation.
5. A computer-implemented method of building a knowledge base to include data patterns defining concepts associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: providing a semantic triple including a relation, a subject, and an object, where the subject or the object has no corresponding concept in the knowledge base; determining one or more concepts in the knowledge base related to the subject or the object not having a corresponding concept in the knowledge base; determining a value corresponding to how closely matched the one or more concepts are to the subject or the object; ordering the one or more concepts based on the value; and linking the highest ordered concept to the subject or the object having no corresponding concept in the knowledge base.
6. The method of Claim 5, wherein determining the one or more concepts in the knowledge base related to the subject or the object not having a corresponding concept in the knowledge base includes generating a numerical vector defining the subject or the object, and wherein determining the value corresponding to how closely matched the one or more concepts are to the sentence includes comparing the numerical vector to a vector of the or each concept in the knowledge base to obtain the value.
7. The method of Claim 5 or Claim 6, wherein linking the highest order concept to the subject or the object includes adding the subject or the object as data defining a new concept in the database, and linking the new concept to the highest ordered concept as a semantic type.
8. A computer-implemented method of filtering semantic triples generated for building a knowledge base including data patterns defining concepts associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: receiving a semantic triple including a subject, a relation, and an object; comparing the relation to a pre-defined set of relevant relations; accepting the semantic triple in the event that the relation is present in the pre-defined set of relevant relations, and rejecting the semantic triple in the event that the relation is not present in the pre-defined set of relevant relations; and if the semantic triple is accepted, transmitting the accepted semantic triple for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base, and if the semantic triple is rejected, discarding the semantic triple.
9. The method of Claim 8, wherein the relevant relations include cause, treat, affect, characterize, develop, lead, aggravate, alleviate, damage, obstruct, trigger, transmit, spread, prevent, produce, misdiagnose, and induce.
10. A computer-implemented method of filtering semantic triples generated for building a knowledge base including data patterns defining concepts associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: receiving a semantic triple including a subject, a relation, and an object; comparing the subject and the object to a pre-defined set of semantic types; accepting the semantic triple in the event that the subject and the object are present in the pre-defined set of semantic types, and rejecting the semantic triple in the event that subject and the object are not present in the pre-defined set of semantic types; and if the semantic triple is accepted, transmitting the accepted semantic triple for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base, and if the semantic triple is rejected, discarding the semantic triple.
11. The method of Claim 10, wherein the pre-define set of semantic types includes clinical finding, disease, substance, procedure, animal, manufactured object, body part, body substance, biological function, behaviour, and organism.
12. A computer-implemented method of filtering semantic triples generated for building a knowledge base including data patterns defining concepts associated with semantic triples derived from unstructured text, the method comprising: receiving a semantic triple including a subject, a relation, and an object; determining a numerical value of the relevance of the semantic triple to the knowledge base; ranking the plurality of triples according to the numerical values; and transmitting the semantic triples having a numerical value above a threshold for inclusion as a data pattern in the knowledge base and discarding the semantic triples having a numerical value below the threshold.
13. The method of Claim 12, wherein the numerical value indicates a frequency at which a semantic triple occurs from among the plurality of semantic triples.
14. The method of Claim 13, wherein the numerical value is determined by learning a model from the data patterns of the knowledge base and comparing the plurality of semantic triples to the model.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform the method according to any preceding claim.
</claims>
</document>
