<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16B20/00,G16B40/20,G16C20/00,G16H40/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAJULA, KISHORE
GOEL, ANUKRATI
GUPTA, RAKESH
RAI, BEENA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69526020
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR EVALUATION OF AT LEAST ONE POTENTIAL TASTANT FROM A PLURALITY OF TASTANTS
</title>

<abstract>
A processor implemented method of evaluating at least one potential tastant from a plurality of tastants is provided. The processor implemented method includes at least one of: receiving, information associated with a plurality of molecular activities; generating, a plurality of data-based models based on the known taste index associated with at least one tastant and information from associated molecular structure/descriptors; classifying, a new molecule based on the generated data-based models for the at least one tastant; screening, the one or more classified new molecules in an applicability domain of the generated data-based models based on the physics-based models by at least one molecular modeling technique; and evaluating, the at least one potential tastant from the screened molecules based on at least one of a bioavailability and a toxicity. In an embodiment, the plurality of molecular activities corresponds to a taste index and a binding energy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor implemented method of evaluating at least one potential tastant from a plurality of tastants, comprising: receiving, via one or more hardware processors, information associated with a plurality of molecular activities, wherein the plurality of molecular activities corresponds to a taste index and a binding energy, wherein the binding energy correspond to one or more interactions between at least one molecule and at least one receptor; generating, via the one or more hardware processors, a plurality of data-based models based on the known taste index associated with at least one tastant and information from associated molecular structure/descriptors; classifying, via the one or more hardware processors, a new molecule based on the generated data-based models for the at least one tastant; screening, via the one or more hardware processors, the one or more classified new molecules in an applicability domain of the generated data-based models based on the physics-based models by at least one molecular modeling technique; and evaluating, via the one or more hardware processors, the at least one potential tastant from the screened molecules based on at least one of a bioavailability and a toxicity.
2. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of tastants corresponds to a plurality of molecules.
3. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the new molecule is identified for associated one or more calculated taste class and the taste index, wherein, the one or more calculated taste class associated with the one or more tastants, and the taste index are identified by testing one or more in silico designed molecular databases.
4. The processor implemented method of claim 3, wherein the one or more taste class corresponds to plurality of taste types, wherein the plurality of taste types corresponds to at least one of a sweet, a bitter, an umami, and combination thereof.
5. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generated data-based models correspond to a model for predicting a relationship based on at least one structure of the plurality of molecules.
6. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein in-silico design of one or more molecules comprises at least one of (i) template design, wherein the template design corresponds to creating number of molecules based on at least one particular molecular template by adding one or more functional groups, wherein the one or more generated models are tested based on the created number of molecules and (ii) a molecule fragmentation wherein the molecule fragmentation corresponds to slicing one or more functional groups of the one or more molecules to create one or more new molecules for test.
7. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein one or more molecules are screened based on the binding energy with receptor calculated through one or more molecular modelling techniques, wherein the molecules are screened by an Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity (ADMET) profile.
8. A system (100) for evaluation of at least one potential tastant from a plurality of tastants, comprising: a memory (102) storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces (106); and one or more hardware processors (104) coupled to the memory (102) via the one or more communication interfaces (106), wherein the one or more hardware processors (104) are configured by the instructions to: receive, information associated with a plurality of molecular activities, wherein the plurality of molecular activities corresponds to a taste index and a binding energy, wherein the binding energy correspond to one or more interactions between at least one molecule and at least one receptor; generate, a plurality of data-based models based on the known taste index associated with at least one tastant and information from associated molecular structure/descriptors; classify, a new molecule based on the generated data-based models for the at least one tastant; screen, the one or more classified new molecules in an applicability domain of the generated data-based models based on the physics-based models by at least one molecular modeling technique; and evaluate, the at least one potential tastant from the screened molecules based on at least one of a bioavailability and a toxicity.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of tastants corresponds to a plurality of molecules.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the new molecule is identified for associated one or more calculated taste class and the taste index, wherein, the one or more calculated taste class associated with the one or more tastants, and the taste index are identified by testing one or more in silico designed molecular databases.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more taste class corresponds to plurality of taste types, wherein the plurality of taste types corresponds to at least one of a sweet, a bitter, an umami, and combination thereof.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the generated data-based models correspond to a model for predicting a relationship based on at least one structure of the plurality of molecules.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein in-silico design of one or more molecules comprises at least one of (i) template design, wherein the template design corresponds to creating number of molecules based on at least one particular molecular template by adding one or more functional groups, wherein the one or more generated models are tested based on the created number of molecules and (ii) a molecule fragmentation, wherein the molecule fragmentation corresponds to slicing one or more functional groups of the one or more molecules to create one or more new molecules.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein one or more molecules are screened based on the binding energy with receptor calculated through one or more molecular modelling techniques, wherein the molecules are screened by an Absorption, Distribution, Metabolism, Excretion, and Toxicity (ADMET) profile.
</claims>
</document>
