<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING ORION STAR TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PENG, SHOUYE
CHEN, JUNYU
LIU, YUANYUAN
JIA, LEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59775234
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VOICE RESPONSE METHOD AND DEVICE, AND SMART DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A voice response method, apparatus and intelligent device are disclosed. The method includes: receiving voice information sent by a user; determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word; and if so, outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule. Thus, if there is a wake-up word in voice information received by the intelligent device, the intelligent device outputs a response voice according to a preset response rule. That is, after the user sends a wake-up word, the intelligent device outputs a voice to respond to the wake-up word. Therefore, the user can directly determine that the device has been woken up and can have a better experience.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A voice response method, applicable to an intelligent device, comprising: receiving voice information sent by a user; determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word; and if so, outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word comprises: inputting the voice information into a pre-stored model for recognition, wherein the model is obtained by learning samples of voice information comprising the wake-up word; and determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word according to a result of the recognition.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule comprises: selecting randomly a response mode from at least two preset response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the selected response mode;
or determining a current time, determining a response mode associated with the current time from a preset correspondence between time periods and response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the determined response mode.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: recording, after outputting the response voice, the response mode corresponding to the response voice as a last response mode; and wherein the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule comprises: searching the last response mode in a pre-stored list of response modes, determining a response mode after the last response mode in the list as a current response mode, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the current response mode;
or selecting a target response mode different from the last response mode from at least two preset response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the target response mode.
5. The method of claim 3 or 4, further comprising: receiving information for adjusting response modes sent by a cloud server; and adjusting a response mode configured on the intelligent device with the information for adjusting response modes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule comprises: determining a current time and news voice that corresponds to the current time and is sent by the cloud server; and outputting the response voice and the news voice.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule comprises: checking whether a current time period is associated with a voice for a marked event; and if so, outputting the response voice and the voice for the marked event.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: receiving update information sent by the cloud server, the update information comprising a time period and an associated voice for a marked event; and adjusting a voice for a marked event stored on the intelligent device with the update information.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein after the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule, the method further comprises: determining the response voice as a noise to the intelligent device when the intelligent device receives the response voice; and eliminating the noise.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein before the step of receiving the voice information sent by the user, the method further comprises: acquiring ambient sound information in the surroundings; and wherein after the step of outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule, the method further comprises: receiving new voice information sent by the user; determining target ambient sound information from the ambient sound information, wherein a time interval between the target ambient sound information and the new voice information is in a preset range; merging the new voice information and the target ambient sound information to merged voice information; and sending the merged voice information to the cloud server for analysis.
11. A voice response apparatus, applicable to an intelligent device, comprising: a first receiving module, configured for receiving voice information sent by a user; a determining module, configured for determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word; and if so, triggering an outputting module; and the outputting module, configured for outputting a response voice according to a preset response rule.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the determining module is further configured for: inputting the voice information into a pre-stored model for recognition, wherein the model is obtained by learning samples of voice information comprising the wake-up word; and determining whether the voice information contains a wake-up word according to a result of the determination; and if so, triggering the outputting module.
13. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the outputting module is further configured for: selecting randomly a response mode from at least two preset response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the selected response mode;
or determining a current time, determining a response mode associated with the current time from a preset correspondence between time periods and response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the determined response mode.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a recording module, configured for recording, after outputting the response voice, the response mode corresponding to the response voice as a last response mode; wherein the outputting module is further configured for: searching the last response mode in a pre-stored list of response modes, determining a response mode after the last response mode in the list as a current response mode, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the current response mode;
or selecting a target response mode different from the last response mode from at least two preset response modes, and outputting the response voice corresponding to the target response mode.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 or 14, further comprising: a second receiving module, configured for receiving information for adjusting response modes sent by a cloud server; and a first adjusting module, configured for adjusting a response mode configured on the intelligent device with the information for adjusting response modes.
16. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the outputting module is further configured for:
determining a current time and news voice that corresponds to the current time and is sent by the cloud server; and outputting the response voice and the news voice.
17. The apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the outputting module is further configured for: checking whether a current time period is associated with a voice for a marked event; and if so, outputting the response voice and the voice for the marked event.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, further comprising: a third receiving module, configured for receiving update information sent by the cloud server, the update information comprising a time period and an associated voice for a marked event; and a second adjusting module, configured for adjusting a voice for a marked event stored on the intelligent device with the update information.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising:
a noise eliminating module, configured for determining the response voice as a noise to the intelligent device when the intelligent device receives the response voice; and eliminating the noise.
20. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: an acquisition module, configured for acquiring ambient sound information in the surroundings; a fourth receiving module, configured for receiving new voice information sent by the user; a determination module, configured for determining target ambient sound information from the ambient sound information, a time interval between the target ambient sound information and the new voice information is in a preset range; a merging module, configured for merging the new voice information and the target ambient sound information to merged voice information; and a sending module, configured for sending the merged voice information to the cloud server for analysis.
21. An intelligent device, comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the memory is configured to store executable program codes, and the processor executes a program corresponding to the executable program codes by reading the executable program codes stored on the memory to perform the voice response method of any of claims 1-10.
22. Executable program codes that, when executed, carry out the voice response method of any of claims 1-10.
23. A computer-readable storage medium for storing executable program codes that, when executed, carry out the voice response method of any of claims 1-10.
</claims>
</document>
