<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELTA SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUKOVSKY, GREGORY
TENEH, NIMROD
NOVOSELSKY, AKIVA
ARDON, GUY
SIMKO, OR
NOTKIN, ERAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69630143
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IDENTIFICATION OF AN AIRBORNE OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a processor-based method of identifying an airborne object, the method comprising: obtaining a series of target Radar Cross Section (RCS) measurements of an airborne object, with associated aspect angles of the airborne object relative to a measuring radar; calculating at least one estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series in accordance with the series of target aspect angles, a candidate aircraft type, and at least one candidate aircraft body orientation; and determining an identification of the airborne object with an aircraft type, in accordance with the estimations of a candidate aircraft RCS time series, and the series of target RCS measurements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-based method of identifying an airborne object, the method comprising: a) obtaining data indicative of a series of target Radar Cross Section (RCS) measurements of an airborne object, wherein each target RCS measurement is associated with data indicative of aspect angles of the airborne object relative to a measuring radar at a respective time of measurement, thereby giving rise to a series of target aspect angles of the airborne object; b) calculating at least one estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series, each estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series being calculated in accordance with, at least, the series of target aspect angles, a respective candidate aircraft type, and at least one candidate aircraft body orientation; and c) determining data indicative of identification of the airborne object with an aircraft type, in accordance with, at least, the at least one estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series, and the series of target RCS measurements.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: a flight mode was inferred in accordance with the series of target aspect angles of the airborne object; and at least one candidate airborne object body orientation was selected in accordance with the inferred flight mode.
3. The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein calculating at least one RCS value of an estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series comprises: calculating a radar-beam direction in an aircraft body frame, in accordance with, at least, aspect angles associated with a respective target RCS measurement, and a candidate airborne object body orientation of the at least one candidate airborne object body orienations; and estimating an RCS value in accordance with the calculated radar-beam direction and the respective candidate aircraft type.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the determining data indicative of identification of the airborne object with an aircraft type comprises:
for each estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series, calculating a degree of matching between the estimation and the series of target RCS measurements, thereby giving rise to data indicative of identification of the airborne object with the respective candidate aircraft type.
5. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein the determining data indicative of identification of the airborne object with an aircraft type comprises: a) training a machine learning model in accordance with a training dataset comprising at least one training example,
wherein each training example comprises: i. feature data derivative of an estimation of an candidate aircraft RCS time series of the at least one estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series, and ii. data indicative of the candidate aircraft type in accordance with which the estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series was calculated, and wherein the machine learning model is configured to receive runtime input comprising data indicative of a series of target RCS measurements, and to generate output comprising data indicative of an aircraft type learned to be associated with the input, in accordance with the training of the machine learning model; and b) providing data indicative of the series of target RCS measurements as input to the trained machine learning model, resulting in output of data indicative of an aircraft type, thereby giving rise to data indicative of identification of the airborne object with an aircraft type.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the flight mode was inferred by a method comprising:
selecting the flight mode from a group that includes at least one of: level flight, ascending flight, descending flight, and banked turn.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the estimating an RCS value in accordance with the calculated radar-beam direction and the respective candidate aircraft type comprises:
retrieving data indicative of an RCS value, according to, at least, the calculated radar-beam direction and the respective candidate aircraft type, from an RCS database.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein the calculating a degree of matching between the estimation and the series of target RCS measurements comprises: a) applying empirical mode decomposition to the series of target RCS measurements, thereby giving rise to a first group of intrinsic mode functions (IMFs); b) applying empirical mode decomposition to the estimation, thereby giving rise to a second group of IMFs; c) selecting, from the first group of IMFs, an IMF with a highest rate of fluctuations, giving rise to a first selected IMF; d) selecting, from the second group of IMFs, an IMF with a same frequency as the first selected IMF, giving rise to a second selected IMF; and e) calculating a linear correlation between the first selected IMF and the second selected IMF, resulting in a first correlation value; thereby giving rise to a degree of matching, based on a single IMF frequency, between the estimation and the series of target RCS measurements.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein a) - b) are executed in realtime.
10. The method of claim 5 or 9, wherein the machine learning model comprises a neural network comprising an input layer, an output layer, and at least one hidden layer.
11. The method of any of claims 5, 9-10, wherein the data derivative of an estimation of a candidate aircraft RCS time series comprises: a) at least one of: maximum RCS value, minimum RCS value, mean RCS value, RCS time series variance, RCS time series skewness, RCS time series kurtosis, RCS time series energy, RCS time series Hjorth mobility, and RCS time series Hjorth complexity; and b) data derivative of one or more Intrinsic Mode Functions (IMFs), the IMFs being derived according to empirical mode decomposition (EMD) of the estimation.
12. The method of claim 8, additionally comprising: f) selecting, from the first group of IMFs, an IMF with a second-highest rate of fluctuations, giving rise to a third IMF; g) selecting, from the second group of IMFs, an IMF with a same frequency as the third selected IMF, giving rise to a fourth selected IMF; and h) calculating a linear correlation between the third IMF and the fourth IMF, resulting in a second correlation value; and i) calculating a degree of matching in accordance with the first correlation value and the second correlation value; thereby giving rise to a degree of matching, based on two IMF frequencies, between the estimation and the series of target RCS measurements.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the data derivative of each IMF of the one or more IMFs comprises at least one of: maximum IMF value, minimum IMF value, number of zero crossings, IMF variance, IMF skewness, IMF kurtosis, IMF energy, IMF Hjorth mobility, and IMF Hjorth complexity.
14. A target identification system comprising a processing and memory circuitry, and configured to operate in conjunction with a radar unit and to provide identification of an airborne object according to radar target measurement data, in accordance with any one of Claims 1-13.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method of identifying an airborne object in accordance with any one of Claims 1 - 13.
</claims>
</document>
