<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B23/02,H02M7/48,H02P29/024
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YASKAWA ELECTRIC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KINOMURA, HIROFUMI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63354712
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER CONVERSION DEVICE, SERVER, AND DATA GENERATION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A power conversion device 100 includes a power conversion unit 110 configured to generate AC power for driving a controlled object 10 and provide the AC power to a motor 12, and an abnormality detection unit 120 configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object 10 based on an index value associated with a condition of the motor 12.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power conversion device comprising: a power conversion unit configured to generate AC power for driving a controlled object including a movable part and a motor configured to drive the movable part and provide the AC power to the motor; and an abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object based on an index associated with a condition of the motor driving the movable part.
2. The power conversion device according to claim 1, wherein
the abnormality detection unit includes a first abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object based on a relation between a first index and a second index associated with the condition of the motor.
3. The power conversion device according to claim 2, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit includes
an upper limit setting unit configured to set an upper limit of a correlation profile representing a change in the second index in response to a change in the first index,
a lower limit setting unit configured to set a lower limit of the correlation profile, and
a first determination unit configured to determine that there is an abnormality in the controlled object in a case where a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index is outside a range between the upper limit and the lower limit of the correlation profile.
4. The power conversion device according to claim 3, wherein
the upper limit setting unit and the lower limit setting unit are configured to set the upper limit and the lower limit so that a width of the correlation profile in a fluctuation direction of the second index varies depending on the first index.
5. The power conversion device according to claim 4, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
an upper limit data acquisition unit configured to acquire an upper limit input specifying a combination of a value of the first index and an upper limit value of the second index, and
a lower limit data acquisition unit configured to acquire a lower limit inputs specifying a combination of a value of the first index and a lower limit value of the second index,
the upper limit setting unit sets the upper limit of the correlation profile by bridging gaps between a plurality of upper limit inputs acquired by the upper limit data acquisition unit with a point sequence or a function, and
the lower limit setting unit sets the lower limit of the correlation profile by bridging gaps between a plurality of lower limit inputs acquired by the lower limit data acquisition unit with a point sequence or a function.
6. The power conversion device according to claim 4, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
a data storage unit configured to store a set of log data of combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index,
the upper limit setting unit sets the upper limit of the correlation profile based on the log data stored in the data storage unit, and
the lower limit setting unit sets the lower limit of the correlation profile based on the log data stored in the data storage unit.
7. The power conversion device according to claim 6, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
a scan control unit configured to control the power conversion unit to generate AC power so as to change the first index and output the AC power to the motor,
the data storage unit stores the log data while the power conversion unit is under control of the scan control unit, and
the upper limit setting unit and the lower limit setting unit set the upper limit and the lower limit of the correlation profile based on a fluctuation among at least two sets of the log data.
8. The power conversion device according to any one of claims 3 to 7, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
a base setting unit configured to set a baseline representing a change in a base value of the second index in response to a change in the first index,
the upper limit setting unit sets the upper limit of the correlation profile above the baseline, and
the lower limit setting unit sets the lower limit of the correlation profile below the baseline.
9. The power conversion device according to claim 8, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
a base data acquisition unit configured to acquire base input corresponding to a combination of a value of the first index and a base value of the second index, and
the base setting unit sets the baseline by bridging gaps between a plurality of base inputs acquired by the base data acquisition unit with a point sequence or a function.
10. The power conversion device according to claim 4, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit further includes
a scan control unit configured to control the power conversion unit to generate AC power so as to change the first index and output the AC power to the motor,
a data storage unit configured to store a set of log data of a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index while the power conversion unit is under control of the scan control unit,
a base setting unit configured to set a baseline representing a change in a base value of the second index in response to a change in the first index based on the log data, and
a width data acquisition unit configured to acquire width input specifying a combination of a value of the first index and a width of the correlation profile,
the upper limit setting unit calculates upper limit values of the second index based on the baseline and a plurality of width inputs and sets the upper limit of the correlation profile by bridging gaps between the upper limit values of the second index with a point sequence or a function, and
the lower limit setting unit calculates lower limit values of the second index based on the baseline and the plurality of width inputs and sets the lower limit of the correlation profile by bridging gaps between the lower limit values of the second index with a point sequence or a function.
11. The power conversion device according to claim 2, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit detects the abnormality in the controlled object in response to an input including a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index using a neural network.
12. The power conversion device according to claim 2, wherein
the first abnormality detection unit includes
a data transmission unit configured to transmit log data of a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index to a server for machine-learning, and
a second determination unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object in response to an input including a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index using a neural network built by machine-learning in the server based on the log data.
13. The power conversion device according to any one of claims 2 to 12, wherein
the first index is a command value or detection value associated with a driving speed of the motor, and
the second index is a detection value associated with a driving force of the motor.
14. The power conversion device according to any one of claims 2 to 12, wherein
the first index is a command value or detection value associated with a driving force of the motor, and
the second index is a detection value associated with a driving speed of the motor.
15. The power conversion device according to any one of claims 1 to 14, wherein
the abnormality detection unit includes a second abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object based on a relation between a value of a third index associated with a condition of the motor driving the movable part and a trend value derived from past values of the third index acquired during a period from a predetermined time before to a time of acquisition of the value of the third index.
16. The power conversion device according to claim 15, wherein
the second abnormality detection unit includes
a trend calculation unit configured to calculate the trend value based on the past values of the third index,
a deviation calculation unit configured to calculate a deviation corresponding to a difference between the value and the trend value of the third index, and
a third determination unit configured to determine whether there is an abnormality in the controlled object based on a magnitude of the deviation.
17. The power conversion device according to claim 16, wherein
the second abnormality detection unit further includes
a filter processing unit configured to apply, to the deviation, low-pass filtering using past values of the past deviation, and
the third determination unit determines whether there is an abnormality in the controlled object based on the deviation to which the filtering has been applied by the filter processing unit.
18. The power conversion device according to claim 16 or 17, wherein
the trend calculation unit calculates the trend value of the third index by applying low-pass filtering using the past values of the third index to a value of the third index.
19. A server comprising: a data storage unit configured to acquire a set of log data of a combination of a value of a first index and a value of a second index from a power conversion device, the power conversion device comprising: a power conversion unit configured to generate AC power for driving a controlled object including a movable part and a motor configured to drive the movable part and provide the AC power to the motor; and an abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object based on the first index and the second index associated with a condition of the motor driving the movable part; and a model building unit configured to build a neural network by machine-learning based on the log data stored in the data storage unit, the neural network being configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object in response to an input including a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index.
20. A data generation method comprising: acquiring a set of log data of a combination of a value of a first index and a value of a second index from a power conversion device, the power conversion device comprising: a power conversion unit configured to generate AC power for driving a controlled object including a movable part and a motor configured to drive the movable part and provide the AC power to the motor; and an abnormality detection unit configured to detect an abnormality in the controlled object based on the first index and the second index associated with a condition of the motor driving the movable part; and generating data by machine-learning based on the log data stored, the data being used for detecting an abnormality in the controlled object in response to an input including a combination of a value of the first index and a value of the second index.
</claims>
</document>
