<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/11,G06F3/0346,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
AARTS, VINCENT ALEXANDER RUDOLF
RISPENS, SIETSE MENNO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64401991
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETERMINING A TRANSFORMATION MATRIX
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect, there is provided a method of operating an apparatus to determine a transformation matrix for measurements from an accelerometer that is worn by a subject, the apparatus comprising a memory unit arranged to store information for several activity events, the method comprising (i) detecting (202) an activity event in acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer, wherein the subject is in one or more postures during the activity event; (ii) determining (204) at least one quality indicator related to the detected activity event; (iii) determining (206) whether each of the at least one quality indicators meets a respective predetermined criterion; (iv) responsive to at least one quality indicator meeting the respective predetermined criterion, deciding (208) whether information related to the detected activity event can be stored in the memory unit, and if so, storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit together with information related to one or more other activity events if any; (v) determining (210) whether a calibration procedure should be performed based on information stored in the memory unit, and if so, processing the stored information to determine a transformation matrix, wherein the transformation matrix relates a frame of reference of the accelerometer to a frame of reference of the subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating an apparatus to determine a transformation matrix for measurements from an accelerometer that is worn by a subject, the apparatus comprising a memory unit arranged to store information for several activity events, the method comprising: (i) detecting (202) an activity event in acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer, wherein the subject is in one or more postures during the activity event; (ii) determining (204) at least one quality indicator related to the detected activity event; (iii) determining (206) whether each of the at least one quality indicators meets a respective predetermined criterion; (iv) responsive to at least one quality indicator meeting the respective predetermined criterion, deciding (208) whether information related to the detected activity event can be stored in the memory unit, and if so, storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit together with information related to one or more other activity events if any; (v) determining (210) whether a calibration procedure should be performed based on information stored in the memory unit, and if so, processing the stored information to determine a transformation matrix, wherein the transformation matrix relates a frame of reference of the accelerometer to a frame of reference of the subject.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: (vi) after step (v), repeating steps (i)-(v) for additional acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer.
3. A method according to claim 2, wherein repeating step (i) comprises: detecting an activity event by the subject using acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer and the determined transformation matrix.
4. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the at least one quality indicator is indicative of the suitability of the detected activity event for use in the calibration procedure.
5. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein the step of deciding (208) whether information related to the detected activity event can be stored in a memory unit comprises determining whether there is sufficient space in the memory unit to store information related to the detected activity event;
responsive to determining that there is sufficient space, storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit;
responsive to determining that there is insufficient space in the memory unit for storing the information, comparing the at least one quality indicator related to the detected activity event to corresponding quality indicators related to a plurality of previously detected activity events for which information is stored in the memory unit;
determining whether to store information related to the detected activity event in place of stored information for a previously detected activity event based on the comparison, and if so, storing the storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit, otherwise discarding information related to the detected activity event.
6. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein step (v) comprises determining whether information related to at least a predetermined number of activity events has been stored in the memory unit.
7. A method according to any preceding claim, wherein step (v) comprises determining whether the calibration procedure can be performed based on an amount of variation between respective mean gravity vectors for each activity event stored in the memory unit.
8. A computer program product comprising a computer readable medium, the computer readable medium having computer readable code embodied therein, the computer readable code being configured such that, on execution by a suitable computer or processor, the computer or processor is caused to perform the method of any of claims 1-7.
9. An apparatus (100) to determine a transformation matrix for measurements from an accelerometer (108) that is worn by a subject, the apparatus (100) comprising a memory unit (104) arranged to store information for several activity events, the apparatus (100) further comprising: a processing unit (102) that is coupled to the memory unit (104), wherein the processing unit (102) is configured to: (i) detect an activity event in acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer (108), wherein the subject is in one or more postures during the activity event; (ii) determine at least one quality indicator related to the detected activity event; (iii) determine whether each of the at least one quality indicators meets a respective predetermined criterion; (iv) responsive to at least one quality indicator meeting the respective predetermined criterion, decide whether information related to the detected activity event can be stored in the memory unit (104), and if so, store information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit (104) together with information related to one or more other activity events if any; (v) determine whether a calibration procedure should be performed based on information stored in the memory unit (104), and if so, process the stored information to determine a transformation matrix, wherein the transformation matrix relates a frame of reference of the accelerometer (108) to a frame of reference of the subject.
10. An apparatus (100) according to claim 9, wherein the processing unit (102) is further configured to: (vi) after operation (v), repeat operations (i)-(v) for additional acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer (108).
11. An apparatus (100) according to claim 10, wherein repeating operation (i) comprises: detecting an activity event by the subject using acceleration measurements obtained by the accelerometer (108) and the determined transformation matrix.
12. An apparatus (100) according to any of claims 9-11, wherein the at least one quality indicator is indicative of the suitability of the detected activity event for use in the calibration procedure.
13. An apparatus (100) according to any of claims 9-12, wherein the processing unit (102) is configured to determine whether information related to the detected activity event can be stored in a memory unit (104) by determining whether there is sufficient space in the memory unit (104) to store information related to the detected activity event;
responsive to determining that there is sufficient space, storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit (104);
responsive to determining that there is insufficient space in the memory unit (104) for storing the information, comparing the at least one quality indicator related to the detected activity event to corresponding quality indicators related to a plurality of previously detected activity events for which information is stored in the memory unit (104);
determining whether to store information related to the detected activity event in place of stored information for a previously detected activity event based on the comparison, and if so, storing the storing information related to the detected activity event in the memory unit (104), otherwise discarding information related to the detected activity event.
14. An apparatus (100) according to any of claims 9-13, wherein operation (v) comprises determining whether information related to at least a predetermined number of activity events has been stored in the memory unit (104).
15. An apparatus (100) according to any of claims 9-14, wherein the processing unit (102) is configured to determine whether the calibration procedure can be performed based on an amount of variation between respective mean gravity vectors for each activity event stored in the memory unit (104).
</claims>
</document>
