<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/27,H04B17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, SUNGBUM
LEE, SOONYOUNG
CHO, MINSUNG
CHANG, SANGHYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66992977
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR COMMUNICATION ENVIRONMENT ANALYSIS AND NETWORK DESIGN CONSIDERING MOVABLE OBJECT
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a communication technique for combining a 5G communication system with loT technology for supporting a higher data transmission rate than a 4G system, and a system thereof. The present disclosure can be applied to 5G communication and loT related technology-based intelligent services (for example, smart homes, smart buildings, smart cities, smart cars or connected cars, health care, digital education, retail business, security and safety related services, etc.). A method for identifying a transmission characteristic of a radio signal in a wireless communication system according to one embodiment of the present invention comprises the steps of: identifying a signal transmission position; identifying a signal reception position; identifying an area in which a movable object is located between the signal transmission position and the signal reception position; identifying a characteristic of the movable object in the area; and identifying a transmission characteristic of a radio signal transmitted from the signal transmission position to the signal reception position based on the characteristic of the movable object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying a transmission characteristic of a radio signal in a wireless communication system, the method comprising: identifying a signal transmission position; identifying a signal reception position; identifying an area in which a movable object is located between the signal transmission position and the signal reception position; identifying a characteristic of the movable object in the area; and identifying a transmission characteristic of a radio signal transmitted from the signal transmission position to the signal reception position, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a propagation characteristic of a radio signal in the area determined based on the characteristic of the movable object; and identifying a size of the movable object determined based on the characteristic of the movable object, wherein the transmission characteristic of the radio signal is identified by considering that an object having the size and the propagation characteristic of the radio signal is located in the area.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of the movable object includes at least one of a size of the movable object, a speed of the movable object, a material of the movable object, and a number of movable objects that have passed on the area per unit time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of the movable object is obtained based on image information associated with the area, and
wherein the characteristic of the movable object is identified based on congestion information of the movable object.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying at least one of permittivity, reflectivity, transmittance, and a diffraction coefficient associated with radio signal transmission in the area, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristic of the movable object includes congestion information due to the movable object on a time interval.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a virtual three-dimensional object having a size and a material determined based on the characteristic of the movable object, wherein the transmission characteristic of the radio signal is identified by considering that the virtual three-dimensional object is located in the area.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a signal transmitted to the transmission position, based on the characteristic of the movable object; and determining information to be reported by a receiver at the reception position, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
9. A computing device for identifying a transmission characteristic of a radio signal in a wireless communication system, the computing device comprising: a transceiver configured to transmit and receive information; and a controller configured to be connected to the transceiver, identify a signal transmission position, identify a signal reception position, identify an area in which a movable object is located between the signal transmission position and the signal reception position, identify a characteristic of the movable object in the area, and identify a transmission characteristic of a radio signal transmitted from the signal transmission position to the signal reception position, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
10. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the controller is configured to identify a propagation characteristic of a radio signal in the area determined based on the characteristic of the movable object and identify a size of the movable object determined based on the characteristic of the movable object,
wherein the transmission characteristic of the radio signal is identified by considering that an object having the size and the propagation characteristic of the radio signal is located in the area.
11. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the characteristic of the movable object includes at least one of a size of the movable object, a speed of the movable object, a material of the movable object, and a number of movable objects that have passed on the area per unit time.
12. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the characteristic of the movable object is obtained based on image information associated with the area, and
wherein the characteristic of the movable object is identified based on congestion information of the movable object.
13. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the controller is configured to identify at least one of permittivity, reflectivity, transmittance, and a diffraction coefficient associated with radio signal transmission in the area, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
14. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the characteristic of the movable object includes congestion information due to the movable object on a time interval,
wherein the controller is configured to identify a virtual three-dimensional object having a size and a material determined based on the characteristic of the movable object, and
wherein the transmission characteristic of the radio signal is identified by considering that the virtual three-dimensional object is located in the area.
15. The computing device of claim 9, wherein the controller is configured to determine a signal transmitted to the transmission position based on the characteristic of the movable object and determine information to be reported by a receiver at the reception position, based on the characteristic of the movable object.
</claims>
</document>
