<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/04,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TATA CONSULTANCY SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAIN, PUSHP
MISRA, PRATEEP
PANDA, SATANIK
PATEL, DEVANG
SHARMA, ANIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67809316
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR IMPROVING SAFETY IN WORKSPACE
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates generally to safety improvement in a workspace. The method includes creating a context model associated with the workspace by defining contextual domain and a plurality of safety violation rules for safety standard operating procedures (SOPs) of digitally augmented assets corresponding to the physical entities present in the workspace. Further, the method includes monitoring, in real-time, states of each of the digitally augmented assets by obtaining sensor-based data from a sensor devices deployed in a smart space environment implemented in the workspace. SOP violations are triggered as events on a comparison of the states of digitally augmented assets with the safety violation rules using the context model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-implemented method for improving safety in a workspace, the method comprising: creating, via one or more hardware processors, a context model associated with the workspace by defining contextual domain and a plurality of safety violation rules for safety standard operating procedures (SOPs) of a plurality of digitally augmented assets corresponding to a plurality of physical entities present in the workspace; monitoring, in real-time, states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets by obtaining sensor-based data from a plurality of sensor devices deployed in a smart space environment implemented in the workspace, via the one or more hardware processors; wherein the sensor-based data comprises at least an operation data and movement data of the plurality of sensor devices; and triggering, via the one or more hardware processors, SOPs violations as events, based on a comparison of states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets with the plurality of safety violation rules using the context model.
2. The processor implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of safety violation rules being associated with process transition points of the states of the plurality of digitally augmented assets.
3. The processor implemented method of claim 3, wherein defining the plurality of safety violation rules comprises: determining change in the process transition points of the states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets; identifying the process transitions to be associated with a set of rules satisfying a deterministic Finite automata (DFA) for event driven work flows; and translating the process transitions into the plurality of safety violation rules.
4. The processor implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a response to the triggering of the SOPs violations; and dynamically updating one or more of the plurality of safety violation rules based on response to the triggering of SOPs violations.
5. The processor implemented method of claim 1, further comprising automatically resolving SOP violations by performing root cause analysis with previous history of violations stored in the context model.
6. The processor implemented method of claim 1, further comprising providing recommendations of the SOP violations based on the monitoring of the states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets.
7. The processor implemented method of claim 1, further comprising training the context model with the plurality of safety violation rules using at least one of the supervised and unsupervised learning models.
8. A system (200), comprising: a memory (204) storing instructions; one or more communication interfaces (206); and one or more hardware processors (202) coupled to the memory (204) via the one or more communication interfaces (206), wherein the one or more hardware processors (204) are configured by the instructions to: create a context model associated with the workspace by defining contextual domain and a plurality of safety violation rules for safety standard operating procedures (SOPs) of a plurality of digitally augmented assets corresponding to the plurality of physical entities present in the workspace; monitor, in real-time, states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets by obtaining sensor-based data from a plurality of sensor devices deployed in a smart space environment implemented in the workspace; wherein the sensor-based data comprises at least an operation data and movement data of the plurality of sensor devices; and trigger SOP violations as events based on a comparison of states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets with the plurality of safety violation rules using the context model.
9. The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of safety violation rules being associated with process transition points of the states of the plurality of digitally augmented assets.
10. The system of claim 11, wherein to define the plurality of safety violation rules, the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to: determine change in the process transition points of the states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets; identify the process transitions to be associated with a set of rules satisfying a Deterministic Finite Automata (DFA) for event driven work flows; and translate the process transitions into of the plurality of safety violation rules.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to: receive a response to the triggering of the SOP violation; and dynamically update one or more of the plurality of safety violation rules based on response to the triggering of SOP violations.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to automatically resolve SOP violations by performing root cause analysis with previous history of violations stored in the context model.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to provide recommendations of the SOP violations based on the monitoring of the states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured by the instructions to train the context model with the plurality of safety violation rules using at least one of the supervised and unsupervised learning models.
15. One or more non-transitory machine readable information storage mediums comprising one or more instructions which when executed by one or more hardware processors cause: creating, via one or more hardware processors, a context model associated with the workspace by defining contextual domain and a plurality of safety violation rules for safety standard operating procedures (SOPs) of a plurality of digitally augmented assets corresponding to a plurality of physical entities present in the workspace; monitoring, in real-time, states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets by obtaining sensor-based data from a plurality of sensor devices deployed in a smart space environment implemented in the workspace, via the one or more hardware processors; wherein the sensor-based data comprises at least an operation data and movement data of the plurality of sensor devices; and triggering, via the one or more hardware processors, SOPs violations as events, based on a comparison of states of each of the plurality of digitally augmented assets with the plurality of safety violation rules using the context model.
</claims>
</document>
