<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F7/20,G03F9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASML NETHERLANDS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRANTJES, NICOLAAS PETRUS MARCUS
COX, MATTHIJS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64746152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR CONTROLING A MANUFACTURING PROCESS AND ASSOCIATED APPARATUSES
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a method and associated apparatus for determining performance metric corrections relating to a performance metric of a lithographic process. The method comprises obtaining a first set of pre-exposure metrology data, (for example having been measured on a substrate in a process external to an exposure process to expose a structure on the substrate). The first set of pre-exposure metrology data is processed to remove control components which are at least partially correctable by a control process which is part of the lithographic process. A trained model is applied to the processed pre-exposure metrology data to determine said performance metric corrections for said substrate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining performance metric corrections relating to a performance metric of a lithographic process, the method comprising: obtaining a first set of pre-exposure metrology data, wherein said first set of pre-exposure metrology data comprises dense pre-exposure metrology data; processing the first set of pre-exposure metrology data to remove control components which are at least partially correctable by a control process which is part of the lithographic process, to obtain processed pre-exposure metrology data; and applying a trained model on said processed pre-exposure metrology data to determine said performance metric corrections for said substrate.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first set of pre-exposure metrology data comprises data related to distortion of the substrate.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein said set of pre-exposure metrology data is of a similar type, but more densely measured, pre-exposure metrology data than that measured for said control process which is part of the lithographic process.
4. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein the first set of pre-exposure metrology data has been measured on a substrate in a process external to an exposure process for exposing structures on the substrate.
5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first set of pre-exposure metrology data comprises at least external alignment data as distinct from a second set of pre-exposure metrology data, the second set of pre-exposure metrology data comprising at least scanner alignment data having been measured on the substrate by an exposure apparatus which performs the exposure process and control process.
6. A method as claimed in claim 4 or 5, wherein the first set of pre-exposure metrology data comprises at least external leveling data as distinct from a second set of pre-exposure metrology data, the second set of pre-exposure metrology data comprising at least scanner leveling data having been measured on the substrate by an exposure apparatus which performs the exposure process and control process.
7. A method as claimed in any preceding claim, wherein said step of applying a trained model comprises performing a model mapping based on first features extracted from said processed pre-exposure metrology data, said model mapping being operable to map said first features to corresponding second features previously observed in post processing metrology data relating to said performance metric, said post processing metrology data having been used to train the model.
8. A method as claimed in claim 7, wherein said first features and second features relate to one or more of shapes, polynomial expressions, Zernike expressions, fingerprints or any combination thereof.
9. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, wherein the trained model comprises a trained neural network model.
10. A method as claimed in claim 10, comprising: obtaining training data comprising a first training set of pre-exposure metrology data, equivalent to said first set of pre-exposure metrology data, and obtaining a corresponding training set of post processing metrology data relating to said performance metric, wherein said first set of pre-exposure metrology data is labeled by the corresponding training set of post processing metrology data; processing the training data to remove control components which are at least partially correctable by a control process which is part of the lithographic process, to obtain processed pre-exposure metrology data; and training the model with the processed training data.
11. A method as claimed in any of claims 1 to 8, comprising the initial step of training the trained model, said training comprising: obtaining training data comprising a first training set of pre-exposure metrology data, equivalent to said first set of pre-exposure metrology data, and obtaining a corresponding training set of post processing metrology data relating to said performance metric; processing the training data to remove control components which are at least partially correctable by a control process which is part of the lithographic process, to obtain processed pre-exposure metrology data; and training the model with the processed training data by correlating the first training set of pre-exposure metrology data with the corresponding training set of post processing metrology data.
12. A method as claimed in claim 11, wherein the correlating step comprises using model mapping to correlate first features extracted from said training set of pre-exposure metrology data to corresponding second features in said training set of post processing metrology data.
13. A method as claimed in claim 12, wherein the training of the model comprises determining a mapping matrix representing correlation between the first features and the second features.
14. A method of obtaining a trained model for determining performance metric corrections relating to a performance metric of a lithographic process, the method comprising: obtaining training data comprising a first training set of pre-exposure metrology data comprising dense pre-exposure metrology data, and obtaining a corresponding training set of post processing metrology data relating to said performance metric; processing the training data to remove control components which are at least partially correctable by a control process which is part of the lithographic process, to obtain processed pre-exposure metrology data; and training the model with the processed training data.
15. A method as claimed in claim 14, wherein said training set of pre-exposure metrology data is of a similar type, but more densely measured, pre-exposure metrology data than that measured for said control process which is part of the lithographic process.
</claims>
</document>
