<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/40,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GUANGDONG OPPO MOBILE TELECOMMUNICATIONS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU, YIBAO
ZHOU, HAITAO
TANG, CHENG
ZHANG, XUEYONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60273429
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR IRIS LIVENESS DETECTION AND RELATED PRODUCT
</title>

<abstract>
A method for iris-based living body detection and related product are provided. The method includes the following. An iris image is obtained (101). The iris image is divided intoKregional images, whereKis an integer greater than one (102). Living body detection is performed on theKregional images withPiris-based living body detection schemes to obtainKdetection results, wherePis an integer greater than one and less than or equal toK(103). Whether the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body is determined according to theKdetection results (104). According to the method, the iris image is divided into multiple regions, one iris-based living body detection scheme is selected for each region to perform the living body detection, then multiple detection results are obtained, and whether the iris image is obtained from an iris of living body is determined according to the multiple detection results. It is possible to reduce an error detection rate caused by using a single iris-based living body detection scheme, and improve accuracy of the iris-based living body detection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for iris-based living body detection, comprising: obtaining an iris image; dividing the iris image into K regional images, wherein K is an integer greater than one; performing living body detection on the K regional images with P iris-based living body detection schemes to obtain K detection results, wherein P is an integer greater than one and less than or equal to K; and determining, according to the K detection results, whether the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the living body detection on the K regional images with the P iris-based living body detection schemes to obtain the K detection results comprises: determining a regional characteristic of each of the K regional images to obtain K regional characteristics; determining, according to a mapping relationship between preset regional characteristics and iris-based living body detection schemes, the P iris-based living body detection schemes corresponding to the K regional characteristics; and performing, according to the P iris-based living body detection schemes, the living body detection on the K regional images to obtain the K detection results.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the regional characteristic is at least one of: a number of feature points, an image quality evaluation value, definition, entropy, and average brightness.
4. The method of any of claims 1 to 3, wherein determining, according to the K detection results, whether the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body comprises: determining a reliability level corresponding to each of the P iris-based living body detection schemes to obtain P reliability levels; weighting the K detection results and the P reliability levels to obtain a target detection result; and determining that the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body when the target detection result is greater than a preset threshold.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4, wherein obtaining the iris image comprises: obtaining a test image; and extracting the iris image from the test image.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein extracting the iris image from the test image comprises: performing eye recognition on the test image to obtain an eye image; performing contour extraction on the eye image to obtain a contour image; determining, according to an eye structure, an iris contour from the contour image; and extracting, according to the iris contour, the iris image from the eye image.
7. The method of any of claims 1 to 6, wherein
the method further comprises:
performing image enhancement on the iris image; and dividing the iris image into the K regional images comprises:
dividing the iris image subjected to the image enhancement into the K regional images.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: performing image quality evaluation on the iris image to obtain an image quality evaluation value; and proceeding to performing the image enhancement on the iris image when the image quality evaluation value is lower than a preset quality threshold.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the image quality evaluation on the iris image to obtain the image quality evaluation value comprises:
performing the image quality evaluation on the iris image with at least one image quality evaluation indicator to obtain the image quality evaluation value.
10. A device for iris-based living body detection, comprising: an obtaining unit configured to obtain an iris image; a dividing unit configured to divide the iris image into K regional images, wherein K is an integer greater than one; a detecting unit configured to perform living body detection on the K regional images with P iris-based living body detection schemes, to obtain K detection results, wherein P is an integer greater than one and less than or equal to K; and a determining unit configured to determine, according to the K detection results, whether the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the detecting unit comprises: a first determining module configured to: determine a regional characteristic of each of the K regional images to obtain K regional characteristics; and determine, according to a mapping relationship between preset regional characteristics and iris-based living body detection schemes, the P iris-based living body detection schemes corresponding to the K regional characteristics; and a detecting module configured to perform, according to the P iris-based living body detection schemes, the living body detection on the K regional images to obtain the K detection results.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the regional characteristic is at least one of: a number of feature points, an image quality evaluation value, definition, entropy, and average brightness.
13. The device of any of claims 10 to 12, wherein the determining unit comprises: a first obtaining module configured to obtain a reliability level corresponding to each of the P iris-based living body detection schemes to obtain P reliability levels; a computing module configured to weight the K detection results and the P reliability levels to obtain a target detection result; and a second determining module configured to determine that the iris image is obtained from an iris of a living body when the target detection result is greater than a preset threshold.
14. The device of any of claims 10 to 13, wherein the obtaining unit comprises: a second obtaining module, configure to obtain a test image; and an extracting module, configure to extract the iris image from the test image.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the extracting module configured to extract the iris image from the test image is configured to: perform eye recognition on the test image to obtain an eye image; perform contour extraction on the eye image to obtain a contour image; determine, according to an eye structure, an iris contour from the contour image; and extract, according to the iris contour, the iris image from the eye image.
16. The device of any of claims 10 to 15, wherein
the device further comprises a processing unit configured to perform image enhancement on the iris image; and
the dividing unit is configured to divide the iris image subjected to the image enhancement into the K regional images.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein
the device further comprises an evaluating unit configured to perform image quality evaluation on the iris image to obtain an image quality evaluation value; and
the processing unit is configured to proceed to perform the image enhancement on the iris image when the image quality evaluation value is lower than a preset quality threshold.
18. An electronic device comprising an application processor (AP) and a memory configured to store one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are configured to be executed by the AP and comprise instructions configured to perform the method of any of claims 1-9.
19. A computer readable storage medium configured to store computer programs for electronic data interchange, the computer programs being operable with a computer to perform the method of any of claims 1-9.
20. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium configured to store computer programs, the computer programs being operable with a computer to perform the method of any of claims 1-9.
</claims>
</document>
