<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOMI HIDEHO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65272182
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SENDING TERMINAL, SENDING METHOD, INFORMATION PROCESSING TERMINAL, AND INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
The present technology relates to a transmitting terminal, a transmitting method, an information processing terminal, and an information processing method that make it possible to efficiently perform transmission of multiple pieces of data.A transmitting terminal according to an aspect of the present technology generates and transmits a packet having a format that allows multiple pieces of transmission data to be stored together with identification information of a network model in a payload. The multiple pieces of transmission data are used in at least one of learning processing of the network model by machine learning or inference processing based on the network model. The present technology is able to be applied to a transmission system that transmits data used in learning processing of a network model by machine learning and inference processing based on the network model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A transmitting terminal comprising: a generator that generates a packet having a format that allows multiple pieces of transmission data to be stored together with identification information of a network model in a payload, the transmission data being used in at least one of learning processing of the network model by machine learning or inference processing based on the network model; and a transmitter that transmits the packet.
2. The transmitting terminal according to claim 1, wherein the generator stores, with respect to each type of the transmission data, identification information of the transmission data and information indicating a data length in the payload.
3. The transmitting terminal according to claim 1, wherein the packet is an RTP packet.
4. The transmitting terminal according to claim 1, further comprising a receiver that receives a control packet transmitted from a receiving-side terminal that receives the transmission data, the control packet including a control command specifying a transmission rate for each type of the transmission data in a payload,
wherein the transmitter transmits each piece of the transmission data in accordance with the transmission rate specified in the control command.
5. A transmitting method implemented by a transmitting terminal, the transmitting method comprising: generating a packet having a format that allows multiple pieces of transmission data to be stored together with identification information of a network model in a payload, the transmission data being used in at least one of learning processing of the network model by machine learning or inference processing based on the network model; and transmitting the packet.
6. An information processing terminal comprising: a generator that generates a control packet storing a control command regarding transmission of transmission data used in inference processing based on a network model in a payload, the control command including identification information of the network model and identification information of the control command; and a transmitter that transmits the control packet.
7. The information processing terminal according to claim 6, wherein the control packet is an RTCP packet.
8. The information processing terminal according to claim 6, further comprising: a receiver that receives a packet storing the transmission data in a payload, the packet being transmitted from a transmitting-side terminal that transmits the transmission data; and an inference processing section that performs the inference processing using the transmission data as an input.
9. The information processing terminal according to claim 8, wherein the generator generates the control packet that stores the control command to switch the network model used in the inference processing.
10. The information processing terminal according to claim 8, wherein the generator generates the control packet that stores the control command specifying a transmission rate for each type of the transmission data.
11. The information processing terminal according to claim 10, wherein the generator generates the control command that includes, with respect to each type of the transmission data, identification information of the transmission data, information indicating a unit of the transmission rate, and a value of the transmission rate.
12. The information processing terminal according to claim 10, further comprising a controller that saves specific transmission data that becomes unable to be used in the inference processing by adjustment of the transmission rate being performed by the transmitting-side terminal, wherein the inference processing section performs the inference processing using, as inputs, the transmission data transmitted after the adjustment of the transmission rate has been performed and the saved specific transmission data.
13. The information processing terminal according to claim 8, wherein the generator generates the packet that stores the control command requesting adjustment of the transmission rate in accordance with a change amount of the transmission data.
14. The information processing terminal according to claim 13, further comprising a controller that saves the transmission data to be an input of the inference processing,
wherein the inference processing section performs the inference processing using, as inputs, the transmission data transmitted after the adjustment of the transmission rate has been performed by the transmitting-side terminal and the saved transmission data.
15. An information processing method implemented by an information processing terminal, the information processing method comprising: generating a control packet storing a control command regarding transmission of transmission data used in inference processing based on a network model in a payload, the control command including identification information of the network model and identification information of the control command; and transmitting the control packet.
16. An information processing terminal comprising: a receiver that receives a control packet storing a control command regarding transmission of transmission data used in inference processing based on a network model in a payload, the control command including identification information of the network model and identification information of the control command; and a transmitter that transmits the transmission data in accordance with the control command.
17. The information processing terminal according to claim 16, wherein
in a case where the control command is a command to switch the network model used in the inference processing, the transmitter transmits a type of the transmission data used as an input of the switched network model indicated by the identification information of the network model included in the control command.
18. The information processing terminal according to claim 16, wherein
in a case where the control command is a command specifying a transmission rate for each type of the transmission data, the transmitter transmits each type of the transmission data in accordance with the transmission rate specified by information included in the control command.
19. The information processing terminal according to claim 16, wherein
in a case where the control command is a command requesting adjustment of a transmission rate in accordance with a change amount of the transmission data, the transmitter transmits a type of the transmission data having a change amount exceeding a threshold.
20. An information processing method implemented by an information processing terminal, the information processing method comprising: receiving a control packet storing a control command regarding transmission of transmission data used in inference processing based on a network model in a payload, the control command including identification information of the network model and identification information of the control command; and transmitting the transmission data in accordance with the control command.
</claims>
</document>
