<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ISHII, YASUNORI
URABE, HIROAKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67658971
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD AND INFORMATION PROCESSING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing method includes: obtaining sensing data (S10); determining a synthesis region in the sensing data in which recognition target data is to be synthesized with the sensing data (S20); generating composite data by synthesizing the recognition target data into the synthesis region, the recognition target data having same or similar characteristics perceived by a human sensory system as the sensing data (S30); obtaining recognition result data by providing the composite data to a model trained using machine learning to recognize a recognition target (S40); making a second determination, which is to determine whether to make a first determination which is to determine training data for the model based on the composite data, based on the recognition result data and reference data including at least the synthesis region (S50); and making the first determination when it is determined in the second determination to make the first determination (S60).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing method, comprising the following performed using a computer: obtaining sensing data; determining a synthesis region in the sensing data in which recognition target data is to be synthesized with the sensing data; generating composite data by synthesizing the recognition target data into the synthesis region, the recognition target data having same or similar perceived characteristics perceived by a human sensory system as the sensing data; obtaining recognition result data by providing the composite data to a model which has been trained using machine learning to recognize a recognition target; making a second determination based on the recognition result data and reference data including at least the synthesis region, the second determination being to determine whether to make a first determination, the first determination being to determine training data for the model based on the composite data; and making the first determination when it is determined in the second determination to make the first determination.
2. The information processing method according to claim 1, wherein
the perceived characteristics of the sensing data are statistical characteristics of an element of the sensing data.
3. The information processing method according to claim 1, wherein
the perceived characteristics of the sensing data are qualitative characteristics of the sensing data.
4. The information processing method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
in the first determination, the composite data is determined as the training data for the model.
5. The information processing method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein
in the first determination, corresponding data having same or similar perceived characteristics as the composite data is determined as the training data for the model.
6. The information processing method according to claim 5, wherein
the perceived characteristics of the composite data are statistical characteristics of an element of the composite data.
7. The information processing method according to claim 5, wherein
the perceived characteristics of the composite data are qualitative characteristics of the composite data.
8. The information processing method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein
the sensing data is an image,
the recognition target is an object,
the synthesis region is an object synthesis position in the image in which object data is synthesized with the image,
the composite data is a composite image generated by synthesizing the object data into the object synthesis position, the object data having same or similar visual characteristics as the image,
the recognition result data is object recognition result data obtained by providing the composite image to the model,
the first determination is to determine the training data for the model based on the composite image, and
the second determination is made based on the object recognition result data and reference data including at least the object synthesis position.
9. The information processing method according to claim 8, wherein
the first determination is to determine, as the training data for the model, a corresponding image having same or similar visual characteristics as the composite image,
the visual characteristics of the composite image are an aspect of the object in the composite image, and
the visual characteristics of the corresponding image are an aspect of a corresponding object having same or similar attributes as the object.
10. The information processing method according to claim 9, wherein
the aspect is a position of the object in the composite image.
11. The information processing method according to claim 9, wherein
the aspect is a posture of the object.
12. The information processing method according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein
the synthesis region further includes a size of the object data synthesized with the image.
13. The information processing method according to any one of claims 5 to 7, wherein
data having same or similar perceived characteristics as the composite data is selected or generated as the corresponding data from sensing data different from the composite data.
14. The information processing method according to any one of claims 1 to 13, wherein
a generative adversarial network (GAN) model is used to synthesize the recognition target data into the synthesis region.
15. The information processing method according to any one of claims 1 to 14, further comprising:
providing a notice to a user of the model when it is determined in the second determination to make the first determination.
16. The information processing method according to claim 15, further comprising: training the model using the training data determined, wherein the notice is related to completion of the training.
17. The information processing method according to claim 15, wherein
the notice is related to a request to train the model using the training data determined.
18. An information processing system, comprising: a first obtainer that obtains sensing data; a first determiner that determines a synthesis region in the sensing data in which recognition target data is synthesized with the sensing data; a generator that generates composite data by synthesizing the recognition target data into the synthesis region, the recognition target data having same or similar perceived characteristics perceived by a human sensory system as the sensing data; a second obtainer that obtains recognition result data by providing the composite data to a model which has been trained using machine learning to recognize a recognition target; and a second determiner that (i) makes a second determination based on the recognition result data and reference data including at least the synthesis region, the second determination being to determine whether to make a first determination, the first determination being to determine training data for the model based on the composite data, and (ii) makes the first determination when it is determined in the second determination to make the first determination.
</claims>
</document>
