<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/022,A61B5/026,A61B5/0295
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOI, CHANG MOK
CHOI, JIN WOO
KANG, JAE MIN
KIM, YOUN HO
PARK, SANG YUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68581212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLOOD PRESSURE MEASUREMENT
</title>

<abstract>
A blood pressure measuring apparatus includes a pulse wave sensor configured to detect a pulse wave signal of an object, a pressure sensor configured to detect a contact pressure signal corresponding to a contact pressure between the object and the pulse wave sensor, and a processor configured to generate a pulse wave image based on the detected pulse wave signal of the object, generate a contact pressure image based on the detected contact pressure signal corresponding to the contact pressure between the object and the pressure sensor, and estimate a blood pressure of the object based on the generated pulse wave image, the generated contact pressure image, and a blood pressure estimation model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A blood pressure measuring apparatus comprising: a pulse wave sensor configured to detect a pulse wave signal of an object; a pressure sensor configured to detect a contact pressure signal corresponding to a contact pressure between the object and the pulse wave sensor; and a processor configured to: generate a pulse wave image based on the detected pulse wave signal of the object; generate a contact pressure image based on the detected contact pressure signal corresponding to the contact pressure between the object and the pressure sensor; and estimate a blood pressure of the object based on the generated pulse wave image, the generated contact pressure image, and a blood pressure estimation model.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the pulse wave signal is a photoplethysmogram signal.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the pulse wave sensor is further configured to:
detect a plurality of pulse wave signals of different wavelengths.
4. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the pressure sensor is further configured to: detect a contact force signal and a contact area signal corresponding to a contract force and a contract area, respectively, between the object and the pulse wave sensor; and obtain the contact pressure signal based on the contact force signal and the contact area signal.
5. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate the pulse wave image by converting the pulse wave signal into an image using at least one of Wavelet Transform, Short Time Fourier transform, and Wigner-Ville distribution, or generate the contact pressure image by converting the detected contact pressure signal into a gradient image, or generate the pulse wave image and the contact pressure image to have a same time domain scale.
6. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the blood pressure estimation model is a model based on a convolutional neural network.
7. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 6, wherein: the blood pressure estimation model is generated by machine learning based on training data; and the training data comprises pulse wave image data, contact pressure image data, and blood pressure data.
8. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 7, further comprising:
a contact image sensor configured to obtain a plurality of contact images of the object for a time frame.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: convert the obtained plurality of contact images for the time frame into a single contact image which represents a change in a contact image over the time frame; and estimate the blood pressure of the object based on the single contact image.
10. The apparatus of one of claims 1 to 9, wherein the processor is further configured to perform nth-order differentiation on the detected pulse wave signal to obtain an nth-order differentiated pulse wave signal; convert the obtained nth-order differentiated pulse wave signal into an image to generate an nth-order differentiated pulse wave image; and estimate the blood pressure of the object based on the generated nth-order differentiated pulse wave image, wherein n is a natural number, or
wherein the processor is further configured to generate guide information that instructs a user to increase or decrease the contact pressure between the object and the pressure sensor based on the detected contact pressure signal; and provide, via an output device, the generated guide information to the user.
11. A computer-readable medium having instructions that, when performed by a processor of a blood pressure measuring apparatus having a pulse wave sensor configured to detect a pulse wave signal of an object, a force sensor configured to detect a contact force signal corresponding to a contact force between the object and the pulse wave sensor, and an area sensor configured to detect a contact area signal corresponding to a contact area between the object and the pulse wave sensor, cause the processor to: generate a pulse wave image based on the detected pulse wave signal of the object; generate a contact force image based on the detected contact force signal corresponding to the contact force between the object and the pulse wave sensor; generate a contact area image based on the detected contact area signal corresponding to the contact area between the object and the pulse wave sensor; and estimate a blood pressure of the object based on the generated pulse wave image, the generated contact force image, the generated contact area image, and a blood pressure estimation model.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the pulse wave image by converting the pulse wave signal into an image using at least one of Wavelet Transform, Short Time Fourier transform, and Wigner-Ville distribution, or wherein the processor is further configured to generate the contact force image by converting the detected contact force signal into a gradient image; and generate the contact area image by converting the detected contact area signal into a gradient image.
13. A blood pressure measuring method comprising: based on a cuff being placed on an object, detecting a cuff pressure signal; extracting an alternating current, AC, component signal and a direct current, DC, component signal based on the cuff pressure signal; generating an AC component image based on the extracted AC component signal; generating a DC component image based on the extracted DC component signal; and estimating a blood pressure of the object based on the generated AC component image, the generated DC component image, and a blood pressure estimation model.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the generating of the AC component image further comprises generating the AC component image by converting the AC component signal into an image using at least one of Wavelet Transform, Short Time Fourier transform, and Wigner-Ville distribution, and/or
wherein the generating of the DC component image further comprises generating the DC component image by converting the DC component signal into a gradient image.
15. The method of claim 13 or 14, wherein the blood pressure estimation model is a model based on a convolutional neural network, or
wherein the blood pressure estimation model is generated by machine learning based on training data; and the training data comprises AC component image data, DC component image data, and blood pressure data.
</claims>
</document>
