<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/88
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEN, YAWEI
LENG, JIABING
LIU, MINGHAO
XIAO, HUIHUI
LI, XU
GUO, JIANGLIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65068351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BATTERY DETECTION METHOD AND DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a battery detection method and a battery detection device. The method includes: obtaining a picture of each battery on a battery production line, and obtaining a corresponding production node; inputting the picture into a preset defect detection model, and obtaining a detection result output by the defect detection model, and when the detection result denotes that there is the defect on the picture, sending a control instruction to a control device of the production node corresponding to the picture, to cause the control device to shunt the battery corresponding to the picture having the defect based on the control instruction. The detection result includes whether there is a defect, a defect type, and a defect position.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A battery detection method, comprising: obtaining a picture of each battery on a battery production line, and obtaining a corresponding production node; inputting the picture into a preset defect detection model, and obtaining a detection result output by the defect detection model, the detection result comprising: whether there is a defect, a defect type, and a defect position; when the detection result denotes that there is the defect on the picture, sending a control instruction to a control device of the production node corresponding to the picture, to cause the control device to shunt the battery corresponding to the picture having the defect based on the control instruction.
2. The battery detection method of claim 1, wherein,
the preset defect detection model is a deep neural network model; and
a structure of the preset defect detection model is determined according to a mask Region Convolutional Neural Network RCNN algorithm.
3. The battery detection method of claim 1 or 2, wherein before inputting the picture into the preset defect detection model and obtaining the detection result output by the defect detection model, the battery detection method further comprises: obtaining training data, the training data comprising historical pictures of batteries on the production line and defect annotation results, and the defect annotation results comprising the defect types and the defect positions; training an initial defect detection model according to the training data, until a preset loss function satisfies a corresponding condition; and determining the defect detection model trained as the preset defect detection model.
4. The battery detection method of claim 3, wherein after inputting the picture into the preset defect detection model and obtaining the detection result output by the defect detection model, the battery detection method further comprises: reviewing the detection result corresponding to the picture; adding the picture and the detection result to the training data to obtain updated training data, after the detection result passes the review; and retraining the defect detection model according to the updated training data.
5. The battery detection method of claim 4, wherein before retraining the defect detection model according to the updated training data, the battery detection method further comprises: obtaining a number of pictures and corresponding detection results added into the updated training data; retraining the defect detection model according to the updated training data comprises:
retraining the defect detection model according to the updated training data when the number is greater than a preset number threshold.
6. The battery detection method of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein there are a plurality of defect detection models, and the plurality of defect detection models are respectively set on different servers,
inputting the picture into the preset defect detection model and obtaining the detection result output by the defect detection model comprises: obtaining a load of each of the plurality of defect detection models; selecting, from the plurality of defect detection models, a first defect detection model whose load satisfies a preset load condition; and inputting the picture into the first defect detection model to obtain the detection result output by the first defect detection model.
7. A battery detection device, comprising: an obtaining module, configured to obtain a picture of each battery on a battery production line, and obtain a corresponding production node; a detecting module, configured to input the picture into a preset defect detection model, and obtain a detection result output by the defect detection model, the detection result comprising: whether there is a defect, a defect type, and a defect position; a sending module, configured to, when the detection result denotes that there is the defect on the picture, send a control instruction to a control device of the production node corresponding to the picture, to cause the control device to shunt the battery corresponding to the picture having the defect based on the control instruction.
8. The battery detection device of claim 7, wherein,
the preset defect detection model is a deep neural network model; and
a structure of the preset defect detection model is determined according to a mask RCNN algorithm.
9. The battery detection device of claim 7 or 8, wherein the battery detection device further comprises a training module, and a determining module,
the obtaining module is further configured to obtain training data, the training data comprising historical pictures of batteries on the production line and defect annotation results, and the defect annotation results comprising the defect types and the defect positions;
the training module is configured to train an initial defect detection model according to the training data, until a preset loss function satisfies a corresponding condition; and
the determining module is configured to determine the defect detection model trained as the preset defect detection model.
10. The battery detection device of claim 9, further comprising: a review module, configured to review the detection result corresponding to the picture; and an adding module, configured to add the picture and the detection result to the training data to obtain updated training data, after the detection result passes the review; wherein the training module is further configured to retrain the defect detection model according to the updated training data.
11. The battery detection device of claim 10, wherein,
the obtaining module is configured to obtain a number of pictures and corresponding detection results added into the updated training data;
the training module is further configured to retrain the defect detection model according to the updated training data when the number is greater than a preset number threshold.
12. The battery detection device of any one of claims 7 to 11, wherein there are a plurality of defect detection models, and the plurality of defect detection models are respectively set on different servers,
the detecting module is further configured to: obtain a load of each of the plurality of defect detection models; select, from the plurality of defect detection models, a first defect detection model whose load satisfies a preset load condition; and input the picture into the first defect detection model to obtain the detection result output by the first defect detection model.
13. A battery detection apparatus, comprising: a memory; a processor; and a computer program stored on the memory and executable by the processor, wherein when the computer program is executed by the processor, causes the processor to implement the battery detection method according to any one of claims 1-6.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon a computer program that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to implement the battery detection method according to any one of claims 1-6.
15. A computer program product having stored thereon an instruction that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to implement the battery detection method according to any one of claims 1-6.
</claims>
</document>
