<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOCHER, THOMAS
ZAHRAI, SAID
GAO, WENZHI
SEN, NEVROZ
MAHYARI, ARASH
DAI, DAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67734590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD TO MONITOR ROBOT MECHANICAL CONDITION
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanical condition monitoring of robots can be used to detect unexpected failure of robots. Data taken from a robot operation is processed and compared against a health baseline. Features extracted during the monitoring stage of robot operation are aligned with features extracted during the training stage in which the health baseline is established by projecting both onto a common subspace. A classifier which can include a distance assessment such as an L2-norm is used within the common subspace to assess the condition of the robot. Excursions of the distance assessment from a criteria indicate a failure or potential failure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a robot having a component structured to be subject to relative mechanical movement during operation of the robot; a sensor coupled with the robot configured to detect an operating condition of the component; a diagnostic device configured to receive a measurement from the sensor and including a memory having a training data, the diagnostic device configured to distinguish between a change in health of the robot and change in operation of the robot and having computer based instructions structured to: compute a principal component analysis of the measurement from the sensor to provide an operation data; determine a common subspace between the training data and the operation data; and utilize a classifier trained on the training data and applied on the operation data in the common subspace.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the diagnostic device includes a computer processing device and a computer memory, wherein the memory includes the computer based instructions that when executed by the computer processing device is operative to provide an output signal indicative of the distance between the training data and the operation data in the common subspace, the output signal having greater sensitivity to changes in health of the robot and lesser sensitivity to changes in operation of the robot.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the diagnostic device is further structured to determine the common subspace via unsupervised domain adaptation.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the unsupervised domain adaptation is performed using manifold alignment.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the manifold alignment is performed using low rank alignment.
6. The apparatus of any of the preceding claims, wherein a measurement of the sensor is correlated with the relative mechanical movement of the robot during an operational movement of the robot, and wherein the diagnostic device is in information communication with a transceiver configured to receive the measurement from the sensor; or
wherein the distance is computed using an L2-norm measure, and wherein a degraded health condition of the robot can be determined by a comparison of the L2-norm computed distances to a criteria.
7. An apparatus comprising:
a robotic diagnostic device which includes at least one input and one output and configured to assist in the determination of a health of a robot having moving mechanical components by distinguishing changes in operation of the robot from a change in health of the robot, the robotic diagnostic device structured to align data features of a training data and data features of an operation data in a common subspace, and utilize a classifier within the common subspace trained on the training data and applied to the operation data, wherein the operation data includes features related to a mechanical movement of the robot which is targeted for health evaluation and the training data includes features related to a reference mechanical movement that the operation data is to be compared against.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the robotic diagnostic device includes a computer processing device and a computer memory, wherein the memory includes instructions that when executed by the computer processing device is operative to provide an output signal indicative of the change in health of the robot, and wherein the robotic diagnostic device is structured to compute the distance such that the distance is responsive to changes in health of the robot and insensitive to changes in operation of the robot.
9. The apparatus of claims 7 or 8, wherein the classifier is a support vector machine.
10. The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 9, wherein the robotic diagnostic device is structured to align features of a training data and features of an operation data in a common subspace using domain adaptation.
11. The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 9, wherein the robotic diagnostic device is structured to use unsupervised transfer learning; and
wherein the distance within the common subspace between the training data and the operation data is computed using an L2-norm.
12. The apparatus of any of claims 7 to 11, which further includes a robot coupled with the robotic diagnostic device, the robot having a moveable component and a sensor structured to take data which is correlated with a movement of the moveable component, and wherein the robotic diagnostic device is configured to set an indication when the distance exceeds a health criteria.
13. A method comprising: effecting relative movement of a first robotic moveable member relative to a second robotic moveable member; collecting data related to the relative movement; extracting a movement feature of the data so that the movement feature can be compared to a training feature; projecting at least one of the movement feature and the training feature onto a common subspace which includes both the movement feature and the training feature to form an evaluation movement feature and an evaluation training feature; and utilizing a classifier trained on the projected training feature and applied to the projected movement feature.
14. The method of claim 13, which further includes comparing a distance to a health criteria and setting an indication if the distance exceeds the health criteria.
15. The method of claims 13 or 14, wherein the determining includes computing an L2-norm between the evaluation movement feature and the evaluation training feature.
16. The method of any of claims 13 to 15, wherein utilizing a classifier includes using a support vector machine; or
wherein the projecting includes an unsupervised alignment of the movement feature and the training feature.
</claims>
</document>
