<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAHEY, PATRICK C.
BOWE, MARK A.
GILLEY, SHELDON D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68424776
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AIRCRAFT MODIFICATION MARKETPLACE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for managing aircraft modifications. A link to a customer information database is established in response to receiving a launch input for a modification marketplace entered by a user via a graphical user interface. The customer information database includes identification information and customer information associated with the user. A determination is made as to whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace using the identification information. A link to an engineering database containing aircraft product information is established in response to a determination that the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace. A selected level of access to the aircraft product information in the engineering database is provided, via the graphical user interface, based on the customer information associated with the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing aircraft modification, the method comprising: establishing a link to a customer information database in response to receiving a launch input for a modification marketplace entered by a user via a graphical user interface, wherein the customer information database includes identification information and customer information associated with the user; determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace using the identification information associated with the user; establishing a link to an engineering database containing aircraft product information in response to a determination that the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace; and providing, via the graphical user interface, a selected level of access to the aircraft product information in the engineering database based on the customer information associated with the user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, via the graphical user interface, user input selecting a set of aircraft; and customizing an experience of the user within the modification marketplace based on the set of aircraft selected.
3. The method of any of claims 1 or 2, wherein providing, via the graphical user interface, the selected level of access to the aircraft product information comprises: retrieving the customer information from the customer information database, wherein the customer information includes at least one of a customer type or an owner status associated with the user; and limiting access of the user to the selected level of access based on the at least one of the customer type or the owner status associated with the user such that the user is allowed to only access a portion of the aircraft product information in the engineering database.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein providing, via the graphical user interface, the selected level of access to the aircraft product information further comprises:
identifying a fleet associated with the user based on the customer information associated with the user, wherein the selected level of access allows access to only a portion of the aircraft product information that is relevant to the fleet.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the owner status indicates whether the user is associated with a customer that owns the fleet, wherein a number of cart options available to the user is limited based on whether the customer owns the fleet, and wherein the cart options include a purchase option, a firm proposal option, and a rough order of magnitude option.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, further comprising: identifying a plurality of aircraft relevant to the user based on the customer information; and displaying an effectivity selector in the graphical user interface that allows the user to select a set of aircraft to be modified from the plurality of aircraft, wherein the effectivity selector provides access to effectivity information for each aircraft in the plurality of aircraft.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace comprises: establishing a link to a licensing database in response to receiving the launch input; and determining, based on the identification information associated with the user and licensing information in the licensing database associated with the user, whether the user is associated with a customer having a valid license with an entity hosting the modification marketplace; denying access to the modification marketplace in response to a determination that the customer does not have the valid license.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace further comprises: establishing a link to an accounts receivable system in response to a determination that the user is associated with the customer having the valid license with the entity; and determining, based on credit information in the accounts receivable system associated with the customer, whether a credit worthiness of the customer meets threshold criteria.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace further comprises:
denying access to the modification marketplace if the credit worthiness does not meet the threshold criteria.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace further comprises: determining whether the credit worthiness associated with the customer indicates that an up-front payment is required when a purchase is made via the modification marketplace, in response to a determination that the credit worthiness of the customer meets the threshold criteria; and computing up-front payment information for use in forming a final purchase contract for the user in response to a determination that the credit worthiness indicates that the up-front payment is required.
11. The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein determining whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace comprises: determining the selected level of access to be provided to the user using at least one of a purchase authorization filter, a product access filter, or a business scenario filter, wherein the purchase authorization filter limits features available to the user based on an owner status of a customer with which the user is associated; wherein the product access filter limits features available to the user based on a customer type of the customer; and wherein the business scenario filter is used to determine what types of business scenarios are applicable to the customer.
12. The method of any of claims 1-11, further comprising:
customizing an experience of the user within the modification marketplace based on a set of aircraft selected by the user;
wherein customizing the experience of the user comprises: receiving a feature selection via the graphical user interface; retrieving corresponding information from at least one of a customer information database, an engineering database, an aircraft tracking configuration database, a contract database, or a project management database in response to receiving the feature selection; and
determining whether the feature selection includes a feature already installed on at least one of the set of aircraft selected based on the corresponding information retrieved.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein customizing the experience of the user further comprises: alerting the user, via the graphical user interface, that the feature was previously installed on the at least one of the set of aircraft; and/or receiving a feature selection via the graphical user interface, and generating, automatically, pricing information for the feature selection based on a number of aircraft included in the set of aircraft selected.
14. A system for managing modifications to aircraft, the system comprising: a graphical user interface for display on a display system; and a modification marketplace presented to a user via the graphical user interface, wherein the modification marketplace operable to perform the steps of any of claims 1-13, and comprises: an access manager that establishes a link to a customer information database in response to receiving a launch input for a modification marketplace entered by the user via a graphical user interface, wherein the customer information database includes identification information and customer information associated with the user; determines whether the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace using the identification information associated with the user; establishes a link to at least one of a plurality of data systems containing aircraft product information in response to a determination that the user is authorized to access the modification marketplace; and provides, via the graphical user interface, a selected level of access to the aircraft product information based on the customer information associated with the user; and a retrofit manager that receives, via the graphical user interface, user input selecting a set of aircraft and customizes an experience of the user within the modification marketplace based on the set of aircraft selected.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the modification marketplace further comprises: a layout tool that presents at least one of an interactive interior layout or an interactive flight deck layout that allows the user to make feature selections for at least one of an interior of an aircraft or a flight deck of the aircraft, respectively; and/or a weight change manager that enables the user to make feature selections based on a desired weight change for an aircraft, wherein the weight change manager uses weight requirement information and operational weight information obtained from a weight data system to determine whether the desired weight change meets requirements.
</claims>
</document>
