<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KOREA ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGY INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHO, SANG YEON
KIM, YOUNG KEE
KUM, SEUNG WOO
MOON, JAE WON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64270624
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR DISTRIBUTED OPERATION BETWEEN CLOUD AND EDGE IN IOT COMPUTING ENVIRONMENT
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are a method and system for distributed operation between a cloud and an edge in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment including the edge and the cloud, the edge being connected to things to collect data from the things and transmit a control signal to the things, and the cloud being configured to receive data from the edge, process the data, and transmit a result of the processing to the edge. Traffic and load of the cloud for data processing are adaptively allotted to the edge depending on the situation such that the data is processed through cooperation between the edge and the cloud, and optimum processing results are provided. The distributed operation of the edge and cloud is performed so as to shorten the response time, to make the best of processing power, to be network-independent, and to protect data as much as possible.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for distributed operation between a cloud and an edge in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment including the edge and the cloud, the edge being connected to things to collect data from the things and transmit a control signal to the things, and the cloud being configured to receive data from the edge, process the data, and transmit a result of the processing to the edge, the method comprising: creating, by the cloud, a model for the collected data; preparing an allotting rule for the created model for distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; allotting the model created by the cloud from the cloud to the edge according to the model allotting rule; and processing, by the cloud and the edge, the data collected from things using the created model and the distributed model, respectively.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the allotting of the model from the cloud to the edge comprises: determining, by the cloud, an edge based on the model allotting rule to allot the model.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the allotting of the model from the cloud to the edge comprises: selecting, by the edge, the model created by the cloud according to the model allotting rule and receiving the selected model allotted from the cloud.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the processing, by the cloud and the edge, of the data collected from the things using the created model and the allotted model comprises: separating, by the edge, the data collected from the things; transmitting a first part of the separated data to the cloud and transmitting, to the cloud, a result obtained by primarily processing a second part of the separated data; and performing, by the cloud, a main operation on the first part of the data received from the edge and on the result obtained by primarily processing the second part of the data at the edge.
5. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising: allotting, from the cloud to the edge, a processing task for the data collected from the things for a task distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; and operating, by the cloud and the edge, the task for the data collected from the things using the created model and the allotted model, respectively.
6. A system for distributed operation between a cloud and an edge in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment including the edge and the cloud, the edge being connected to things to collect data from the things and transmit a control signal to the things, and the cloud being configured to receive data from the edge, process the data, and transmit a result of the processing to the edge,
wherein the cloud comprises: a model creation unit configured to create models to process the collected data; a model allotting rule for distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; and a model allotting unit configured to allot a model to the edge according to the model allotting rule.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the edge comprises: a model allotting rule forming a basis for selecting a model to be used at the edge among the models created by the cloud; and a model selection unit configured to select a model to be used at the edge among the models created by the cloud.
8. A system for distributed operation between a cloud and an edge in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment including the edge and the cloud, the edge being connected to things to collect data from the things and transmit a control signal to the things, and the cloud being configured to receive data from the edge, process the data, and transmit a result of the processing to the edge,
wherein the cloud comprises: a model creation unit configured to create models to process the collected data; a model allotting rule for distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; and a model allotting unit configured to allot a model to the edge according to the model allotting rule, wherein the edge comprises: a data separation unit configured to separate the data collected from the things and transmit a first part of the separated data to the cloud; and an element configured to primarily process a second part of the separated data and transmit a result of the processing to the cloud, wherein the cloud further comprises a main operation unit configured to perform a main operation on the first part of the data transmitted from the edge and on the result obtained by primarily processing the second part of the data at the edge.
9. A system for distributed operation between a cloud and an edge in an Internet of Things (IoT) computing environment including the edge and the cloud, the edge being connected to things to collect data from the things and transmit a control signal to the things, and the cloud being configured to receive data from the edge, process the data, and transmit a result of the processing to the edge,
wherein the cloud comprises: a model creation unit configured to create models to process the collected data; a model allotting rule for distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; a model allotting unit configured to allot a model to the edge according to the model allotting rule; and a task allotting unit configured to allot, from the cloud to the edge, a processing task for the data collected from the things for a task distributed operation between the cloud and the edge; wherein the edge comprises a task operation unit configured to operate the task for the data collected from the things using the allotted model.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the cloud further comprises
a task allotting rule forming a basis for allotting a processing task for the data collected from the things to the edge for the task distributed operation with the edge.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the edge further comprises
a task allotting rule forming a basis for allotting, from the cloud to the edge, a processing task for the data collected from the things for the task distributed operation with the cloud.
</claims>
</document>
