<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAS, RAHUL
PADMANABHAN IYER, RITESH
PANDEY, ANSHUL
RAY, ANIRUDDHA
SHANDHIL, MANISH
SWAMY, JAYANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69187556
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DATA MIGRATION
</title>

<abstract>
Examples of a data migration system are provided. The system may receive a data migration requirement. The system may sort the data stored in the on-premise data warehouse into a plurality of data domains. The system may map the plurality of data domains to a usage parameter index and a storage parameter index to determine a data usage pattern and a data storage pattern. The system may evaluate the data storage pattern and the data usage pattern to determine a data assessment index. The system may determine a data migration index from mapping a plurality of cloud platforms to the data assessment index. The system may determine a data migration model compatible with the data assessment index. The system may generate a data migration output comprising the layout for transferring data stored in the on-premise data warehouse to a compatible cloud platform to resolve the data migration requirement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; a data assembler coupled to the processor, the data assembler to: receive a data migration requirement associated with data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; and sort the data stored in the on-premise data warehouse into a plurality of data domains, each of the plurality of data domains pertaining to an attribute associated with the data migration requirement; a data analyzer coupled to the processor, the data analyzer to: map the plurality of data domains to a usage parameter index to determine a data usage pattern comprising a plurality of data usage parameters associated the data migration requirement, the usage parameter index comprising a usage parameter set associated with the data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; and map the plurality of data domains to a storage parameter index to determine a data storage pattern comprising a plurality of data storage parameters associated the data migration requirement, the storage parameter index comprising a storage parameter set associated with the data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; a data migration predictor coupled to the processor, the data migration predictor to implement a first cognitive learning operation to: evaluate the data storage pattern and the data usage pattern to determine a data assessment index comprising an assessment parameter set associated with the data migration requirement; and determine a data migration index based on mapping a plurality of cloud platforms to the data assessment index, the data migration index comprising each of the plurality of cloud platforms mapped to the data assessment index; and a modeler coupled to the processor, the modeler to: implement a second cognitive learning operation to determine a data migration model compatible with the data assessment index, based on the data migration index, the data migration model comprising a layout for transferring data stored in the on-premise data warehouse to a cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms; and generate a data migration output comprising the layout for transferring data stored in the on-premise data warehouse to a compatible cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms to resolve the data migration requirement.
2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data migration predictor implements the first cognitive learning operation to determine the data assessment index including a data migration strategy, a cloud platform, a technical platform, a data warehouse type, and a data lake structure associated with the data migration requirement.
3. The system as claimed in claim 1 or 2, wherein the data analyzer: generates the data usage pattern and the data storage pattern as an electronic document to a user; and receives a user input to the electronic document for determining the data assessment index.
4. The system as claimed in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the data analyzer generates a usage questionnaire based on the usage parameter set and a storage questionnaire based on the storage parameter set to map the plurality of data domains to the data usage index and the data storage index, respectively, and wherein, optionally, the data analyzer creates a questionnaire library for recording the usage questionnaire and the storage questionnaire, the questionnaire library being deployed to update the usage parameter index, and the storage parameter index.
5. The system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the data analyzer assigns a confidence value to each of the plurality of data domains based on the data migration requirement to determine an order of mapping the plurality of data domains with the usage parameter index and the storage parameter index, respectively.
6. The system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the modeler: generates the data migration index as an interactive electronic document to receive a migration input from a user; and implements the second cognitive learning operation on the migration input to determine the data migration model compatible with the data assessment index.
7. The system as claimed in any of the preceding claims, wherein the modeler initiates data migration from the on-premise data warehouse to the compatible cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms to resolve the data migration requirement based on the data migration output.
8. A method comprising: receiving, by a processor, a data migration requirement associated with data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; sorting, by the processor, the data stored in the on-premise data warehouse into a plurality of data domains, each of the plurality of data domains pertaining to an attribute associated with the data migration requirement; mapping, by the processor, the plurality of data domains to a usage parameter index to determine a data usage pattern comprising a plurality of data usage parameters associated the data migration requirement, the usage parameter index comprising a usage parameter set associated with the data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; mapping, by the processor, the plurality of data domains to a storage parameter index to determine a data storage pattern comprising a plurality of data storage parameters associated the data migration requirement, the storage parameter index comprising a storage parameter set associated with the data stored in an on-premise data warehouse; evaluating, by the processor, the data storage pattern and the data usage pattern to determine a data assessment index comprising an assessment parameter set associated with the data migration requirement; determining, by the processor, a data migration index based on mapping a plurality of cloud platforms to the data assessment index, the data migration index comprising each of the plurality of cloud platforms mapped to the data assessment index; implementing, by the processor, a second cognitive learning operation to determine a data migration model compatible with the data assessment index, based on the data migration index, the data migration model comprising a layout for transferring data stored in the on-premise data warehouse to a cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms; and generating, by the processor, a data migration output comprising the layout for transferring data stored in the on-premise data warehouse to a compatible cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms to resolve the data migration requirement.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the method further comprises implementing, by the processor, the first cognitive learning operation to determine the data assessment index including a data migration strategy, a cloud platform, a technical platform, a data warehouse type, and a data lake structure associated with the data migration requirement.
10. The method as claimed in claim 8 or 9, wherein the method further comprises: generating, by the processor, the data usage pattern and the data storage pattern as an electronic document to a user; and receiving, by the processor, a user input to the electronic document for determining the data assessment index.
11. The method as claimed in claim 8, 9 or 10, wherein the method further comprises generating, by the processor, a usage questionnaire based on the usage parameter set and a storage questionnaire based on the storage parameter set to map the plurality of data domains to the data usage index and the data storage index, respectively, wherein, optionally, the method further comprises creating, by the processor, a questionnaire library for recording the usage questionnaire and the storage questionnaire, the questionnaire library being deployed to update the usage parameter index, and the storage parameter index.
12. The method as claimed in any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the method further comprises assigning, by the processor, a confidence value to each of the plurality of data domains based on the data migration requirement to determine an order of mapping the plurality of data domains with the usage parameter index and the storage parameter index, respectively.
13. The method as claimed in any of claims 8 to 12, wherein the method further comprises: generating, by the processor, the data migration index as an interactive electronic document to receive a migration input from a user; and implementing, by the processor, the second cognitive learning operation on the migration input to determine the data migration model compatible with the data assessment index.
14. The method as claimed in any of claims 8 to 13, wherein the method further comprises initiating, by the processor, data migration from the on-premise data warehouse to the compatible cloud platform from the plurality of cloud platforms to resolve the data migration requirement based on the data migration output.
15. Computer program instructions that are executable by at least one processor which, upon such execution, cause the method of one or more of claims 8 to 14 to be performed.
</claims>
</document>
