<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/01,G08G1/015,G08G1/09,G08G1/0967,G08G1/0968,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KYOCERA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAGI MASAHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63919106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ROADSIDE DEVICE, CONTROL METHOD OF ROADSIDE DEVICE, VEHICLE, AND RECORDING MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A roadside unit comprises a communication unit and a controller. The communication unit wirelessly communicates with a vehicle. The controller: (i) obtains size information indicating a size of the vehicle; (ii) determines, based on the size information, whether the size is larger than a reference value; and (iii) transmits predetermined information to the vehicle through the communication unit when determining that the size is larger than the reference value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A roadside unit installed in a traffic network comprising a first road on which a vehicle larger than a reference value is permitted to travel, and a second road on which travel of the vehicle larger than the reference value is restricted, the second road being connected to the first road, the roadside unit comprising: a first communication unit configured to wirelessly communicate with the vehicle; and a first controller configured to: (i) obtain size information indicating a size of the vehicle; (ii) determine, based on the size information, whether the size is larger than the reference value; and (iii) transmit predetermined information to the vehicle through the first communication unit when determining that the size is larger than the reference value.
2. The roadside unit according to claim 1, wherein the first controller obtains predicted path information indicating a traveling direction of the vehicle, and the first controller transmits the predetermined information when determining that the size is larger than the reference value, based on the size information and determining that the traveling direction is a direction toward the second road, based on the predicted path information.
3. The roadside unit according to claim 2, wherein the first road comprises a first lane and a second lane, the first lane is a lane in which travel from the first road to the second road is permitted, the second lane is a lane in which the travel from the first road to the second road is prohibited, and the first controller obtains, as the predicted path information, position information indicating a position of the vehicle, and the first controller determines that the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road when determining, based on the position information, that the first lane covers the position.
4. The roadside unit according to claim 2 or 3, wherein the vehicle comprises a direction indicator advertising the traveling direction, and the first controller obtains, as the predicted path information, indicator information indicating a state of the direction indicator, and the first controller determines that the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road when determining, based on the indicator information, that the direction indicator indicates travel to the second road.
5. The roadside unit according to claim 3 or 4, comprising
a sensor configured to detect the predicted path information.
6. The roadside unit according to any one of claims 2 to 4,
wherein the first controller receives the predicted path information from the vehicle through the first communication unit.
7. The roadside unit according to any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the vehicle transmits route information indicating a planned path, and the first controller determines that the vehicle will travel to the second road as the traveling direction when determining that the route information received through the first communication unit contains the second road.
8. The roadside unit according to any one of claims 2 to 7, wherein the first controller obtains a plurality of different types of the predicted path information, the first controller makes a tentative determination on whether the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road for each of the plurality of the predicted path information, and the first controller determines that the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road when making any one of the tentative determinations in the affirmative.
9. The roadside unit according to any one of claims 1 to 8, comprising a sensor configured to detect, for each vehicle, first distinguishing information for distinguishing the vehicle and the size information in association with each other, wherein the first controller transmits the predetermined information using the first distinguishing information corresponding to the size information when determining, based on the size information, that the size is larger than the reference value.
10. The roadside unit according to claim 9,
wherein the first distinguishing information contains information indicating a vehicle model, a vehicle registration plate, or a position of the vehicle.
11. The roadside unit according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first controller performs an encryption process on the predetermined information using the first distinguishing information as an encryption key, and the first controller transmits the encrypted predetermined information.
12. The roadside unit according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first controller receives second distinguishing information for distinguishing between a plurality of vehicles, from each of the plurality of vehicles through the first communication unit, the first controller sets communication information between the roadside unit and each of the plurality of vehicles in association with the second distinguishing information, the communication information being address information or a communication channel, the first controller associates the communication information and the size information of a same vehicle in association with each other, based on the first distinguishing information and the second distinguishing information that correspond to each other, and the first controller transmits the predetermined information using the communication information corresponding to the size information when determining, based on the size information, that the size is larger than the reference value.
13. The roadside unit according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the first controller receives second distinguishing information for distinguishing between a plurality of vehicles, from each of the plurality of vehicles through the first communication unit, the first controller sets an encryption key between each of the plurality of vehicles and the roadside unit in association with the second distinguishing information, the first controller associates the encryption key and the size information of a same vehicle in association with each other, based on the first distinguishing information and the second distinguishing information that correspond to each other, the first controller performs an encryption process on the predetermined information using the encryption key corresponding to the size information when determining, based on the size information, that the size is larger than the reference value, and the first controller transmits the encrypted predetermined information.
14. A vehicle, comprising: a second communication unit configured to communicate with the roadside unit according to any one of claims 1 to 13; a notifier configured to make a notification to a driver; and a second controller configured to cause the notifier to perform a process of making the notification upon receipt of the predetermined information from the roadside unit through the second communication unit.
15. A vehicle, comprising: a second communication unit configured to communicate with the roadside unit according to any one of claims 1 to 13; a driving mechanism; and a second controller configured to perform a process of controlling the driving mechanism so that the second controller restricts the vehicle from traveling to the second road upon receipt of the predetermined information from the roadside unit through the second communication unit.
16. The vehicle according to claim 14 or 15, wherein the second controller obtains predicted path information indicating a traveling direction of the vehicle, upon receipt of the predetermined information, the second controller determines whether the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road, based on the predicted path information, and the second controller performs the process when determining that the traveling direction is the direction toward the second road.
17. A method for controlling a roadside unit installed in a traffic network comprising a first road on which a vehicle larger than a reference value is permitted to travel, and a second road on which travel of the vehicle larger than the reference value is restricted, the second road being connected to the first road, the roadside unit comprising a communication unit wirelessly communicating with the vehicle, the method comprising: (i) obtaining size information indicating a size of the vehicle; (ii) determining, based on the size information, whether the size is larger than the reference value; and (iii) transmitting predetermined information to the vehicle through the communication unit when determining that the size is larger than the reference value.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium on which a control program is recorded, the control program causing a roadside unit comprising a communication unit wirelessly communicating with a vehicle to perform processes of: (i) obtaining size information indicating a size of the vehicle; (ii) determining, based on the size information, whether the size is larger than a reference value; and (iii) transmitting predetermined information to the vehicle through the communication unit when determining that the size is larger than the reference value, the roadside unit being installed in a traffic network comprising a first road on which a vehicle larger than the reference value is permitted to travel, and a second road on which travel of the vehicle larger than the reference value is restricted, the second road being connected to the first road.
</claims>
</document>
