<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
POPESCU, STEFAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64559452
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MODEL-BASED IMAGE RECONSTRUCTION USING ANALYTIC MODELS LEARNED BY ARTIFICIAL-NEURAL-NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention is related to a method of and system for image reconstruction comprising accelerated forward transformation with an Artificial Neural Network (ANN).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method (1) of image reconstruction, comprising the recursive steps of: A) checking (3) whether image data (Iadapt, Iinit) suffices predefined quality criteria (Q) and in case the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) did not suffice the predefined quality criteria (Q) continuing with step C); C) generating (5) predicted signal data (Dpre) based on the image data (Iadapt, Iinit, Ireg) by means of accelerated forward transformation with an Artificial Neural Network, ANN, trained on providing an estimation for a solution of signal evolution equations; D) changing (6.1, 6.2, 6.3, 6.4, 6.5) the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) in a signal domain and/or an image domain based on the predicted signal data (Dpre, Dadapt) and raw data (Draw, Draw, adapt) received from an imaging device (100); and continue with step A), characterised in that wherein step D) comprises the steps of: D1) calculating (6.1) a first cost value (C1) based on the predicted signal data (Dpre) and the raw data (Draw, Draw, adapt) in the signal domain; D2) adapting (6.2) the predicted signal data (Dpre) based on the first cost value (C1) in the signal domain; and D3) reconstructing (6.3) image data (Iadapt) based on the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt) .
2. Method (1) according to claim 1, wherein step D) comprises the steps of: D4) calculating (6.4) a second cost value (C2) based on the predicted signal data (Dpre) and the raw data (Draw) ; and D5) adjusting (6.5) the image data (Iadapt, Iinit, Ireg) based on the second cost value (C2) in the image domain.
3. Method (1) according to any preceding claim, further comprising an initial step of: - generating (2) initial image data (Iinit) based on the received raw data (Draw) from the imaging device (100) before the recursive step A).
4. Method according to any preceding claim, further comprising after the recursive step A) a final step of: - outputting (8) the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) in case the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) did suffice the quality criteria (Q) in step A).
5. Method (1) according to any preceding claim, further comprising a step of:
B) regularizing (4) the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) after step A) in case the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) did not suffice the predefined quality criteria (Q),
wherein in step C) the predicted signal data (Dpre) is generated based on the regularized image data (Ireg).
6. Method (1) according to any of the preceding claims, further comprising a step of:
E) adapting (7) the raw data (Draw) into error-corrected raw data (Draw,adapt) based on the first cost value (C1) after step D1) providing for minimizing an error in the raw data (Draw) due to specific conditions during image acquisition with the imaging device (100),
wherein in step D1) of a next iteration the then predicted signal data (Dpre) is compared to the adapted raw data (Draw, adapt).
7. Method (1) according to claim 6, wherein the step D3) of reconstructing the image data (Iadapt) based on the the error-corrected raw data (Draw,adapt) and/or the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt) is effected by means of a second ANN (14) trained on fast image reconstruction from the error-corrected raw data (Draw,adapt) and/or the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt).
8. Method (1) according to any of claims 1 to 6, wherein the step D3) of reconstructing the image data (Iadapt) based on the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt) is effected by means of accelerated Bloch simulations readjusting the predicted signal (Dpre) returned by the ANN in step C) to eliminate gradient trajectory errors and field inhomogeneity and wherein a iFFT is used for reconstructing the image data (Iadapt).
9. Method (1) according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein in the step D3) resampling is performed on the adapted predicted signal (Dadapt) data before reconstructing the image data (Iadapt).
10. Method (1) according to any preceding claim, further comprising the recursive prior training steps of: t1) calculating (26) provisional predicted signal data corresponding to a set of training image data from a multitude of sets of training image data and by using values of internal connection weights of the ANN (12) at the current iteration; t2) calculating (27) a deviation between the provisional predicted signal data and a set of training signal data for a multitude of sets of training signal data corresponding to the set of training image data in step t1); t3) checking (28) whether the deviation is equal to or smaller than a predefined abort criterion; t4) readjusting (29) the values of the internal connection weights based on the deviation in case the deviation is not equal to or smaller than the predefined abort criterion in step t3); and continuing with step t1).
11. Method (1) according to claim 10, further comprising an initial training step of: - initialising (25) the internal connection weights of the ANN with non-zero values before the recursive step t1).
12. Method (1) according to any of claims 10 or 11, further comprising the initial training steps of: - providing (21) the multitude of sets of training image data; - initialising (22) a discretisation grid; - calculating (23) a set of training signal data for each set of training image data; and - storing (24) the set of training signal data together with the respective set of training image data before the recursive step t1).
13. System (10) for image reconstruction arranged and configured for implementing the method (1) according to claim 1, comprising: - a reconstruction controller (11) arranged and configured for checking whether image data (Iadapt, Iinit) suffices predefined quality criteria (Q); - an Artificial Neuronal Network, ANN, (12) trained on providing an estimation for a solution of signal evolution equations arranged and configured for generating predicted signal data (Dpre) by means of accelerated forward transformation based on the image data (Iadapt, Iinit, Ireg) in case the image data (Iadapt, Iinit) did not suffice the predefined quality criteria (Q); - an image changing module (13) arranged and configured for changing the image data (Iadapt, Iinit, Ireg) in a signal domain and/or an image domain based on the predicted signal data (Dpre) and raw data (Draw) received from an imaging device (100) characterized in that the image changing module (13) is further arranged and configured for implementing the steps of: D1)calculating (6.1) a first cost value (C1) based on the predicted signal data (Dpre) and the raw data (Draw, Draw, adapt) in the signal domain; D2) adapting (6.2) the predicted signal data (Dpre) based on the first cost value (C1) in the signal domain; and D3) reconstructing (6.3) image data (Iadapt) based on the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt).
14. System (10) according to claim 13, wherein the image changing module (13) is further arranged and configured for implementing the steps of the method (1) according to claims 2, 8 or 9.
15. System (10) according to claim 13 or 14, wherein the reconstruction controller (11) is further arranged and configured for implementing the steps of the method (1) according to any of claims 3 to 6.
16. System according to any of claims 13 to 15, further comprising: - a second ANN (14) trained on fast image reconstruction from the error-corrected raw data (Draw,adapt) and/or the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt) and arranged and configured for effecting the step D3) of reconstructing the image data based on the error-corrected raw data (Draw,adapt) and/or the adapted predicted signal data (Dadapt) .
17. System (10) according to any of claims 13 to 16, wherein the ANN (12) was trained based on the steps of the method (1) according to any of claims 10 to 12.
18. Imaging device (100) comprising the system (10) according to any of claims 13 to 17.
</claims>
</document>
