<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/02,A61N1/04,A61N1/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ONCOSEC MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENISON, ANDY, E
CONNOLLY, RICHARD, J.
BAHRAMI, AYRA
HAYDEN, CHRISTOPHER, S
PIERCE, ROBERT, H.
JOHNSON, ERIC, T.
CAMPBELL, JEAN
BROWN, DOUGLAS, W.
RAGLAND, ROBERT, R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55755735
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVED TISSUE-SENSING BASED ELECTROPORATION
</title>

<abstract>
An adaptive control method for controlling EP pulse parameters during electroporation (EP) of cells or tissue using an EP system includes providing a system for adaptive control to optimize EP pulse parameters including EP pulse parameters, applying voltage and current excitation signals to the cells, obtaining data from the current and voltage measurements, and processing the data to separate the desirable data from the undesirable data, extracting relevant features from the desirable data, applying at least a portion of the relevant features to a trained diagnostic model, estimating EP pulsing parameters based on an outcome of the applied relevant features, where the initialized EP pulsing parameters are based on the trained model and the relevant features, to optimize the EP pulsing parameters, and applying, by the generator, a first EP pulse based on the first pulsing parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing adaptive control to optimize electroporation (EP) pulse parameters during EP of cells and tissue using an EP device (1540), said system comprising: a) a measurement device (1510) configured to measure dielectric and conductive properties of cells and tissues, said measurement device including: i) a voltage sensor configured to measure voltages across said tissue resulting from each of an excitation signal and an EP pulse applied to said tissue; and ii) a current sensor configured to measure current across said tissue resulting from each of said excitation signal and said at least one applied EP pulse; b) an initializing module (1520) configured to initialize EP pulsing parameters for performing electroporation in said cells or tissue, said initialized EP pulsing parameters based at least in part on at least one trained model; c) a signal generator (1530) configured to apply at least one of said excitation signals and said EP pulse to said tissue, wherein said voltage sensor and current sensor of said measurement device measure voltage and current across said cells of said tissue in response to said application of said excitation signals; d) a controller (1505) configured to receive a signal relating to said measured sensor data from said measurement device, corresponding to at least one of said excitation signal and said EP pulse, to fit said data to at least one trained model and to process said data into diagnostics of the tissues and cells and/or updated control parameters for the system, wherein said controller comprises: i) a pre-processing module (1550) configured to receive said signal relating to said data from said current and voltage measurements, and process said data to separate desirable data from undesirable data; ii) a feature extraction module (1570) configured to extract relevant features from said desirable data; iii) a diagnostic module (1580) configured to apply at least a portion of said relevant features of said desirable data to at least one trained diagnostic model, and iv) a pulse parameter estimation module (1560) configured to estimate at least one of initialized pulsing parameters and subsequent pulsing parameters based on an outcome of at least one of said measured data, said diagnostic module and said feature extraction module; and e) a memory module configured to store said desirable and undesirable data, sensor data and said trained models for feature extraction by said controller.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising the EP device, wherein said EP device comprises: a central probe (1702) defining at least a central lumen (1708) and extending from a proximal end (1706) to a distal end, at least a portion of said central probe (1702) creating a channel (1734) for delivery of therapeutic moieties to said tissue, said portion of said central probe (1702) having at least one ejection port (1710), wherein said proximal end (1706) of said central probe (1702) is configured to receive said therapeutic moieties delivered to said central probe (1702), and wherein said distal end of said central probe (1702) is open to define an opening for delivery of said therapeutic moieties to said tissue and has a shape configured to pierce said tissue.
3. The system of claim 2, comprising the EP device, wherein said EP device comprises: a) an applicator (1712) housing said central probe (1702) at least partially, said applicator (1712) having a distal end through which said portion of said central probe (1702) is configured to extend to an outside of said applicator (1712) to contact said tissue and to retract back into said applicator (1712); and b) at least two oppositely charged electroporation electrodes (EPEs) (1720) configured to be positioned surrounding said tissue, said EPEs being adapted to extend from proximal to distal ends, said distal ends having a needle shape configured to pierce said tissue, wherein said measurement device is coupled to said EPEs, and said electrodes (1720) are adapted to be coupled to said generator to receive at least one of said excitation signal and said electrical waveform for said EP pulse.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller (1505) is configured to perform one-step ahead feedforward control, such that before a first EP pulse is applied, the pulse parameter estimation module (1560) is configured to initialize the control parameters for the first EP pulse based on the at least one trained model.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one trained model is trained based on empirical data obtained in past experiments, wherein the controller (1505) is configured to use the at least one trained model to compare the extracted relevant features to features derived from the empirical data obtained in previous experiments.
6. The system of any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the controller (1505) is configured to perform electrochemical impedance spectroscopy (EIS) based on the excitation signals.
7. The system of any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein the signal generator (1530) is configured to apply the excitation signals at a low interrogatory voltage and is configured to apply said EP pulse at a higher voltage.
8. The system of claim 7, further comprising solid state relays configured to switch the signal generator (1530) between the low interrogatory voltage and the higher voltage.
9. The system of any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the at least one trained model is trained using supervised learning routines.
10. The system of claim 3, wherein the EPEs (1720) of the EP device are coupled to the measurement device, and the EPEs are adapted to be coupled to the generator (1530) to receive at least one of the excitation signal and the electrical waveform for the EP pulse.
11. The system of any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the pre-processing module is configured to separate the desirable data from the undesirable data by at least one of a) de-noising the sensor signals, b) removing a direct current (DC) bias from the sensor signals, c) scaling the data based on standardized values, wherein the standardized values include standard deviation, d) mean filtering, and e) removing outliers from the data.
12. An adaptive control method for controlling EP pulse parameters during electroporation (EP) of cells or tissue in vitro or ex vivo using an EP system, said adaptive control method comprising: a) providing the system of claim 1; b) initializing, by said initialization module, EP pulse parameters for performing said EP in said cells or tissue in vitro or ex vivo, said initialized EP pulse parameters based at least in part on said at least one trained model; c) applying, by said generator, said voltage and current excitation signals to said cells and tissue and measuring, by said measurement device, said voltage and current across said cells and tissue corresponding to said applied excitation signals; d) obtaining, by said controller, data from said current and voltage measurements, and processing said data to separate said desirable data from said undesirable data; e) extracting, by said controller, relevant features from said desirable data; f) applying, by said controller, at least a portion of said relevant features of said desirable data to said at least one trained diagnostic model; g) estimating, by said controller, EP pulsing parameters, based on an outcome of said applied relevant features to said trained models, wherein said initialized EP pulsing parameters are based on said at least one trained model and said relevant features, to optimize said EP pulsing parameters; and h) applying, by said generator, a first EP pulse based on said first pulsing parameters.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising predicting subsequent EP pulsing parameters after said first EP pulse has been applied, by said controller, using said trained model based on a previous EP pulse, and a change in at least one of said relevant features between applied EP pulses.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: f) applying a subsequent EP pulse, by said generator, based on said subsequent EP pulsing parameters; and g) repeating said applying said voltage and current excitation signals, repeating said measuring said cells or tissue, repeating said obtaining said data and separating desirable data from undesirable data; repeating said extracting relevant features; and repeating said applying, until either i) a pre-determined limit of number of EP pulse sequences or cycles of EP pulses is reached, or ii) said diagnostic response prompts a diagnostic decision to terminate said adaptive control method.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein said features are derived from a parametric model fit of magnitude and phase measurements of said voltage and current signals selected from the group comprising intracellular resistance, extracellular resistance, solution resistance, membrane capacitance, admittance, constant phase element exponent, and charging time constant.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein said features are derived from magnitude ratio or phase difference of said excitation voltage and current signals and said features comprise: a) values of magnitude ratio and phase difference of said excitation voltage and current signals at fixed frequencies; b) at least one of a mean, median, maximum, and minimum of: i) magnitude ratio or phase difference of said excitation voltage and current signals magnitude over a narrow frequency band; ii) magnitude ratio or phase difference of said excitation voltage and current signals magnitude phase over a wide frequency band; and c) curvature, slope and noise of said magnitude ratio or phase difference of said excitation voltage and current signals with respect to frequency.
</claims>
</document>
