<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRÜGER, BENEDIKT, DR.
TAYLOR, ROBERT JAMES, DR.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63144906
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
BLOCKCHAIN-BASED DISTRIBUTION OF MEDICAL DATA RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to a method for providing an uniform resource locator, comprising the step of receiving a medical data record with an interface, wherein the medical data record is related to a patient, the step of determining the uniform resource locater related to the medical data record with a computation unit, wherein the uniform resource locator comprises an authorization token based on the medical data record, and wherein the medical data record can be accessed by following the uniform resource locator, and the step of providing the uniform resource locator with the interface to the patient.The inventors recognized that by providing a uniform resource locator comprising an authorization token access to the medical data record can be granted fast and efficient, e.g. by a patient forwarding the uniform resource locator to another entity (e.g. a physician), while at the same time non-authorized entities cannot access the medical data record due to their lack of the suitable authorization token.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing a uniform resource locator (URL), comprising: - receiving (REC-MDR) a medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) with an interface (PS.IF), wherein the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) is related to a patient (PAT), - determining (DET-URL) the uniform resource locator (URL) related to the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) with a computation unit (PS.CU),
wherein the uniform resource locator (URL) comprises an authorization token based on the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l),
and wherein the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) can be accessed by following the uniform resource locator (URL), - providing (PROV-URL) the uniform resource locator (URL) with the interface (PS.IF) to the patient (PAT).
2. The method according to claim 1, furthermore comprising: - storing (STR-MDR) the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) with a memory unit (PS.MU), wherein the uniform resource locator (URL) comprises the location of the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) in the memory unit (PS.MU).
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-AEID) an identifier (AEID.j, AEID.k, AEID.l) of an authorized entity (AE) with the interface (PS.IF), wherein the authorized entity (AE) is allowed to access the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l),
wherein the uniform resource locator (URL) is based on the identifier (AEID.j, AEID.k, AEID.l) of the authorized entity (AE).
4. The method according to claim 3, furthermore comprising: - determining (DET-CI) consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) with the computation unit (PS.CU), wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) is related to the consent of the patient (PAT) to the use of the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) by the authorized entity (AE), wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) is based on the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) and/or on the identifier (AEID.j, AEID.k, AEID.l) of the authorized entity (AE), - documenting (DOC-CI) the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) in a distributed consent ledger (CLDG) with the computation unit (PS.CU).
5. The method according to claim 4, furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-PI1) a first identifier (PID1) of the patient (PAT) with the interface (PS.IF),
wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) is furthermore based on the first identifier (PID1) of the patient (PAT).
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) comprises a consent signature (CSGN, CSGN.j, CSGN.k, CSGN.l) based on the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) and/or based on the identifier (AEID.j, AEID.k, AEID.l) of the authorized entity (AE), wherein the consent signature (CSGN, CSGN.j, CSGN.k, CSGN.l) is signed based on the first identifier (PID1) of the patient (PAT).
7. The method according to one of the claims 4 to 6, furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-UI) usage information (UI, UI.j, UI.k, UI.l) with the interface (PS.IF),
wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) is furthermore based on the usage information (UI, UI.j, UI.k, UI.l).
8. The method according to one of the preceding claims, furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-PI2) a second identifier (PID2) of the patient (PAT) with the interface (PS.IF), - determining (DET-OI) ownership information (OI, OI.j, OI.k, OI.l) with the computation unit (PS.CU), wherein the ownership information (OI, OI.j, OI.k, OI.l) comprises an ownership signature (OSGN, OSGN.j, OSGN.l, OSGN.l) based on the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l), wherein the ownership signature (OSGN, OSGN.j, OSGN.k, OSGN.l) is signed based on the second identifier (PID2) of the patient (PAT), - documenting (DOC-OI) the ownership information (OI, OI.j, OI.k, OI.l) in a distributed ownership ledger (OLDG) with the computation unit (PS.CU).
9. The method according to one of the claims 4 to 8,
wherein the consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) comprises a smart contract,
wherein the smart contracts regulates a transfer of cryptocurrency in the event of a usage of the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l),
wherein the cryptocurrency is transferred from a first account to a second account,
wherein the first account is related to an entity using the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l),
and wherein the second account is related to the first identifier (PID1) of the patient (PAT) and/or to the second identifier (PID2) of the patient (PAT).
10. A method for using a uniform resource locator (URL) provided by a method according to one of the claims 2 to 9, comprising: - receiving (REC-AR) an access request (AR) directed to a requested medical data record (RMDR) by an interface (US.IF), wherein the requested medical data record (RMDR) is stored within a memory unit (US.MU),
wherein the access request (AR) is based on the uniform resource locator (URL), - providing (PROV-MDR) the requested medical data record (RMDR) based on the access request (AR) with the interface (US.IF).
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the access request (AR) is initiated by a requesting entity (RE),
wherein consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) based on medical data records (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) and on identifiers (AEID.j, AEID.k, AEID.l) of authorized entities (AE) are documented in a distributed consent ledger (CLDG), the method furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-REID) an identifier (REID) of the requesting entity (RE) with the interface (US.IF), - performing a first check (CHK-1) whether the distributed consent ledger (CLDG) documents a consent information (CI, CI.j, CI.k, CI.l) based on the requested medical data record (RMDR) and on the identifier (REID) of the requesting entity (RE) with a computation unit (US.CU),
wherein the step of providing (PROV-MDR) is only executed in case of a positive first check.
12. The method according to claim 10 or 11,
wherein ownership information (OI, OI.j, OI.k, OI.l) are documented in a distributed ownership ledger (OLDG),
wherein each ownership information (OI, OI.j, OI.k, OI.l) comprises a ownership signatures (OSGN, OSGN.j, OSGN.k, OSGN.l) based on medical data records (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l),
wherein the ownership signature (OSGN, OSGN.j, OSGN.k, OSGN.l) is signed based on a second identifier (PID2)of a patient (PAT), furthermore comprising: - determining (DET-PI2) an ownership second identifier of the patient (PAT) being owner of the requested medical data record (RMDR) based on the distributed ownership ledger (OLDG) with the computation unit (PS.CU), - transferring (TRF-1) cryptocurrency from a first account to a second account with the computation unit (PS.CU),
and wherein the second account is related to the ownership second identifier of the patient (PAT).
13. The method according to claim 12, furthermore comprising: - receiving (REC-AI), by a trusted entity (TE), an account information (ACCI) by the patient (PAT) being owner of the requested medical data record (RMDR), - transferring (TRF-2), by the trusted entity (TE), cryptocurrency from the second account to a third account based on the account information (ACCI),
wherein the third account is related to the trusted entity (TE), - initiating a payment from the trusted entity (TE) to the patient (PAT) by the trusted entity (TE).
14. A providing system (PS) for providing a uniform resource locator (URL), comprising: - an interface (PS.IF), configured for receiving (REC-MDR) a medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l), wherein the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) is related to a patient (PAT),
furthermore configured for providing (PROV-URL) the uniform resource locator (URL) with the interface to the patient (PAT), - a computation unit (PS.CU), configured for determining (DET-URL) the uniform resource locator (URL) related to the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l), wherein the uniform resource locator (URL) comprises an authorization token based on the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l), and wherein the medical data record (MDR, MDR.j, MDR.k, MDR.l) can be accessed by following the uniform resource locator (URL).
15. A computer program product comprising program elements which induce a providing system (PS) to carry out the steps of the method for providing a uniform resource locator (URL) according to one of the claims 1 to 9, when the program elements are loaded into a memory unit (PS.MU) of the providing system (PS).
</claims>
</document>
