<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G43/10,B65G47/26,G05B19/418
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTELLIGRATED HEADQUARTERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NITZBERG, JASON-DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69400488
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ZONE CONTROL SYSTEM FOR AN ACCUMULATION CONVEYOR
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments disclosed herein provide for an improved accumulation conveyor and systems and methods for controlling a high rate, high density tunable accumulation conveyor. In one embodiment, an accumulation conveyor system determines whether an item detection variable associated with a second zone of a plurality of zones is satisfied, wherein the second zone is downstream of a first zone. The accumulation conveyor system determines whether at least one of two operational characteristic variables is satisfied. In an instance where both the item detection variable and at least one operational characteristic variable are satisfied, the accumulation conveyor system is configured to set a zone operating state associated with the first zone to inactive and send a command signal comprising the zone operating state associated with the first zone to a control module associated with the first zone. In another embodiment, an improved method for adjusting aggressiveness is disclosed. In another embodiment, a tunable release rate accumulation conveyor is disclosed. In still another embodiment, a tunable crowding accumulation conveyor is disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An accumulation conveyor system comprising: a conveyor having a plurality of zones; one or more sensors associated with each zone of the plurality of zones; one or more control modules associated with the plurality of zones; a controller in communication with the one or more control modules, the controller comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory storing executable instructions therein, wherein the executable instructions are configured to, in execution with the at least one processor, cause the controller to: determine whether an item detection variable associated with a second zone of the plurality of zones is satisfied, wherein the second zone is downstream of a first zone; determine whether at least one of two operational characteristic variables is satisfied, the two operational characteristic variables comprising a first operational characteristic variable and a second operational characteristic variable; in an instance where both the item detection variable and at least one operational characteristic variable are satisfied, set a zone operating state associated with the first zone to inactive; and send a command signal comprising the zone operating state associated with the first zone to the control module associated with the first zone.
2. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein in an instance where the item detection variable is not satisfied, the executable instructions are further configured to cause the controller to set the zone operating state associated with the first zone to active.
3. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein the item detection variable associated with the second zone is satisfied when a presence of an object on the conveyor is detected via the one or more sensors associated with the second zone.
4. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the one or more sensors associated with the second zone is a photo eye and the item detection variable associated with the second zone is satisfied when the controller receives a blocked signal from the photo eye.
5. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein in an instance where the first operational characteristic variable and the second operational characteristic variable are not satisfied, the executable instructions are further configured to cause the controller to set the zone operating state associated with the first zone to active.
6. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein the first operational characteristic variable is satisfied when a zone operating state associated with the second zone is inactive.
7. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein the first zone is associated with a roller countdown timer and the second operational characteristic variable is satisfied when the roller countdown timer is expired.
8. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 7, wherein the roller countdown timer is configured to activate each instance the zone operating state associated with the first zone is inactive.
9. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 7, wherein the roller countdown timer is configured to reset each instance the zone operating state associated with the first zone is active.
10. The accumulation conveyor system of claim 1, wherein the first zone is assigned a local zone number and the second operational characteristic variable is satisfied when the local zone number is less than a threshold associated with assignment of local zone numbers.
11. A method for adjusting a level of accumulation aggressiveness associated with an accumulation conveyor comprising: receiving conveyor data input, the conveyor data input comprising configuration variables associated with the accumulation conveyor; querying an accumulation settings repository for accumulation settings based upon at least the conveyor data input; determining an initial accumulation mode based upon at least the conveyor data input and the accumulation settings returned by the query, the initial accumulation mode associated with one or more aggressiveness parameters; programmatically generating an aggressiveness linear equation based upon at least the accumulation settings returned by the query; assigning an aggressiveness value associated with the initial accumulation mode as a default value of the aggressiveness linear equation; and in response to detecting a change in the aggressiveness value, adjusting at least one of the one or more aggressiveness parameters associated with the initial accumulation mode in accordance with the aggressiveness linear equation.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein adjusting at least one of the one or more aggressiveness parameters associated with the initial accumulation mode in accordance with the aggressiveness linear equation adjusts the level of accumulation aggressiveness associated with the accumulation conveyor in comparison to the default value.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting a change in the aggressiveness value corresponds to an indication of increasing the aggressiveness value.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting a change in the aggressiveness value corresponds to an indication of decreasing the aggressiveness value.
15. The method of claim 11 further comprising: rendering an aggressiveness configuration interface to a controller user interface, wherein the conveyor data input is associated with user engagement of the aggressiveness configuration interface; and configuring an aggressiveness interface object based upon at least the aggressiveness linear equation and the default value and outputting the aggressiveness interface object to the controller user interface, wherein detecting a change in the aggressiveness value comprises receiving user input associated with user engagement of the aggressiveness interface object.
</claims>
</document>
