<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F40/30,G06F40/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRACE MERCYLAWRENCE, MARIN
MENGI, GAURAV
RAJAGOPAL, VIDYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69167615
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR USING A QUESTION AND ANSWER ENGINE
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for using, training, building, and managing a question and answer engine to automatically generate responses to an end-user is disclosed. Specifically, the method and system make use of a topic builder that uses cluster predictions to generate and identify a list of topics and subtopics. A question and answer database may then be sorted by topic and subtopic using a similarity scorer. New user utterances may be analyzed to identify questions, with a cluster predictor identifying the corresponding topic and subtopics for each question, and a similarity scorer may identify the closest known question for the user's question to a recommender as an answer. Analytics of new user utterances are tracked to update the historical utterance database and question and answer database, thus allowing continuous improvement of the engine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of using a question and answer engine to automatically generate responses to an end-user, the method comprising: classifying each utterance stored in a historical utterance database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; classifying each of a plurality of questions and corresponding answers stored in a question and answer database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; receiving a first user utterance and determining that the first user utterance is associated with a first topic and a first subtopic; identifying a list of questions similar to the first user utterance stored in the question and answer database by applying a similarity scorer to the first user utterance, the list including a first question and a corresponding first answer; and automatically generating a first response to the first user utterance based on the first answer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user utterance is classified as a question, and the method further comprises generating a similarity score for the first user utterance in relation to the first question, and the similarity score is greater than a preselected threshold.
3. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein classifying each utterance under at least one topic and at least one subtopic further comprises: filtering stop words from each utterance; lemmatizing each utterance; vectorizing each utterance; identifying keywords within each utterance; determining a relationship between keywords within each utterance; and identifying the at least one topic and the at least one subtopic for each utterance by clustering.
4. The method of any one of claims 1 to 3, further comprising: receiving a second user utterance; and classifying the second user utterance as an issue, request, or question.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second user utterance is classified as an issue or request, and the method further comprises: determining that the second user utterance is associated with a second topic and a second subtopic; and automatically routing the end-user to a human agent who is associated with one or more skills that are related to the second topic and second subtopic.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the second user utterance is classified as a question, and the method further comprises: determining that the second user utterance is associated with a second topic and a second subtopic; applying the similarity scorer to the second user utterance and determining the second user utterance is novel relative to the plurality of questions stored in the question and answer database; retrieving, from an electronic resource database, at least a first electronic resource labeled with the second topic and second subtopic; and automatically presenting the first electronic resource as a response to the second user utterance.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the second user utterance is classified as a question, and the method further comprises: determining that the second user utterance is associated with a second topic and a second subtopic; applying the similarity scorer to the second user utterance and determining the second user utterance is novel relative to the plurality of questions stored in the question and answer database; and automatically routing the end-user to a human agent who is associated with one or more skills that are related to the second topic and second subtopic.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the first electronic resource is one of a document, URL, video, image, and tutorial.
9. A system for using a question and answer engine to automatically generate responses to an end-user, the system comprising: a processor; machine-readable media including instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: classify each utterance stored in a historical utterance database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; classify each of a plurality of questions and corresponding answers stored in a question and answer database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; receive a first user utterance and determining that the first user utterance is associated with a first topic and a first subtopic; identify a list of questions similar to the first user utterance stored in the question and answer database by applying a similarity scorer to the first user utterance, the list including a first question and a corresponding first answer; and automatically generate a first response to the first user utterance based on the first answer.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first user utterance is classified as a question, and the method further comprises generating a similarity score for the first user utterance in relation to the first question, and the similarity score is greater than a preselected threshold.
11. The system of claim 9 or claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: tokenize the first user utterance to produce a tokenized utterance; normalize the tokenized utterance to produce a normalized utterance; filter stop words from the normalized utterance to produce a filtered utterance; lemmatize the filtered utterance to produce a lemmatized utterance; position tag the lemmatized utterance to identify tag words; vectorize the tag words; and score the vectorized tag words using cosine similarity.
12. The system of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: receive a second user utterance; and classify the second user utterance as an issue, request, or question.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the second user utterance is classified as a question, and the instructions further cause the processor to: determine that the second user utterance is associated with a second topic and a second subtopic; apply the similarity scorer to the second user utterance and determining a similarity score for the second user utterance in relation to one or more questions classified under the second topic and second subtopic in the question and answer database, where the similarity score is less than a preselected threshold; retrieve, from the question and answer database, the most frequently asked question associated with the second subtopic and its corresponding second answer; and automatically generate a second response to the second user utterance based on the second answer.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more processors which, upon such execution, cause the one or more processors to: classify each utterance stored in a historical utterance database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; classify each of a plurality of questions and corresponding answers stored in a question and answer database under at least one topic and at least one subtopic; receive a first user utterance and determining that the first user utterance is associated with a first topic and a first subtopic; identify a list of questions similar to the first user utterance stored in the question and answer database by applying a similarity scorer to the first user utterance, the list including a first question and a corresponding first answer; and automatically generate a first response to the first user utterance based on the first answer.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software of claim 14, wherein the first user utterance is classified as a question, and the instructions further cause the one or more processors to generate a similarity score for the first user utterance in relation to the first question, and the similarity score is greater than a preselected threshold.
</claims>
</document>
