<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G09G5/00,H04N13/122,H04N13/128,H04N13/261
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SEMICONDUCTOR ENERGY LABORATORY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
IWAKI, YUJI
YAMAZAKI, SHUNPEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63585142
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICE, DISPLAY SYSTEM, AND ELECTRONIC DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
To provide a novel semiconductor device or display system. To provide a semiconductor device or display system that can display stereoscopic images.A signal generation unit has a function of, with the use of artificial intelligence, obtaining information on a scene of an image and information on a depth of the image and correcting image data on the basis of the information so that a stereoscopic effect is emphasized. An image signal obtained by the correction of the image data is supplied to a display unit, so that a stereoscopic image can be displayed on a display region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device comprising: a first obtaining unit, a second obtaining unit, a selection unit, and a correction unit, wherein the first obtaining unit is configured to obtain first information on a scene of an image, wherein the second obtaining unit is configured to obtain second information on a depth of an image, wherein the selection unit is configured to select a depth map suitable for an emphasis of a stereoscopic effect of an image on the basis of the first information and the second information, wherein the correction unit is configured to correct image data on the basis of the depth map, wherein the selection unit comprises a neural network, wherein the second information is input to an input layer of the neural network, and wherein a selection result of the depth map is output from an output layer of the neural network.
2. The semiconductor device according to claim 1,
wherein the first obtaining unit is configured to obtain the first information using machine learning, and
wherein the second obtaining unit is configured to obtain the second information using machine learning.
3. The semiconductor device according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the correction unit comprises a conversion unit and an emphasis unit,
wherein the correction unit is configured to correct the image data, and
wherein the emphasis unit is configured to perform processing for emphasizing a stereoscopic effect on the image data corrected by the correction unit.
4. The semiconductor device according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the neural network comprises a product-sum operation element,
wherein the product-sum operation element comprises a memory circuit comprising a first transistor, a second transistor, and a capacitor,
wherein one of a source and a drain of the first transistor is electrically connected to a gate of the second transistor and the capacitor, and
wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region.
5. A display system comprising: a signal generation unit comprising the semiconductor device according to any one of claims 1 and 2; and a display unit, wherein the signal generation unit is configured to generate an image signal using the corrected image data, and wherein the display unit is configured to display an image on the basis of the image signal.
6. The display system according to claim 5,
wherein the display unit comprises a display panel, and
wherein the display panel has flexibility.
7. A display system comprising: a display unit and a signal generation unit, wherein the display unit comprises a display panel, wherein the display panel comprises a display element and a first transistor, wherein the display element is electrically connected to the first transistor, wherein the display element comprises a micro light-emitting diode, wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region, wherein the signal generation unit is configured to correct image data and generate an image signal using the corrected image data, and wherein the display unit is configured to display an image on the basis of the image signal.
8. A display system comprising: a display unit and a signal generation unit, wherein the display unit comprises a display panel, wherein the display panel comprises a display element, wherein the display element comprises a micro light-emitting diode, wherein the signal generation unit comprises a first transistor, wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region, wherein the signal generation unit is configured to correct image data and generate an image signal using the corrected image data, and wherein the display unit is configured to display an image on the basis of the image signal.
9. The display system according to claim 8,
wherein the display panel further comprises a second transistor,
wherein the display element is electrically connected to the first transistor, and
wherein the first transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region.
10. The display system according to any one of claims 7 to 9,
wherein the signal generation unit comprises a first obtaining unit, a second obtaining unit, a selection unit, and a correction unit,
wherein the first obtaining unit is configured to obtain first information on a scene of an image,
wherein the second obtaining unit is configured to obtain second information on a depth of an image,
wherein the selection unit is configured to select a depth map suitable for an emphasis of a stereoscopic effect of an image on the basis of the first information and the second information,
wherein the correction unit is configured to correct image data on the basis of the depth map,
wherein the selection unit comprises a neural network,
wherein the second information is input to an input layer of the neural network, and
wherein a selection result of the depth map is output from an output layer of the neural network.
11. The display system according to claim 10,
wherein the first obtaining unit is configured to obtain the first information using machine learning, and
wherein the second obtaining unit is configured to obtain the second information using machine learning.
12. The display system according to claim 10,
wherein the correction unit comprises a conversion unit and an emphasis unit, and
wherein the emphasis unit is configured to perform processing for emphasizing a stereoscopic effect on the image data corrected by the correction unit.
13. The display system according to claim 10,
wherein the neural network comprises a product-sum operation element,
wherein the product-sum operation element comprises a memory circuit comprising a third transistor, a fourth transistor, and a capacitor,
wherein one of a source and a drain of the third transistor is electrically connected to a gate of the fourth transistor and the capacitor, and
wherein the third transistor comprises a metal oxide in a channel formation region.
14. The display system according to any one of claims 7 to 9,
wherein the display panel has flexibility.
15. An electronic device comprising the display system according to any one of claims 6 to 9.
</claims>
</document>
