<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F03D17/00,F03D7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HASHIMOTO, MASAYUKI
HAYASHI, KENTARO
IKAWA, YOSHIKATSU
NAKANO, TAKAHIRO
SHINKAWA, ERIKO
YUGE, ATSUSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68731693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
OPERATING STATE EVALUATION METHOD AND OPERATING STATE EVALUATION DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
An operating condition of a wind turbine facility or at least one wind turbine is acquired, and an estimated value of a measurable physical quantity corresponding to the operating condition is calculated. It is determined whether an abnormality is present in the wind turbine by comparing the estimated value and the actual value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for evaluating an operating state of a wind turbine facility including at least one wind turbine, comprising: a step of acquiring an operating condition of the wind turbine facility or the at least one wind turbine; a step of calculating an estimated value of a physical quantity measurable on the at least one wind turbine and corresponding to the operating condition; a step of acquiring an actual value corresponding to the physical quantity; and a step of determining whether an abnormality is present in the at least one wind turbine by comparing the estimated value and the actual value.
2. The method according to claim 1,
wherein the estimated value is calculated by inputting the operating condition as an input parameter to a physical model of the wind turbine facility or the at least one wind turbine.
3. The method according to claim 1,
wherein the estimated value is calculated by inputting the operating condition as an input parameter to a machine learning model of the wind turbine facility or the at least one wind turbine.
4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3,
wherein the at least one wind turbine includes a plurality of wind turbines, and
wherein the operating condition is obtained by averaging parameters acquired from each of the plurality of wind turbines.
5. The method according to claim 1,
wherein the at least one wind turbine includes a plurality of wind turbines, and
wherein the estimated value is obtained by applying statistical processing to the actual value acquired from each of the plurality of wind turbines.
6. The method according to claim 5,
wherein the estimated value is an average of the actual value acquired from each of the plurality of wind turbines.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6,
wherein a difference between the estimated value and the actual value is calculated, and it is determined whether an abnormality is present based on whether the difference exceeds a threshold.
8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7,
wherein the at least one wind turbine includes a plurality of wind turbines, and
wherein the method includes a step of identifying a wind turbine having an abnormality by comparison in behavior of the actual value with respect to the operating condition among the plurality of wind turbines.
9. The method according to claim 8,
wherein a correlation coefficient between the estimated value and the actual value is obtained for each of the plurality of wind turbines, and a wind turbine whose correlation coefficient exceeds a threshold is determined to have an abnormality.
10. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 9,
wherein the at least one wind turbine includes a plurality of wind turbines,
wherein the method further includes: a step of calculating an abnormality degree of each of the plurality of wind turbines, based on the operating condition of each of the wind turbines; a step of determining whether an abnormality is present in each of the plurality of wind turbines, based on the abnormality degree of each of the wind turbines, and a step of, if at least one of the plurality of wind turbines is determined to have an abnormality, verifying an abnormality positive determination that the at least one of the plurality of wind turbines has the abnormality, and wherein the step of verifying the abnormality positive determination includes: a step of acquiring a determination result regarding one or more other of the plurality of wind turbines based on the abnormality degree, in a predetermined period including a timing of acquiring the operating condition used for calculating the abnormality degree based on which the abnormality positive determination is made, and a step of making a first validity determination whether the abnormality positive determination is valid, based on the number of wind turbines that are determined to be abnormal based on the abnormality degree among the one or more other of the plurality of wind turbines.
11. The method according to claim 10,
wherein the step of making the first validity determination includes determining that the abnormality positive determination is invalid if the number is less than a first verification threshold, and determining that the abnormality positive determination is valid if the number is not less than the first verification threshold.
12. The method according to claim 10 or 11, further comprising a step of notifying that the abnormality is detected if the abnormality positive determination is determined to be valid.
13. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 12,
wherein the at least one wind turbine includes a plurality of wind turbines,
wherein the method further includes: a step of calculating an abnormality degree of each of the plurality of wind turbines, based on the operating condition of each of the wind turbines; a step of determining whether an abnormality is present in each of the plurality of wind turbines, based on the abnormality degree of each of the wind turbines, and a step of, if at least one of the plurality of wind turbines is determined not to have an abnormality, verifying an abnormality negative determination that the at least one of the plurality of wind turbines does not have an abnormality, and wherein the step of verifying the abnormality negative determination includes: a step of calculating a statistic of the abnormality degree of each of the plurality of wind turbines; a step of calculating a relationship between the abnormality degree of each of the plurality of wind turbines and the statistic; and a step of a making a second validity determination whether the abnormality negative determination is valid for each of the wind turbines, based on the relationship.
14. The method according to claim 13, further comprising a step of issuing notification if the abnormality negative determination is determined to be invalid.
15. A device for evaluating an operating state of a wind turbine facility including at least one wind turbine, comprising: an operating condition acquisition part configured to acquire an operating condition of the wind turbine facility or the at least one wind turbine; an estimated value calculation part configured to calculate an estimated value of a physical quantity measurable on the at least one wind turbine and corresponding to the operating condition; an actual value acquisition part configured to acquire an actual value corresponding to the physical quantity; and a determination part configured to determine whether an abnormality is present in the at least one wind turbine by comparison between the estimated value and the actual value.
</claims>
</document>
