<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F21/57,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDERSON, BLAKE HARRELL
MCGREW, DAVID
SHENEFIEL, CHRIS ALLEN
WAITMAN, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68581266
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
UNSTRUCTURED DATA SENSITIVITY INFERENCE FOR FILE MOVEMENT TRACKING IN A NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
In embodiments, a traffic analysis service that monitors a network obtains file metadata regarding an electronic file. The traffic analysis service determines a sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata. The traffic analysis service detects the electronic file within traffic in the network. The traffic analysis service causes performance of a mitigation action regarding the detection of the electronic file within the traffic, based on the sensitivity score of the electronic file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a traffic analysis service that monitors a network, file metadata regarding an electronic file; determining, by the traffic analysis service, a sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata; detecting, by the traffic analysis service, the electronic file within traffic in the network; causing, by the traffic analysis service, performance of a mitigation action regarding the detection of the electronic file within the traffic, based on the sensitivity score of the electronic file.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the mitigation action comprises sending an alert to a user interface that identifies the electronic file and a sender of the traffic.
3. The method as in claim 1 or 2, wherein the traffic is encrypted, and wherein detecting, by the traffic analysis service, the electronic file within traffic in the network comprises: using a machine learning-based classifier to predict a plaintext data size of the traffic; and matching a file size of the electronic file to the predicted plaintext data size of the traffic.
4. The method as in claim 1, 2 or 3, wherein the file metadata comprises user profile information associated with the electronic file.
5. The method as in any preceding claim, wherein determining the sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata comprises using a machine learning-based classifier to classify the file metadata, wherein the classifier is trained using a training dataset that comprises file metadata for a plurality of files that has been labeled with sensitivity scores; and/or
wherein the sensitivity score for the electronic file is determined based further on whether malware was detected on an endpoint on which the electronic file is hosted.
6. The method as in any preceding claim, wherein the sensitivity score is determined further based on a frequency of the file appearing on endpoints across at least a portion of the network.
7. The method as in any preceding claim, wherein the metadata comprises a file name or file path, and wherein determining the sensitivity score for the electronic file comprises: matching one or more words that appear in the file name or file path of the electronic file to words appearing in file names or file paths of a plurality of electronic files; and calculating the sensitivity score for the electronic file based in part on frequencies of the one or more matched words appearing in the file names or file paths of the plurality of electronic files.
8. The method as in any preceding claim, wherein obtaining the file metadata regarding an electronic file comprises:
receiving, at the traffic analysis service, the file metadata from an agent executed by an endpoint on which the electronic file is hosted.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: obtain file metadata regarding an electronic file in the network; determine a sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata; detect the electronic file within traffic in the network; cause performance of a mitigation action regarding the detection of the electronic file within the traffic, based on the sensitivity score of the electronic file.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein: the mitigation action comprises sending an alert to a user interface that identifies the electronic file and a sender of the traffic; and/or the traffic is encrypted, and wherein the apparatus detects the electronic file within traffic in the network by using a machine learning-based classifier to predict a plaintext data size of the traffic, and matching a file size of the electronic file to the predicted plaintext data size of the traffic; and/or the file metadata comprises user profile information associated with the electronic file; and/or the metadata comprises a file name or file path, and wherein the apparatus determines the sensitivity score for the electronic file by matching one or more words that appear in the file name or file path of the electronic file to words appearing in file names or file paths of a plurality of electronic files and calculating the sensitivity score for the electronic file based in part on frequencies of the one or more matched words appearing in the file names or file paths of the plurality of electronic files.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9 or 10, wherein: the apparatus determines the sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata by using a machine learning-based classifier to classify the file metadata, wherein the classifier is trained using a training dataset that comprises file metadata for a plurality of files that has been labeled with sensitivity scores; and/or the sensitivity score is determined further based on a frequency of the file appearing on endpoints across at least a portion of the network.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, 10 or 11, wherein the sensitivity score for the electronic file is determined based further on whether malware was detected on an endpoint on which the electronic file is hosted.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, 10, 11 or 12 wherein the apparatus obtains the file metadata regarding an electronic file by receiving the file metadata from an agent executed by an endpoint on which the electronic file is hosted.
14. A computer program product, such as a tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium, storing program instructions that cause a service that monitors a network to execute a process comprising: obtaining, by the service, file metadata regarding an electronic file; determining, by the service, a sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata; detecting, by the service, the electronic file within traffic in the network; causing, by the service, performance of a mitigation action regarding the detection of the electronic file within the traffic, based on the sensitivity score of the electronic file, optionally wherein determining the sensitivity score for the electronic file based on the file metadata comprises using a machine learning-based classifier to classify the file metadata, wherein the classifier is trained using a training dataset that comprises file metadata for a plurality of files that has been labeled with sensitivity scores.
15. A computer program product comprising instructions to cause a product to carry out the method of any of claims 1 to 8.
</claims>
</document>
