<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/22,G10L15/30,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HEE-JUNG
CHO, HYO-YOUNG
YOON, CHANG-BAE
YANG, HYUN-JIN
KIM, KYUNG-RAE
OH, SE-WON
CHA, JI-WON
KIM, JEONG-IN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65907674
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC DEVICE AND CONTROL METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device and a control method therefor are disclosed. The disclosed electronic device includes an input part, a communication part, a processor, and a memory, wherein the memory may include instructions for controlling the communication part such that the processor requests identification information including a call word for using an artificial intelligence assistant function to another electronic device when an event for requesting configuration of a first mode in which the artificial intelligence assistant function of the other electronic device can be used occurs, for controlling the communication part to receive the identification information from the other electronic device through the communication part in response to the request, and transmit a user command to the other electronic device based on the identification information if the user command is received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device comprising: an input part; a communication part; a processor; and a memory, wherein the memory includes instructions for the processor to: control the communication part to request identification information including a call word for using the artificial intelligence assistant function to the other electronic device based on an event for requesting configuration of a first mode in which an artificial intelligence assistant function of another electronic device can be used occurring, and receive the identification information from the other electronic device through the communication part in response to the request, and based on a user command being received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, transmit the user command to the other electronic device based on the identification information.
2. The electronic device of claim 1,
wherein the memory includes instructions for making the processor, based on an event for requesting configuration of the first mode occurring, change a first communication method of the communication part to a second communication method, and request the identification information to the other electronic device by using the second communication method.
3. The electronic device of claim 2,
wherein the memory includes instructions for making the processor, based on the identification information being received by using the second communication method, re-change the second communication method to the first communication method.
4. The electronic device of claim 1,
wherein the identification information includes at least one of the name of the artificial intelligence assistant, the account information of the artificial intelligence assistant, the name of the manufacturer manufacturing the artificial intelligence assistant, the URL information of the artificial intelligence assistant, or the name of the platform providing the artificial intelligence assistant.
5. The electronic device of claim 1,
wherein the memory controls the communication part such that the processor, based on a user command including the call word being received through the input part during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, transmits the user command to the other electronic device based on the identification information.
6. The electronic device of claim 1,
wherein the memory includes instructions for controlling the communication part such that the processor, during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, distinguishes an operation that the other electronic device will perform in a user command received by using the input part, generates the operation that the other electronic device will perform as a command including the identification information, and transmits the generated command to the other electronic device.
7. The electronic device of claim 1,
wherein the memory includes instructions for making the processor, based on a command for requesting termination of the first mode being received through the input part, delete the identification information and data received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant.
8. An electronic device comprising: a display; a communication part; a processor; and a memory, wherein the memory includes instructions for the processor to: control the display to display a user interface for requesting user identification for transmission of the identification information based on a signal for requesting transmission of identification information including a call word for using an artificial intelligence assistant function being received through the communication part, and control the communication part to transmit the identification information to another electronic device as a result of user identification through the user interface.
9. A control method for an electronic device comprising: detecting occurrence of an event for requesting configuration of a first mode wherein an artificial intelligence assistant function of another electronic device can be used; based on detecting occurrence of the event for requesting configuration of the first mode, requesting identification information including a call word for using the artificial intelligence assistant function to the other electronic device; receiving the identification information from the other electronic device in response to the request; and based on a user command being received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, transmitting a user command to the other electronic device based on the identification information.
10. The control method for an electronic device of claim 9, comprising:
based on detecting occurrence of the event for requesting configuration of the first mode, changing a first communication method of the communication part to a second communication method, and requesting the identification information to the other electronic device by using the second communication method.
11. The control method for an electronic device of claim 10,
wherein the control method comprises:
based on the identification information being received by using the second communication method, re-changing the second communication method to the first communication method.
12. The control method for an electronic device of claim 9,
wherein the identification information includes at least one of the name of the artificial intelligence assistant, the account information of the artificial intelligence assistant, the name of the manufacturer manufacturing the artificial intelligence assistant, or the name of the platform providing the artificial intelligence assistant.
13. The control method for an electronic device of claim 9,
wherein the control method comprises:
based on a user command including the call word being received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, transmitting the user command to the other electronic device based on the identification information.
14. The control method for an electronic device of claim 9,
wherein the control method comprises:
based on a user command being received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant, distinguishing an operation that the other electronic device will perform in the received user command, generating the operation that the other electronic device will perform as a command including the identification information, and transmitting the generated command to the other electronic device.
15. The control method for an electronic device of claim 9,
wherein the control method comprises:
based on a command for requesting termination of the first mode being received, deleting the identification information and data received during operation of the first mode of the artificial intelligence assistant.
</claims>
</document>
