<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B13/04,G08B13/08,G08B29/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARBONELLI, CECILIA
HOLLENBACH, ANDREA
MARSETZ, WALDEMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63449394
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR EVENT CLASSIFICATION BASED ON BAROMETRIC PRESSURE SENSOR DATA
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for event detection is provided. The apparatus comprises an error signal determiner (110) configured for determining an error signal portion depending on a pressure signal. The error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine a predicted signal portion depending on a first signal portion of the pressure signal. Moreover, the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the error signal portion depending on the predicted signal portion and depending on a second signal portion of the pressure signal, wherein the second signal portion of the pressure signal succeeds the first signal portion of the pressure signal in time. Moreover, the apparatus comprises a classifier (120) configured for determining, depending on the error signal portion, whether an event of a group of one or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for event detection, wherein the apparatus comprises: an error signal determiner (110) configured for determining an error signal portion depending on a pressure signal, wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine a predicted signal portion depending on a first signal portion of the pressure signal, and wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the error signal portion depending on the predicted signal portion and depending on a second signal portion of the pressure signal, wherein the second signal portion of the pressure signal succeeds the first signal portion of the pressure signal in time, and a classifier (120) configured for determining, depending on the error signal portion, whether an event of a group of one or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred.
2. An apparatus according to claim 1,
wherein said group is a group of two or more events,
wherein the classifier (120) is configured for determining, depending on the error signal portion, which event out of a group of two or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred.
3. An apparatus according to claim 2,
wherein the classifier (120) comprises a feature extraction module (121) and a classifier module (126; 127; 128),
wherein the feature extraction module (121) is configured to determine one or more features of the error signal portion, and
wherein the classifier module (126; 127; 128) is configured to determine, depending on the one or more features of the error signal, which event out of said group of two or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred,
wherein the one or more features comprise at least one of an absolute maximum of the error signal portion, a mean value of the error signal portion, a standard deviation of the error signal portion and a derivative of the error signal portion.
4. An apparatus according to claim 3,
wherein the one or more features comprise the absolute maximum of the error signal portion.
5. An apparatus according to claim 3 or 4,
wherein the classifier module (126; 127; 128) is configured to employ a linear discriminant analysis algorithm to determine, depending on the one or more features of the error signal, which event out of said group of two or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred.
6. An apparatus according to one of claims 2 to 5,
wherein a first event of the group of two or more events is a window opening, and
wherein a second event of the group of two or more events is a glass break.
7. An apparatus according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the error signal portion by subtracting the second signal portion from the predicted signal portion, or
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the error signal portion by subtracting the predicted signal portion depending on the second signal portion.
8. An apparatus according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the predicted signal portion by employing a neural network (113; 114), or
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the predicted signal portion by employing the neural network (113; 114), wherein said neural network is a long-short term memory network (114).
9. An apparatus according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the error signal portion further depending on information on weather conditions.
10. An apparatus according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the pressure signal is a preprocessed pressure signal,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the preprocessed pressure signal by preprocessing a pressure input signal,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to conduct preprocessing so that preprocessing comprises applying a highpass filter (161, 164) on the pressure input signal.
11. An apparatus according to claim 10,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to obtain a filtered pressure signal by applying the highpass filter (161) on the pressure input signal, and
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to conduct normalization on a first portion of the filtered pressure signal to obtain a first signal portion of the preprocessed pressure signal being said first signal portion (911) of the pressure signal.
12. An apparatus according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein a first window (901) indicates the first signal portion (911) of the pressure signal, said first signal portion (911) comprising a first predetermined number of pressure samples, wherein each of the pressure samples of the first signal portion (911) is assigned to a point in time out of a plurality of points in time so that the first signal portion (911) is assigned to a first time interval,
wherein a second window (902) indicates the second signal portion (912) of the pressure signal, said second signal portion (912) comprising a second predetermined number of pressure samples, wherein each of the pressure samples of the second signal portion (912) is assigned to a point in time out of the plurality of points in time so that the second signal portion (912) is assigned to a second time interval,
wherein the classifier (120) is configured for determining, depending on the error signal portion, whether the event of said group of one or more events has occurred during the second time interval or whether no event of said group has occurred during the second time interval,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured for shifting the first window (901) by a third predefined number of samples to obtain a first shifted window (903) which indicates a third signal portion (913) of the pressure signal, said third signal portion (913) comprising the first predetermined number of pressure samples, wherein each of the pressure samples of the third signal portion (913) is assigned to a point in time out of the plurality of points in time so that the third signal portion (913) is assigned to a third time interval,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured for shifting the second window (902) by the third predefined number of samples to obtain a second shifted window (904) which indicates a fourth signal portion (914) of the pressure signal, said fourth signal portion (914) comprising the second predetermined number of pressure samples, wherein each of the pressure samples of the fourth signal portion (914) is assigned to a point in time out of the plurality of points in time so that the fourth signal portion (914) is assigned to a fourth time interval, wherein one or more points in time of the fourth time interval are not comprised by the second time interval, wherein said one or more points in time succeed in time each of the points in time of the second time interval,
wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured for determining an further error signal portion depending on the pressure signal, wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine a further predicted signal portion depending on the third signal portion (913) of the pressure signal, and wherein the error signal determiner (110) is configured to determine the further error signal portion depending on the further predicted signal portion and depending on the fourth signal portion (914) of the pressure signal, wherein the fourth signal portion (914) of the pressure signal succeeds the third signal portion (913) of the pressure signal in time, and
wherein the classifier (120) is configured for determining, depending on the further error signal portion, whether the event of said group of one or more events has occurred during the fourth time interval or whether no event of said group has occurred during the fourth time interval.
13. An apparatus according to claim 12,
wherein the third predetermined number is smaller than or equal to a quarter of the second predetermined number,
wherein the second predetermined number is greater than or equal to 100, so that second signal portion comprises at least 100 pressure samples.
14. A method for event detection, wherein the method comprises: determining an error signal portion depending on a pressure signal, wherein determining the error signal portion comprises to determine a predicted signal portion depending on a first signal portion of the pressure signal, and wherein determining the error signal portion further comprises to determine the error signal portion depending on the predicted signal portion and depending on a second signal portion of the pressure signal, wherein the second signal portion of the pressure signal succeeds the first signal portion of the pressure signal in time, and determining, depending on the error signal portion, whether an event of a group of one or more events has occurred or whether no event of said group has occurred.
15. A computer program for implementing the method of claim 14 when being executed on a computer or signal processor.
</claims>
</document>
