<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H10/60,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, ZUOFENG
WEN, DONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64331863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD OF CLASSIFYING MEDICAL RECORDS
</title>

<abstract>
A method for organizing medical record data based on classification of a set of medical records in accordance with an indexing intervention event identified for each record, associated with a medical intervention. The method is based on extracting for each of a plurality of medical records one or more candidate intervention events, and then mapping these to a dataset (or ontology) of standard intervention event names (indexing intervention events) in order to identify a closest matching indexing event for each extracted intervention event. The mapping is based on breaking down each extracted intervention event into a set of characterizing attributes of particular domains or types and then comparing these with corresponding attribute sets for each of the indexing events in the dataset. A closest match is found, and each medical record is classified according to the closest matching indexing event. Data is then aggregated based on the classifications, and also based on information about a user, e.g. a particular clinical area of expertise.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of classifying medical records, comprising: obtaining (12) a plurality of medical records; processing (14) the medical records in accordance with a data extraction model to extract from each record one or more intervention events, each representative of a medical intervention; processing (16) each of the extracted intervention events in accordance with an algorithm to derive a representation of the event in terms of a set of characterizing attributes, the attributes comprising at least one attribute in each of a defined set of attribute domains; accessing a dataset of indexing intervention events, each associated in the dataset with a corresponding representation in terms of a set of attributes, including at least one falling into each of said defined set of attribute domains, and based on comparison (18) of the attributes of the extracted intervention events and the stored indexing intervention events, identifying (20) a closest matching indexing intervention event to each extracted intervention event; and classifying (22) each of the medical records in accordance with the indexing intervention event or events identified for that record; selecting (24) one of a plurality of indexing intervention events for use as a basis for aggregating the plurality of medical records, the selecting being based on information pertaining to a user; and aggregating (26) the classified plurality of medical records on the basis of the selected indexing intervention event.
2. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the defined set of attribute domains includes at least: an anatomical region to which the intervention event pertains, an intervention procedure to which the intervention event pertains, and a sub-type or category of said intervention procedure to which the intervention event pertains.
3. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the dataset of indexing intervention events comprises an ontology of the indexing intervention events, the ontology defining links between each of the indexing intervention events and the associated sets of attributes.
4. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the aggregating of the medical records comprises structuring the medical records into a hierarchical data structure, the hierarchical data structure comprising the obtained plurality of medical records grouped or sorted in accordance with the indexing event classification applied to each of the records.
5. A method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the hierarchical data structure has the obtained medical records further sorted, at a level subsidiary to that of the indexing event classification, according to a further attribute of the medical records.
6. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the further attribute comprises at least one of: a time-stamp of each medical record and a sub-category of the indexing event classification.
7. A method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the further attribute is extracted from each medical record using a natural language processing tool.
8. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises a training procedure for training the data extraction model, and the training procedure comprising selecting from the obtained plurality of medical records a subset of the medical records, inputting the selected subset of records to the model, and training the model for identifying a set of different indexing intervention events from the data contained in said subset of records.
9. A method as claimed in claim 8, wherein the training procedure comprises use of a Conditional Random Field or Convolution Neural Network.
10. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the medical records comprise text-based content linguistically representative of one or more intervention events, and wherein the data extraction model is configured to apply linguistic analysis methods for extracting the one or more intervention events.
11. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the information pertaining to the user comprises either identification information pertaining to the user, or information indicative of a clinical area of interest of the user.
12. A method as claimed in claim 1 or 11, wherein the selection of the indexing intervention event for performing the aggregation comprises querying a user database containing links between a plurality of users and one or more preferred indexing intervention events for each user.
13. A method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the method comprises selecting one of a plurality of stored data extraction models for performing the step of extracting the one or more intervention events, the data extraction model being selected based on information pertaining to a user.
14. A computer program comprising code means for implementing the method of claim 1 when said program is run on a computer.
15. A processing unit, the processing unit configured to: obtain a plurality of medical records; process the medical records in accordance with a data extraction model to extract from each record one or more intervention events, each representative of a medical intervention; process each of the extracted intervention events in accordance with an algorithm to derive a representation of the event in terms of a set of characterizing attributes, the attributes comprising at least one attribute in each of a defined set of attribute domains; access a dataset of indexing intervention events, each associated in the dataset with a corresponding representation in terms of a set of attributes, including at least one falling into each of said defined set of attribute domains, and based on comparison of the attributes of the extracted intervention events and the stored indexing intervention events, identify a closest matching indexing event to each extracted intervention event; and classify each of the medical records in accordance with the indexing intervention event or events identified for that record; select one of the indexing intervention events in the dataset for use as a basis for aggregating the plurality of medical records, the selecting being based on information pertaining to a user; and aggregate the classified plurality of medical records on the basis of the selected indexing intervention event.
</claims>
</document>
