<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B47/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BP EXPLORATION OPERATING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANGNES, TOMMY
THIRUVENKATANATHAN, PRADYUMNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60000581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DETECTING DOWNHOLE EVENTS USING ACOUSTIC FREQUENCY DOMAIN FEATURES
</title>

<abstract>
A system for detecting an event within a wellbore, the system comprising: a processor unit comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the processor unit is adapted for signal communication with a receiver, and wherein the memory comprises an analysis application. When executed on the processor, the analysis package configures the processor to:(a) receive, from the receiver, a signal comprising a plurality of different frequency domain features for a location in a wellbore, wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of an acoustic signal within the wellbore, and wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum at the location;(b) compare the plurality of frequency domain features with one or more event signatures, wherein the one or more event signatures comprise thresholds or ranges for each of the plurality of different frequency domain features;(c) determine that the plurality of frequency domain features match at least one event signature of the one or more event signatures;(d) determine the occurrence of at least one event at the location based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; and(e) generate an output of the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system (100) for detecting an event within a wellbore (114), the system comprising:
a processor unit (160) comprising a processor (168) and a memory (170), wherein the processor unit (160) is adapted for signal communication with a receiver (164), and wherein the memory (170) comprises an analysis application, that when executed on the processor (168), configures the processor (168) to: receive, from the receiver (164), a signal comprising a plurality of different frequency domain features for a location in a wellbore (114), wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of an acoustic signal within the wellbore (114), and wherein the frequency domain features are indicative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum at the location; compare the plurality of frequency domain features with one or more event signatures, wherein the one or more event signatures comprise thresholds or ranges for each of the plurality of different frequency domain features; determine that the plurality of frequency domain features match at least one event signature of the one or more event signatures; determine the occurrence of at least one event at the location based on the determination that the plurality of frequency domain features match the at least one event signature; and generate an output of the occurrence of the at least one event based on the determination.
2. A method of detecting an event within a wellbore (114), the method comprising: obtaining a sample data set, wherein the sample data set is a sample of an acoustic signal originating within a wellbore (114) comprising a fluid, and wherein the sample data set is representative of the acoustic signal across a frequency spectrum. determining a plurality of frequency domain features of the sample data set, wherein at least one frequency domain feature of the plurality of frequency domain features is determined for the acoustic signal across the frequency spectrum; comparing the plurality of frequency domain features with an event signature, wherein the event signature comprises a plurality of thresholds, ranges, or both corresponding to the plurality of frequency domain features; determining that the plurality of frequency domain features matches the thresholds, ranges, or both of the event signature; and determining the presence of the event within the wellbore (114) based on determining that the plurality of frequency domain features match the thresholds, ranges, or both of the event signature.
3. The method of claim 2 or system of claim 1, wherein the event or the one or more events comprise at least one of: a gas leak from a subterranean formation (102) into an annulus (119) in the wellbore (114), a gas inflow from the subterranean formation (102) into the wellbore (114), sand ingress into the wellbore (114), a liquid inflow into the wellbore (114), sand transport within a tubular (120) in the wellbore (114), fluid flow past a sand plug in a tubular (120) in the wellbore (114), fluid flow behind a casing (112), a self-induced hydraulic fracture within the subterranean formation (102), a fluid leak past a downhole seal, or a rock fracture propagation event.
4. The method or system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more frequency domain features comprise a spectral centroid, a spectral spread, a spectral roll-off, a spectral skewness, an RMS band energy, a total RMS energy, a spectral flatness, a spectral slope, a spectral kurtosis, a spectral flux, or a spectral autocorrelation function.
5. The method or system of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a gas leak signature, wherein the gas leak signature is indicative of a gas leak from a formation (102) in the wellbore (114) through a leak path, and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the gas leak from the formation (102) to the annulus (119) in the wellbore (114).
6. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a gas influx signature, wherein the gas influx signature is indicative of a gas inflow from a formation (102) into the wellbore (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the gas influx from the formation (102) to the wellbore (114).
7. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a liquid inflow signature, wherein the liquid inflow signature is indicative of a liquid inflow from a formation (102) into the wellbore (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the liquid inflow from the formation (102) to the wellbore (114).
8. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a sand transport signature, wherein the sand transport signature is indicative of sand flowing within a carrier fluid within the wellbore (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the sand transport within the wellbore (114).
9. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a sand restriction signature, wherein the sand restriction signature is indicative of a liquid flow past a sand restriction in a tubular (120) within the wellbore (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the sand restriction in the tubular (120).
10. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a casing fluid flow signature, wherein the casing fluid flow signature is indicative of a fluid flow between a casing (112) and a formation (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the fluid flow between the casing (112) and the formation (114).
11. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a self-induced hydraulic fracturing, wherein the self-induced hydraulic fracturing signature is indicative of a formation of a self-induced fracture within a formation (102), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the formation of the self-induced hydraulic fracture.
12. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a fluid leak signature, wherein the fluid leak signature is indicative of a liquid flow past a downhole plug within the wellbore (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the liquid flow past the downhole plug within the wellbore (114).
13. The method or system of any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the event signature or the one or more event signatures comprise a fracturing signature, wherein the fracturing signature is indicative of a formation of a fracturing within a formation (114), and wherein the determination of the occurrence of the event or the at least one event comprises a determination of the formation of the fracture.
14. The method of any one of claims 2 to 13, further comprising: reducing a size of the sample data set by at least 1000 times before comparing the at least one spectral characteristic of the one or more frequency domain features with the event signature.
15. The method of any one of claims 2 to 14, wherein obtaining the sample data set comprises: passing a light pulse into a fiber optic cable (162), wherein the fiber optic cable (162) is disposed in the wellbore (114); receiving a reflection from the light pulse; and processing the reflection to generate the sample data set.
</claims>
</document>
