<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACER CYBER SECURITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HSU, YIN-HSONG
HUANG, CHIUNG-YING
JHANG, ZONG-CYUAN
LI, CHIEN-HUNG
LI, CHUN-HSIEN
SUN, MING-KUNG
TSAI, TSUNG-HSIEN
WU, JUN-MEIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65812050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DETECTING ABNORMAL OPERATION OF OPERATING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting abnormality adapted to detect abnormal operations of an operating system is provided. The method includes: calculating a safe range of usage of the operating system during one or more time periods according to a historical data stream; calculating abnormal ratios corresponding to the one or more time periods according to a current data stream and the safe range of usage; selecting one or more abnormal time periods from the one or more time periods according to a threshold and the abnormal ratios; calculating an abnormal indicator for each of the one or more abnormal time periods according to the historical data stream and the current data stream; and ranking the one or more abnormal time periods according to the abnormal indicator(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting abnormality, adapted to detect abnormal operations of an operating system, characterized in that the method comprising: calculating a safe range of usage of the operating system during one or more time periods according to a historical data stream (S210); calculating abnormal ratios corresponding to the one or more time periods according to a current data stream and the safe range of usage (S220); selecting one or more abnormal time periods from the one or more time periods according to a threshold and the abnormal ratios (S230); calculating an abnormal indicator for each of the one or more abnormal time periods according to the historical data stream and the current data stream (S240); and ranking the one or more abnormal time periods according to the abnormal indicator (S250).
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the historical data stream comprises a historical usage and a historical degree of change of the operating system during the one or more time periods, and the current data stream comprises a current usage of the operating system during the one or more time periods.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of calculating the safe range of usage of the operating system during the one or more time periods according to the historical data stream (S240) comprises:
calculating the safe range of usage according to the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and a tolerance coefficient during the one or more time periods.
4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising: adjusting the tolerance coefficient during the one or more time periods based on the one or more time periods being a holiday.
5. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of calculating the abnormal ratios corresponding to the one or more time periods according to the current data stream and the safe range of usage (S220) comprises:
calculating the abnormal ratios based on a proportion of the current usage corresponding to one or more operation features in the safe range of usage.
6. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of calculating the abnormal indicator for each of the one or more abnormal time periods according to the historical data stream and the current data stream (S240) comprises: calculating a first abnormal degree corresponding to a first time interval based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to a first abnormal time period (S241); calculating a second abnormal degree corresponding to the first time interval based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to a second abnormal time period (S243); and calculating the abnormal indicator based on the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree (S245), wherein the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree are included in the one or more abnormal time periods.
7. The method according to claim 2, wherein the step of calculating the abnormal indicator for each of the one or more abnormal time periods according to the historical data stream and the current data stream (S240) comprises: calculating a first abnormal degree corresponding to a first operation feature based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change and the current usage corresponding to a first abnormal time period (S341); calculating a second abnormal degree corresponding to a second operation feature based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change and the current usage corresponding to the first abnormal time period (S434); and calculating the abnormal indicator based on the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree (S345).
8. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: representing the current usage and the historical usage by one of an average and a median; and representing the historical degree of change by one of a standard deviation and a variance.
9. The method according to claim 2, wherein the historical usage and the current usage correspond to one or more operation features, and the one or more operation features are associated with at least one of: a number of logins to the operating system, times of internet protocol address being accessed by the operating system, and a number of ports used by the operating system.
10. A device (10) for detecting abnormality, adapted to detect abnormal operations of an operating system, the device (10) comprising: a storage unit (300), storing a plurality of modules (310, 330, 350); and a processing unit (100), coupled to the storage unit (300), and configured to access and execute the plurality of modules (310, 330, 350) stored by the storage unit (300), the modules (310, 330, 350) comprising: a database (310), storing a historical data stream; a recording module (330), recording a current data stream; and an abnormality detection module (350), configured for: calculating a safe range of usage of the operating system during one or more time periods according to the historical data stream; calculating abnormal ratios corresponding to the one or more time periods according to the current data stream and the safe range of usage; selecting one or more abnormal time periods from the one or more time periods according to a threshold and the abnormal ratios; calculating an abnormal indicator for each of the one or more abnormal time periods according to the historical data stream and the current data stream; and ranking the one or more abnormal time periods according to the abnormal indicator.
11. The device (10) according to claim 10, wherein the historical data stream comprises a historical usage and a historical degree of change of the operating system during the one or more time periods, and the current data stream comprises a current usage of the operating system during the one or more time periods.
12. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for:
calculating the safe range of usage according to the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and a tolerance coefficient during the one or more time periods.
13. The device (10) according to claim 12, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for:
adjusting the tolerance coefficient during the one or more time periods based on the one or more time periods being a holiday.
14. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for:
calculating the abnormal ratios based on a proportion of the current usage corresponding to one or more operation features in the safe range of usage.
15. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for: calculating a first abnormal degree corresponding to a first time interval based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to a first abnormal time period; calculating a second abnormal degree corresponding to the first time interval based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to a second abnormal time period; and calculating the abnormal indicator based on the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree, wherein the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree are included in the one or more abnormal time periods.
16. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for: calculating a first abnormal degree corresponding to a first operation feature based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to a first abnormal time period; calculating a second abnormal degree corresponding to a second operation feature based on the historical usage, the historical degree of change, and the current usage corresponding to the first abnormal time period; and calculating the abnormal indicator based on the first abnormal degree and the second abnormal degree.
17. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the abnormality detection module (350) is further configured for: representing the current usage and the historical usage by one of an average and a median; and representing the historical degree of change by one of a standard deviation and a variance.
18. The device (10) according to claim 11, wherein the historical usage and the current usage correspond to one or more operation features, and the one or more operation features are associated with at least one of: a number of logins to the operating system, times of internet protocol address accessed by the operating system and a number of ports used by the operating system.
</claims>
</document>
