<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06Q30/02,H04N21/431,H04N21/466,H04N21/475,H04N21/81
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, GI HOON
PARK, JEUNG HYUNG
KWON, JAEOOK
KOO, JA YOON
PARK, CHANGKUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66332422
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE DISPLAY DEVICE AND OPERATION METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
According to an embodiment, an image display device includes: a display; a memory storing one or more instructions; and a processor executing the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions: to determine whether it is a recommended time for outputting advertisement content, from a user's log data, based on a first trained model using one or more neural networks; to determine a recommended attribute of an advertisement display region from the user's log data, based on a second trained model using the one or more neural networks, when it is determined that it is the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content; and to adjust an attribute of the advertisement display region based on the determined recommended attribute and control the display to output the advertisement content in the attribute-adjusted advertisement display region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image display device comprising: a display; a memory storing one or more instructions; and a processor executing the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions: to determine whether it is a recommended time for outputting advertisement content, from a user's log data, based on a first trained model using one or more neural networks; to determine a recommended attribute of an advertisement display region from the user's log data, based on a second trained model using the one or more neural networks, when it is determined that it is the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content; and to adjust an attribute of the advertisement display region based on the determined recommended attribute and control the display to output the advertisement content in the attribute-adjusted advertisement display region.
2. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the attribute of the advertisement display region includes at least one of a position, size, or form of the advertisement display region and a form of the advertisement content output in the advertisement display region.
3. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the user's log data includes at least one of viewing history information, the user's reaction information about the advertisement display region, and application use information.
4. The image display device of claim 3, wherein the viewing history information includes at least one of channels viewed by the user, program names, viewing times, information indicating occurrence of a channel zapping event, and information indicating occurrence of an event related to an electronic program guide (EPG),
the user's reaction information about the advertisement display region includes at least one of whether the advertisement content output in the advertisement display region has been viewed, a proportion of a viewed portion in the advertisement content, and information indicating whether an external input for selecting the advertisement display region has been received, and
the application use information includes at least one of a name of an application used, an application use time, a category of an application used, and an application use frequency.
5. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions to determine whether it is the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content, in response to a user input generating one of a channel zapping event, an electronic program guide (EPG) search event, and an application execution event.
6. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the first trained model is determined by learning a correlation between the user's log data and the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content, in response to input of the user's log data to the one or more neural networks, and
the second trained model is determined by learning a correlation between the user's log data and the recommended attribute of the advertisement display region in response to input of the user's log data to the one or more neural networks.
7. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions to stop outputting the advertisement content when it is determined that it is not the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content.
8. The image display device of claim 7, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions to deactivate the advertisement display region when it is determined that it is not the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content.
9. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content is determined differently according to a user's concentration on broadcast content that is being output through the display.
10. The image display device of claim 1, wherein the processor executes the one or more instructions: to generate, in response to a user input generating an event about the image display device, log data corresponding to the generated event; and to update at least one of the first trained model and the second trained model when the generated log data is input to the one or more neural networks.
11. An image display method comprising: determining whether it is a recommended time for outputting advertisement content, from a user's log data, based on a first trained model using one or more neural networks; determining a recommended attribute of an advertisement display region from the user's log data, based on a second trained model using the one or more neural networks, when it is determined that it is the recommended time for outputting the advertisement content; and adjusting an attribute of the advertisement display region based on the determined recommended attribute and outputting the advertisement content in the attribute-adjusted advertisement display region.
12. The image display method of claim 11, wherein the attribute of the advertisement display region includes at least one of a location, size, or form of the advertisement display region and a form of the advertisement content output in the advertisement display region.
13. The image display method of claim 11, wherein the user's log data includes at least one of viewing history information, the user's reaction information about the advertisement display region, and application use information.
14. The image display method of claim 13, wherein the viewing history information includes at least one of channels viewed by the user, program names, viewing times, information indicating occurrence of a channel zapping event, and information indicating occurrence of an event related to an electronic program guide (EPG),
the user's reaction information about the advertisement display region includes at least one of whether the advertisement content output in the advertisement display region has been viewed, a proportion of a viewed portion in the advertisement content, and information indicating whether an external input for selecting the advertisement display region has been received, and
the application use information includes at least one of a name of an application used, an application use time, a category of an application used, and an application use frequency.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon a program for implementing the image display method of claim 11.
</claims>
</document>
