<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, YUANZHANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66944189
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE WARPING METHOD AND DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
The present application provides an image warping method and an image warping device, including: obtaining an image or a video; identifying at least one target portion of a to-be-warped portrait in the image or the video; and performing a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm, where the warping process includes one or more of the following processes: enlarging, narrowing down, or shifting. In this way, a portrait in the image or the video can be beautified automatically, without a manual beautification of the image from a user, making the beautification more intelligent and simpler, thereby improving the user experience. Moreover, according to the method of the present application, a warping process can be performed on an image or a video online in real time, or performed on a stored image or a stored video offline, allowing the image warping method to be more widely used.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image warping method, comprising: obtaining (S101) an image or a video; identifying (S102) at least one target portion of a to-be-warped portrait in the image or the video; and performing (S103) a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm, wherein the warping process comprises one or more of the following processes: enlarging, narrowing down, or shifting.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the identifying (S102) at least one target portion of a to-be-warped portrait in the image or the video comprises: identifying the to-be-warped portrait in the image or in each frame or a key frame of the video; extracting contour points of the target portion of the to-be-warped portrait; and wherein the performing (S103) a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm comprises:
performing the warping process using the warping algorithm on a region where the contour points of the target portion are located.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the identifying (S102) at least one target portion of a to-be-warped portrait in the image or the video comprises: identifying the to-be-warped portrait in the image or in each frame or a key frame of the video; and dividing the to-be-warped portrait to obtain the target portion.
4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the performing (S103) a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm comprises: dividing the image or the video into a two-dimensional grid; performing a warping calculation on pixel points located at vertices of the two-dimensional grid in the target portion by using the warping algorithm to obtain position information of the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid after warping; performing, according to position information of the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid before and after the warping, an interpolation calculation on other pixel points other than the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid in the target portion to obtain position information of the other pixel points after the warping; and filling a position after the warping with a pixel value of each pixel point of the target portion.
5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein when performing a process of narrowing down on the target portion in the image, the method further comprises: separating a portrait and a background area in the image by using a background segmentation technology; filling a blank area formed after the narrowing down of the target portion according to a pixel value of the background area; or performing a warping process on the background area using the warping algorithm to enlarge the background area, wherein the enlarged area is used to fill the blank area formed after the narrowing down of the target portion.
6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein when performing a process of narrowing down on the target portion in the video, the method further comprises: separating a portrait and a background area of each frame of image in a plurality of frames of image comprised in the video by using a background segmentation technology; filling a blank area formed after the narrowing down of the target portion according to a pixel value of the background area of the plurality of frames of image; or performing a warping process on the background area of each frame of image using the warping algorithm to enlarge the background area of each frame of image, wherein the enlarged area is used to fill the blank area formed after the narrowing down of the target portion.
7. The method according to claim 2, wherein before the performing the warping process using the warping algorithm on a region where the contour points of the target portion are located, the method further comprises:
performing a smoothing process on contour points of a same target portion extracted from a plurality of frames of image comprised in the video.
8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein after the performing (S103) a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm, the method further comprises:
performing a smoothing process on a warping result of a same target portion in a plurality of frames of image comprised in the video.
9. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the obtaining (S101) an image or a video comprises: shooting the image or the video using a camera; or obtaining the image or the video from a storage space.
10. An image warping device, comprising: an obtaining module (11), configured to obtain an image or a video; an identifying module (12), configured to identify at least one target portion of a to-be-warped portrait in the image or the video; and a warping module (13), configured to perform a warping process on the target portion using a preset warping algorithm, wherein the warping process comprises one or more of the following processes: enlarging, narrowing down, or shifting.
11. The device according to claim 10, wherein the identifying module (12) is configured to: identify the to-be-warped portrait in the image or in each frame or a key frame of the video; extract contour points of the target portion of the to-be-warped portrait; and the warping module (13) is configured to:
perform the warping process using the warping algorithm on a region where the contour points of the target portion are located.
12. The device according to claim 10, wherein the identifying module (12) is configured to: identify the to-be-warped portrait in the image or in each frame or a key frame of the video; and divide the to-be-warped portrait to obtain the target portion.
13. The device according to any one of claims 10 to 12, wherein the warping module (13) is configured to: divide the image or the video into a two-dimensional grid; perform a warping calculation on pixel points located at vertices of the two-dimensional grid in the target portion by using the warping algorithm to obtain position information of the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid after warping; perform, according to position information of the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid before and after the warping, an interpolation calculation on other pixel points other than the pixel points at the vertices of the two-dimensional grid in the target portion to obtain position information of the other pixel points after the warping; fill a position after the warping with a pixel value of each pixel point of the target portion.
14. An electronic device, comprising a processor (21), a memory (22) and a transceiver (23), wherein the memory (22) is configured to store instructions, the transceiver (23) is configured to communicate with a further device, and the processor (21) is configured to execute the instructions stored in the memory (22) to cause the electronic device to perform the method according to any one of claims 1 to 9.
15. A computer readable storage medium, wherein the computer readable storage medium stores instructions that, when executed, cause a computer to perform the method according to any one of claims 1 to 9.
</claims>
</document>
