<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F03D17/00,F03D7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS GAMESA RENEWABLE ENERGY
</assignee>

<docdb_family_id>
67439029
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A METHOD AND AN APPARATUS FOR COMPUTER-IMPLEMENTED MONITORING OF ONE OR MORE WIND TURBINES IN A WIND FARM
</title>

<abstract>
A method and an apparatus for computer-implemented monitoring of one or more wind turbines in a wind farmThe invention refers to a method for computer-implemented monitoring of one or more wind turbines (1) in a wind farm, each wind turbine (1) having a rotor (4) with rotor blades (5) which are rotatable by wind around a rotor axis (R), wherein one or several times during the operation of the wind farm a process is performed comprising the following steps for a respective rotor blade (5) of one or more rotor blades (5) of a respective wind turbine (1) of the one or more wind turbines (1):i) obtaining a digital image (IM) of the respective rotor blade (5), the image (IM) being a current image taken by a camera (7) looking at the respective rotor blade (5);ii) determining one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) by processing the image (IM) by a trained data driven model (MO), where the image (IM) is fed as a digital input to the trained data driven model (MO) and the trained data driven model (MO) provides the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) as a digital output.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for computer-implemented monitoring of one or more wind turbines (1) in a wind farm, each wind turbine (1) having a rotor (4) with rotor blades (5) which are rotatable by wind around a rotor axis (R), wherein one or several times during the operation of the wind farm a process is performed comprising the following steps for a respective rotor blade (5) of one or more rotor blades (5) of a respective wind turbine (1) of the one or more wind turbines (1): i) obtaining a digital image (IM) of the respective rotor blade (5), the image (IM) being a current image taken by a camera (7) looking at the respective rotor blade (5); ii) determining one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) by processing the image (IM) by a trained data driven model (MO), where the image (IM) is fed as a digital input to the trained data driven model (MO) and the trained data driven model (MO) provides the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) as a digital output.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the trained data driven model (MO) is a neural network, preferably a Convolutional Neural Network.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein an information based on the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) is output via a user interface (UI).
4. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) comprise one or more of the following characteristics: - at least one root bending moment (BM) acting on the respective rotor blade (5), particularly an edge-wise root bending moment and/or a flap-wise root bending moment; - a deflection (DE) of the tip of the respective rotor blade (5), where preferably the wind speed is determined by the deflection; - a twist (TW) of the respective rotor blade (5).
5. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the camera (7) is installed on the nacelle (3) of the respective wind turbine (1) for which the process is performed.
6. The method according to one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the camera (7) is installed on the rotor hub (6) of the respective wind turbine (1) for which the process is performed.
7. The method according to one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the camera (7) is installed on another wind turbine (3) than the respective wind turbine (1) for which the process is performed, where the camera (7) preferably looks at the respective rotor blade (5) in a direction substantially perpendicular to the rotor axis (R) of the respective wind turbine (1).
8. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the angular position of the respective rotor blade (5) around the rotor axis (R) at the time of taking the image (IM) is fed as an additional input to the data driven model (MO) .
9. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein in step i) several images (IM) of the respective rotor blade (5) taken by the camera (7) are processed, where the image (IM) having the best image quality according to one or more quality criteria is chosen as the image (IM) being obtained.
10. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein the process is performed for several rotor blades (5) of the respective wind turbine (1), where rotor blades (5) are identified which have one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) with a deviation from the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the other rotor blades (5) higher than a predetermined threshold.
11. The method according to one of the preceding claims, wherein a gust with corresponding gust wind speed is detected based on the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of at least one rotor blade (5) of the respective wind turbine (1) for which the process is performed.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the control of a wind turbine (2) located downstream with respect to the wind direction relative to the respective turbine (1) for which the process is performed is adapted in dependence on the gust wind speed.
13. An apparatus for computer-implemented monitoring of one or more wind turbines (1) in a wind farm, each wind turbine (1) having a rotor (4) with rotor blades (5) which are rotatable by wind around a rotor axis (R), wherein the apparatus (8) comprises a processor (PR) configured to perform one or several times during the operation of the wind farm a process comprising the following steps for a respective rotor blade (5) of one or more rotor blades (5) of a respective wind turbine (1) of the one or more wind turbines (1): i) obtaining a digital image (IM) of the respective rotor blade (5), the image (IM) being a current image taken by a camera (7) looking at the respective rotor blade (5); ii) determining one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) by processing the image (IM) by a trained data driven model (MO), where the image (IM) is fed as a digital input to the trained data driven model (MO) and the trained data driven model (MO) provides the one or more operation characteristics (BM, DE, TW) of the respective rotor blade (5) as a digital output.
14. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the apparatus (8) is configured to perform a method according to one of claims 2 to 12.
15. A wind farm comprising a number of wind turbines (1, 2, 3), wherein the wind farm comprises an apparatus (8) according to claim 13 or 14.
16. A computer program product with program code, which is stored on a non-transitory machine-readable carrier, for carrying out a method according to one of claims 1 to 12 when the program code is executed on a computer.
17. A computer program with program code for carrying out a method according to one of claims 1 to 12 when the program code is executed on a computer.
</claims>
</document>
