<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16C20/30,G16C20/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAYER
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE ZOETE, Jacob Coenraad
SCHLUETER, Thorsten
BRAUN, Inka Valeska
JENSEN, Markus
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66439932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DRUG CANDIDATE SAFETY PREDICTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention deals with the prediction of a safety score for a drug candidate. The present invention provides a method, a computer system, and a computer program product for the prediction of a safety score for a drug candidate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method comprising the steps of: - receiving a chemical structure of a test chemical compound, - determining a plurality of predictor values from the chemical structure of the test chemical compound, - generating a feature vector from the plurality of predictor values, - supplying the feature vector to a machine learning prediction model, the machine learning prediction model being trained with a first plurality of feature vectors and a second plurality of feature vectors, the first plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which have failed in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue, the second plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which passed a non-oncological clinical trial without any safety issue, - receiving from the machine learning prediction model a safety score, the safety score representing a probability of the test chemical compound failing in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue. - outputting the safety score.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the feature vector is generated solely from the chemical structure of the test chemical compound.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the prediction model is trained and validated solely with data from past non-oncological clinical trials.
4. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the first plurality of feature vectors is determined solely from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which have failed in a non-oncological phase I, phase II and/or phase III clinical trial due to a safety issue.
5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein the second plurality of feature vectors is determined solely from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which, up to the time the prediction model is trained, have never failed in a non-oncological phase I, phase II, and phase III clinical trial due to a safety issue.
6. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the prediction model assigns the test chemical compound to one of a pre-defined number of classes, wherein the pre-defined number of classes comprises at least two classes, a first class comprising reference chemical compounds which failed in a phase I, phase II and/or phase III non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue and a second class comprising reference chemical compounds which passed a non-oncological phase I, phase II and/or phase III clinical trial.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the prediction model assigns the test chemical compound to one of a pre-defined number of classes, wherein the pre-defined number of classes comprises at least two classes, a first class consisting of reference chemical compounds which failed in a non-oncological phase I or phase II or phase III clinical trial due to a safety issue and a second class consisting of reference chemical compounds which passed a phase I and phase II and phase III non-oncological clinical trial.
8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein the safety score is a number in the range of 0 to 1, wherein the number 0 indicates that the test chemical compound will pass one or more non-oncological clinical trials, the number 1 indicates that the test chemical compound will fail in one or more non-oncological clinical trials due to a safety issue, and any number between 0 and 1 indicates a probability of the test chemical compound failing in one or more non-oncological clinical trials.
9. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 8, wherein the prediction model is or comprises an artificial neural network.
10. A computer system comprising - an input unit, - one or more predictor value generation unit(s), - a feature vector generation unit, - a prediction unit, and - an output unit,
wherein the input unit is configured to receive a chemical structure of a test chemical compound, wherein the one or more predictor value generation unit(s) is/are configured to determine a plurality of predictor values from the chemical structure of the test chemical compound,
wherein the feature vector generation unit is configured to generate a feature vector from the plurality of predictor values,
wherein the prediction unit is configured to determine a safety score from the feature vector using a machine learning prediction model, - the machine learning prediction model being trained with a first plurality of feature vectors and a second plurality of feature vectors, the first plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which have failed in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue, the second plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which passed a non-oncological clinical trial without any safety issue, - the safety score representing a probability of the test chemical compound failing in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue. wherein the output unit is configured to output the safety score.
11. The computer system according to claim 10, wherein the machine learning prediction model is trained with a first plurality of feature vectors and a second plurality of feature vectors, the first plurality of feature vectors being determined solely from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which have failed in a phase I or phase II or phase III non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue, the second plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which passed a phase I and phase II and phase III non-oncological clinical trial without any safety issue.
12. The computer system according to claim 10 or 11, wherein the feature vector generation unit is configured to generate the feature vector solely from the plurality of predictor values from the chemical structure of the test chemical compound.
13. A computer program product comprising program code which can be loaded into a memory of a computer and causes the computer to execute the following steps: - receiving a chemical structure of a test chemical compound, - determining a plurality of predictor values from the chemical structure of the test chemical compound, - generating a feature vector from the plurality of predictor values - supplying the feature vector to a machine learning prediction model, the machine learning prediction model being trained with a first plurality of feature vectors and a second plurality of feature vectors, the first plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which have failed in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue, the second plurality of feature vectors being determined from chemical structures of reference chemical compounds which passed a non-oncological clinical trial without any safety issue, - receiving from the machine learning prediction model a safety score, the safety score representing a probability of the test chemical compound failing in a non-oncological clinical trial due to a safety issue. - outputting the safety score.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the program code causes the computer to execute one or more steps of the method of any one of the claims 1 to 9.
</claims>
</document>
