<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEINRICH, ADRIENNE
DESPENIC, MARIJA
YUAN, Zhaorui
WANG, Lu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67303362
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING IMAGE-BASED FOOD QUANTITY ESTIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a computer-implemented method for performing image-based food quantity estimation. The method comprises acquiring (202) a first image, wherein the first image depicts a food item and a body part of a first user; detecting (204), based on the acquired first image, a first physical attribute of the body part of the first user; identifying (206), based on the acquired first image, the depicted food item; and estimating (208) a quantity of the food item depicted in the acquired first image based on the identified food item and the detected first physical attribute of the body part of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for performing image-based food quantity estimation, the method comprising: acquiring (202) a first image, wherein the first image depicts a food item and a body part of a first user; detecting (204), based on the acquired first image, a first physical attribute of the body part of the first user; identifying (206), based on the acquired first image, the depicted food item; and estimating (208) a quantity of the food item depicted in the acquired first image based on the identified food item and the detected first physical attribute of the body part of the user.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising: acquiring, for each of a plurality of users, one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user; associating, for each of the plurality of users, the acquired one or more physical attributes of the body part with a user profile of the respective user in a user profile database; identifying the first user by comparing the detected first physical attribute of the body part of the first user with the corresponding type of physical attribute of the body part of the plurality of users stored in the user profile database; and retrieving a second physical attribute of the body part of the first user from the user profile of the first user, wherein estimating (208) the quantity of the food item is further based on the retrieved second physical attribute of the body part of the first user.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 2, wherein acquiring one of more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user comprises: providing, at a touch screen display device, a virtual user interface including an interactive visual tool configured to allow the user to measure the one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user; receiving a user input via the virtual user interface, wherein the user input corresponds to a placement of at least a part of the body part at the touch screen display device; and determining the one or more physical attributes of the body part based on the received user input.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 2 or claim 3, wherein acquiring one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user comprises: acquiring a second image depicting the body part of the respective user; detecting, from the acquired second image, a first image descriptor feature associated with the body part of the respective user; and determining the one or more physical attributes based on the detected first image descriptor feature.
5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4, further comprising: acquiring one or more manually-measured physical attributes of the body part of the respective user; comparing each of the one or more determined physical attributes respectively with the corresponding one or more manually-measured physical attributes; and confirming or updating the value of the one or more physical attributes of the body part based on results of the comparison.
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4 or claim 5, further comprising performing the following steps for at least one of the plurality of users: acquiring one or more third images depicting the body part of the respective user; performing image processing of the acquired one or more third images depicting the body part of the respective user to obtain a second image descriptor feature associated with the body part of the respective user, wherein the image processing is performed based on comparison between image pixels of the one or more third images; determining, based on the second image descriptor feature of the one or more third images, the one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user which correspond to the acquired one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user; calibrating the acquired one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user based on comparison between the acquired one or more physical attributes and the one or more physical attributes determined based on the second image descriptor feature; and updating, based on results of the calibration, the one or more physical attributes of the body part associated with the user profile of the respective user.
7. The computer-implemented method according to claim 6, wherein a plurality of third images depicting the body part of the respective user are acquired, and a plurality of types of image descriptor features are obtained for each of the plurality of third images, and wherein acquiring one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user further comprises: determining a degree of certainty of a type of image descriptor features by comparing types of image descriptor features of each of the plurality of third images; and selecting the type of image descriptor feature with a highest degree of certainty, wherein determining the one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user is based on one or more image descriptor features which correspond to the selected type of image descriptor feature with the highest degree of certainty.
8. The computer-implemented method according to any one of claims 2 to 7, wherein acquiring the one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user comprises: acquiring one or more physical characteristics of the respective user, wherein the one or more physical characteristics comprises at least one of: the gender of the respective user, the age of the respective user, the height of the respective user, and the weight of the respective user; and determining the one or more physical attributes of the body part of the respective user based on the one or more physical characteristics of the respective user.
9. The computer-implemented method according any one of the preceding claims, further comprising performing image processing on the first image to extract image pixels corresponding to the depicted food item, wherein estimating (208) the quantity of the food item is based on comparison between the extracted image pixels corresponding to the depicted food item.
10. The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising acquiring a camera angle at which the first image is taken, wherein estimating (208) the quantity of the depicted food item is further based on the acquired camera angle.
11. The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising: acquiring a supplementary image depicting the body part of the first user, wherein the supplementary image is taken at a different camera angle from that of the first image; performing, based on the supplementary image, detection of the first physical attribute of the body part of the first user; and updating the value of the first physical attribute of the body part of the first user based on comparison between the result of the detection based on the first image and the result of the detection based on the supplementary image.
12. The computer-implemented method according to any one of the preceding claims, further comprising determining a characteristic associated with the quantity of the food item depicted in the first image, based on the estimated quantity of the food item.
13. The computer-implemented method according to claim 12, wherein the characteristic associated with the quantity of the food item is one of: an amount of dietary energy in the food item, an amount of protein in the food item, an amount of carbohydrate in the food item, an amount of mineral in the food item, an amount of vitamins in the food item, an amount of dietary fiber in the food item, and an amount of sugar in the food item.
14. A computer program comprising a computer readable medium, the computer readable medium having computer readable code embodied therein, the computer readable code being configured such that, on execution by a suitable computer or processor, the computer or processor is caused to perform the method as claimed in any one of the preceding claims.
15. An apparatus (100) for performing image-based food quantity estimation, the apparatus comprising a processor (102) configured to: acquire a first image, wherein the first image depicts a food item and a body part of a first user; detect, based on the acquired first image, a first physical attribute of the body part of the first user; identify, based on the acquired first image, the depicted food item; and estimate a quantity of the food item depicted in the acquired first image based on the identified food item and the detected first physical attribute of the body part of the user.
</claims>
</document>
