<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROBERT BOSCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
Munoz Delgado, Andres Mauricio
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66655197
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TRAINING A GENERATIVE ADVERSARIAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A training system and computer-implemented training method are described for training a generative adversarial network (GAN). In the training, explanatory information may be provided to the generative part (G) which identifies on which basis the discriminative part arrives at its classification. In particular, this explanatory information may be provided in the form of an attention mask (s) which may be generated by the discriminatory part (D) and which may identify parts of a respective input instance which contribute to the classification of the respective input instance by the discriminative part. Furthermore, a data synthesis system and computer-implemented method are described for synthesizing data using the generative part of the trained generative adversarial network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A training system (100) for training a generative adversarial network, the training system comprising: - an input interface (120) configured to access: - generative model data (142) defining a generative adversarial network comprising a generative part (G) and a discriminative part (D), - training data (144) for the generative adversarial network;
wherein the discriminative part (D) is configured to discriminate between input instances originating from the generative part (G) and the training data and to output a classification and an attention mask (s) identifying parts of a respective input instance which contribute to the classification of the respective input instance by the discriminative part (D),
wherein the generative part (G) is configured to receive the attention mask (s) as input and to generate synthesized output instances from i) noisy samples (z) drawn from a latent space and ii) the attention mask (s); and - a processor subsystem (160) configured to iteratively train the generative adversarial network based on the training data by establishing an inner iterative loop (200) in the iterative training in which parameters of the generative part (G) are trained by iteratively minimizing a loss function for the generative part (G), wherein minimizing the loss function comprises maximizing a mutual information term included in the loss function which represents mutual information between: - a current attention mask (s) of the discriminative part (D), wherein the current attention mask (s) is obtained from the discriminative part (D) by classification of a previous synthesized output instance of the generative part (G) which is generated using a previous attention mask (s') obtained from the discriminative part (D) in a previous iteration of the inner iterative loop, and - changes between a current synthesized output instance of the generative part (G) which is generated using the current attention mask (s) and the previous synthesized output instance of the generative part (G).
2. The training system (100) according to claim 1, wherein the processor subsystem (160) is configured to hold the noisy samples (z) which are used as input to the generative part (G) constant in the inner iterative loop of the iterative training.
3. The training system (100) according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the processor subsystem (160) is configured to use an initial attention mask (s') as the previous attention mask at a start of the inner iterative loop, wherein the initial attention mask (s') identifies all parts of a respective input instance equally.
4. The training system (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein the mutual information term is an approximation of the true mutual information between the current attention mask (s) and the changes in the synthesized output instances.
5. The training system (100) according to claim 4, wherein the mutual information term is lower bounded by Variational Information Maximization.
6. The training system (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein: - the training data (144) comprises training images; - the generative part (G) is configured to generate synthesized output images; and - the discriminative part (D) is configured to discriminate between input images originating from the generative part (G) and the training data.
7. The training system (100) according to claim 6, wherein the discriminative part (D) is configured to generate the attention mask as a spatial overlay to the synthesized output image which is used as input to the discriminative part (D).
8. The training system (100) according to any one of claims 1 to 7, further comprising an output interface (120) configured to output logging information (146) which at least in part characterizes the training of the generative adversarial network.
9. The training system (100) according to claim 8, wherein the processor subsystem (160) is configured to output one or more attention masks generated in the inner iterative loop of the training as, or as part of, the logging information (146).
10. The training system (100) according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the processor subsystem (160) is configured to generate the logging information (146) as metadata to the generative model data (142) defining the trained generative adversarial model.
11. A computer-readable medium (400) comprising transitory or non-transitory data (410) defining a generative adversarial network comprising a generative part (G) and a discriminative part (D), wherein the discriminative part (D) is configured to discriminate between input instances originating from the generative part (G) and real input instances and to output a classification and an attention mask (s) identifying parts of a respective input instance which contribute to the classification of the respective input instance by the discriminative part (D), and wherein the generative part (G) is configured to receive the attention mask (s) as input and to generate synthesized output instances from i) noisy samples (z) drawn from a latent space and ii) the attention mask (s).
12. A data synthesis system (200) for synthesizing data using a generative part of a trained generative adversarial network, the data synthesis system comprising: - an input interface (220) configured to access generative model data (242) defining at least the generative part (G) of a generative adversarial network trained by the training system according to any one of claims 1 to 10; - a processor subsystem (260) configured to use the generative part (G) of the generative adversarial network to generate one or more synthesized output instances from noisy samples (z) drawn from a latent space; - an output interface (220) configured to output the one or more synthesized output instances as synthesized data (244).
13. A computer-implemented method for training a generative adversarial network, the method comprising: - accessing: - generative model data defining a generative adversarial network comprising a generative part (G) and a discriminative part (D), - training data for the generative adversarial network;
wherein the discriminative part (D) is configured to discriminate between input instances originating from the generative part (G) and the training data and to output a classification and an attention mask (s) identifying parts of a respective input instance which contribute to the classification of the respective input instance by the discriminative part (D),
wherein the generative part (G) is configured to receive the attention mask (s) as input and to generate synthesized output instances from i) noisy samples (z) drawn from a latent space and ii) the attention mask (s); and - iteratively training the generative adversarial network based on the training data by establishing an inner iterative loop in the iterative training in which the generative part (G) is trained using the discriminative part (D) by iteratively minimizing a loss function for the generative part (G), wherein minimizing the loss function comprises maximizing a mutual information term included in the loss function which represents mutual information between: - a current attention mask (s) of the discriminative part (D), wherein the current attention mask (s) is obtained from the discriminative part (D) by classification of a previous synthesized output instance of the generative part (G) which is generated using a previous attention mask (s') obtained from the discriminative part (D) in a previous iteration of the inner iterative loop, and - changes between a current synthesized output instance of the generative part (G) which is generated using the current attention mask (s) and the previous synthesized output instance of the generative part (G).
14. A computer-implemented method for synthesizing data using a generative part of a trained generative adversarial network, the method comprising: - accessing generative model data defining at least the generative part (G) of a generative adversarial network trained by the method according to claim 13; - using the generative part (G) of the generative adversarial network to generate one or more synthesized output instances from noisy samples (z) drawn from a latent space; and - outputting the one or more synthesized output instances as synthesized data.
15. A computer-readable medium (400) comprising transitory or non-transitory data (410) representing instructions arranged to cause a processor system to perform the computer-implemented method according to claim 13 or 14.
</claims>
</document>
