<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Xu, Wei
</assignee>

<inventors>
Xu, Wei
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66401680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CODE CHAIN-BASED MODEL, DEVICE, SYSTEM, METHOD, AND APPLICATION
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are Code Chain-based models, apparatuses, systems, methods, and applications. When implementing interaction based on Code Chain, each digital person has identity information, the identity information corresponding to a person represented by the digital person and/or the terminal device used by the person; the method comprising: identifying, by the terminal device, a coding medium generated according to a Code Chain access protocol so as to enable the digital person to access a Code Chain network on behalf of the person; and performing data transfer with another digital person and/or system according to entrustment of the person. Through identification of the coding medium, the access address of the code chain server is obtained, and then the address of the server which actually provides services is obtained from the Code Chain server, such that the service is obtained by providing a service parameter as required.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A Code Chain-based service providing method, comprising: identifying, by a terminal device of a user, a coding medium to obtain an access address of the Code Chain server; interacting, by the terminal device, with the Code Chain server based on the access address to obtain a service object list sent thereto from the Code Chain server; and interacting, by the terminal device based on a service address included in the service object list, with the server of a service provider directed to by the service address to obtain the service provided by the service provider.
2. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1, wherein: the coding medium identified by the user with the terminal device is issued by the Code Chain server; when the service is provided by one service provider, the Code Chain server issues the coding medium after receiving the code issuance request filed by the service provider; or, when a plurality of service providers provide their respective services, the Code Chain server issues the coding mediums based on the code issuance requests filed sequentially by the plurality of service providers; and wherein preferably, when the Code Chain server receives the code issuance request filed by one or more service providers, the Code Chain server issues the coding mediums after verifying the service provider or service providers based on the digital person identity information of the respective service providers.
3. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1, wherein:
the service object list includes a script indicating service sequence and parameter, service address of one or more service providers providing services, and dynamic digital token corresponding to the one or more service providers, and wherein the dynamic digital token corresponding to each service provider includes a description of the scene in which the service provider provides the service and the digital person identification information of the service provider.
4. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 3, wherein:
in the service object list, the service address of the service provider currently providing the service is indicated by service sequence; the terminal device of the user integrates the parameter required by the script and the data provided based on the parameter into a service parameter which is provided to the server directed to by the service address so as to obtain the service.
5. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1, wherein:
the mobile terminal of the user further obtains a dynamic digital token by identifying the coding medium, the dynamic digital token including a description of the scene in which the service provider provides the service and the digital person identification information of the service provider.
6. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1, wherein:
when the terminal device of the user interacts with the Code Chain server, the Code Chain server is requested to authenticate the service provider based on the dynamic digital token which is obtained from identifying the coding medium and includes the digital person identity information of the service provider; and the Code Chain server sends a service object list to the terminal device in response to the request passing the authentication.
7. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1, wherein:
when the terminal device of the user interacts with the Code Chain server, the Code Chain server is requested to authenticate the coding medium; the Code Chain server sends the service object list to the terminal device in response to the request passing authentication.
8. The Code Chain-based service providing method according to claim 1 or 4 or 6 or 7, wherein:
the user provides the Code Chain server with the digital person identity information of the user when interacting with the Code Chain server via the terminal device; the user provides the server with the digital identity information of the user when interacting with the server of the service provider via the terminal device; the digital person identity information of the user corresponds to the user and/or the terminal device.
9. A Code Chain-based interaction implementing method, wherein each digital person has identity information, the identity information corresponding to a person represented by the digital person and/or the terminal device used by the person; the method comprising: identifying, by the terminal device, a coding medium generated according to a Code Chain access protocol so as to enable the digital person to access a Code Chain network on behalf of the person; and performing data transfer with another digital person and/or system according to entrustment of the person.
10. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 9, wherein: a code issuing center issues the coding medium and manages information associated with the coding medium; the digital person identifies the coding medium to obtain an access address directed to the server of the code issuing center; and through interaction with the server of the code issuing center, the digital person obtains information associated with the coding medium.
11. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 10, wherein:
the digital person obtains a jump instruction directed to other digital person and/or system through interacting with the server of the code issuing center.
12. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 10, wherein: when interacting with the server of the code issuing center, the digital person obtains, by providing the identity information of the digital person, content in conformity with the attribute of the digital person in the information associated with the coding medium; or, when interacting with another digital person and/or system, the digital person obtains, by providing the identity information of the digital person, content in conformity with the attribute of the digital person in the information associated with the coding medium;
13. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 10, wherein
one or more digital persons as an issuer files a code issuance request with the code issuing center, and the code issuing center issues the coding medium after verifying the identity of the issuer; wherein the information associated with the coding medium includes information of the issuer.
14. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 10, wherein:
for the digital person accessing the Code Chain network by identifying the coding medium, the code issuing center records the identity information of the digital person into the information associated with the coding medium.
15. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 10, wherein: for the digital person performing data transmission, the code issuing center records the identity information of the digital person into the information associated with the coding medium; or, for the digital person performing data transmission, the code issuing center generates a new coding medium based on the Code Chain access protocol, wherein coded information of the new coding medium includes data to be transmitted and identity information of the digital person.
16. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 9 or 10 or 15, wherein:
when the digital person performs data transmission, the person represented by the digital person performs information filtering and/or provides additional information based on the information identified from the coding medium and then transmits the data out.
17. The Code Chain-based interaction implementing method according to claim 9 or 10, wherein:
the digital person has a unique identification chain, which forms a key string jointly with a key for decoding the identification chain.
18. A coding medium, wherein: the coding medium is applicable to any one of claims 1-8 or any one of claims 9∼17; and identification of the coding medium is initiated by executing at least one of the following operations: scanning or shooting the coding medium via a camera of a digital person; scanning or shooting the coding medium provided by a digital person via a camera of another digital person; manipulating, via the terminal device of the digital person, the coding medium or a hyperlink from a same source as the coding medium; viewing by aiming the camera of the digital person to the coding medium; wherein the camera or terminal device of the digital person is bound to the identity information of the digital person.
19. The coding medium according to claim 18, wherein: the information associated with the coding medium is managed by the code issuing center issuing the coding medium; and any digital person accesses and interacts with the server of the code issuing center by identifying the coding medium; any digital person obtains, by providing identity information of the digital person to the code issuing center, content in conformity with the attribute of the digital person in the information associated with the coding medium; and/or, any digital person obtains, by providing identity information of another digital person to the code issuing center, information related to said another digital person.
20. The coding medium according to claim 18, wherein:
a drive instruction for an application is generated based on identification of the coding medium so as to cause the digital person to obtain a service; the application is installed in any one of the following apparatuses, or the drive instruction is generated by any one of the following apparatuses based on the result of identifying the coding medium:
a device comprising a camera, a wearable device in signal connection with the camera, a terminal device in signal connection with the camera or the wearable device, and a cloud background server in signal connection with the camera, or the wearable device, or the terminal device.
21. The coding medium according to claim 18 or 19, wherein:
the coding medium corresponds to a Special Goods-Drawing Right (SGR) which is a unit of measurement of a real right-based smart agreement.
22. The coding medium according to claim 18 or 21, wherein:
when the coding medium as a digital currency is accessed and used in a designated subject, its life cycle spans across the Code Chain life cycle of the subject; the subject includes a set of services provided by the issuer of the coding medium; the Code Chain life cycle starts from issuance of the coding medium by the code issuing center, ends till the service under the subject is completely provided.
23. The coding medium according to any one of claims 18∼21, wherein: the coding medium is an optical lattice diagram visible or invisible to human eyes, in a form of one-dimensional code, two-dimensional code, or multi-dimensional code, which is also static or has light-shadow ray variations or frequency variations; or, the coding medium is a three-dimensional stereoscopic code with a three-dimensional stereoscopic structure formed according to an encoding rule.
24. A camera, wherein
the camera may scan, or shoot, or view a coding medium according to any one of claims 18∼23, and identifies the coding medium with a built-in processor of the camera or an external processor in signal connection with the camera; the camera is integrated in the wearable device or terminal device, or a standalone camera is in signal connection with the wearable device, or the terminal device, or the cloud background server.
25. The camera according to claim 24, wherein the wearable device is a smart glass; automatic identification of the coding medium is initiated by aiming the integrated camera to the coding medium to view; and information associated with the coding medium is obtained from any one of the camera, the smart glass, other wearable device, the terminal device in signal connection with the camera or the smart glass signal, and the cloud background server in signal connection with the camera, or the smart glass, or the terminal device, and is then presented by the smart glass, or another wearable device, or the terminal device.
26. The camera according to claim 25, wherein:
content in conformity with the attribute of the digital person in the information associated with the coding medium is obtained based on the digital person identity information of at least of the camera, the smart glass, other wearable device, and the terminal device, and is then presented.
27. The camera according to claim 25 or 26, wherein
when being presented by the smart glass, or another wearable device, or the terminal device, the information associated with the coding medium is superimposed over the information originally presented by the smart glass, or another wearable device, or the terminal device so as to be simultaneously presented.
28. The camera according to claim 24, wherein: automatic focusing is performed by aiming the camera to the coding medium based on the sensed scene parameter or the set scene mode; or, the camera receives an optical signal reflected back from the coding medium and performs automatic focusing based on a result of measuring the distance between the camera and the coding medium.
29. The camera according to claim 24, wherein:
when the coding medium is a three-dimensional stereoscopic code whose surface forms a three-dimensional stereoscopic structure according to an encoding rule, the camera receives the optical signal reflected back from various parts of the three-dimensional stereoscopic structure, and implements identification of the three-dimensional code based on a result of measuring the distance difference from various parts to the camera.
30. The camera according to any one of claims 24∼27, wherein the camera of the digital person shoots a video or image with landmark information under a specific entity scene, and the code information together with the coding medium including the digital person identity information is sent to the cloud background server to bind;
through any of the following operations, the wearable device or terminal device of the digital person or another digital person may present a virtual scene corresponding to the entity scene; wherein, preferably, the respective digital person obtains the content in conformity with the attribute of the digital person in the virtual scene by providing the digital person identity information;
the operations include: identifying the presented or propagated coding medium; or, identifying the coding medium based on position information in the entity scene; or, identifying the coding medium that can be retrieved according to a condition, wherein the condition includes any one or more of the entity scene, the landmark information, the video or image including the landmark information, and the digital person identity information of the shooter.
</claims>
</document>
