<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/20,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Sobolt B.V.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Fabius, Otto
van Daal, Tom Adrianus Antonius
Nieuwland, Arthur
Hetharia, Daniël Benjamin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66867031
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR THERMOGRAPHIC ANALYSIS USING A HYBRID CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A thermographic analysis method is proposed, comprising the following steps: acquiring thermal infrared (TIR) image data of a structure; acquiring visible light image data of the structure; processing the TIR image data through a first part of a convolutional neural network (CNN) to obtain a first intermediate result; processing the visible light image data through a second part of the CNN to obtain a second intermediate result, the second part comprising a plurality of convolutional layers; concatenating the first intermediate result and the second intermediate result to obtain a concatenated intermediate result and processing it to obtain thermographic analysis data including coordinates of identified segments of the input images associated with possible thermal leaks as well as an associated probability score for each identified segment; and providing the thermographic analysis data to a user. A method of training a convolutional neural network for thermographic analysis is also proposed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Computer-implemented method for thermographic analysis, comprising the following steps: acquiring thermal infrared (TIR) image data of a structure; acquiring visible light image data of the structure; processing the TIR image data through a first part of a convolutional neural network (CNN) to obtain a first intermediate result; processing the visible light image data through a second part of the CNN to obtain a second intermediate result, the second part comprising a plurality of convolutional layers; concatenating the first intermediate result and the second intermediate result to obtain a concatenated intermediate result; processing the concatenated intermediate result to obtain thermographic analysis data, the thermographic analysis data including coordinates of identified segments of the input images associated with possible thermal leaks as well as an associated probability score for each identified segment; and providing the thermographic analysis data to a user, preferably through a graphical user interface.
2. Method according to claim 1, wherein the processing of the concatenated intermediate result to obtain thermographic analysis data is performed through a third part of the CNN, the third part comprising a plurality of convolutional layers.
3. Method according to claim 1, wherein the first part of the CNN corresponds to an identity layer or comprises an identity layer.
4. Method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein the first part comprises a plurality of convolutional layers.
5. Method according to any of the previous claims, wherein the TIR image data has a first resolution and the visible light image data, which is preferably RGB image data, has a second resolution, and wherein the first resolution is lower than the second resolution, wherein
the method further includes a step of resampling the visible light image data to the first resolution; or
the second part of the CNN includes more pooling layers than the first part of the CNN; or
the method further includes a step of adapting the first and/or second intermediate results to make concatenation possible.
6. Method according to any of the previous claims, wherein the layers of the second part of the CNN are configured to form a sub-network with an architecture particularly suitable for segmentation of visible light image data, and wherein the second intermediate result includes segmentation results.
7. Method according to any of the previous claims, wherein providing the thermographic analysis data through the graphical user interface comprises displaying an estimated outline of the identified segments of the input images associated with possible thermal leaks together with the visible light image data, and preferably further comprises displaying the probability, as a number and/or through a visual indication, for example using color coding.
8. Method according to any of the previous claims, wherein the thermal analysis data further comprises classification information associated with each possible thermal leak, and/or a temperature profile for each possible thermal leak.
9. Method according to any of the previous claims, further comprising: receiving user input indicating the selection of a possible thermal leak via the graphical user interface; displaying the probability of the selected possible thermal leak being a thermal leak, preferably in combination with a classification and/or temperature profile for the selected possible thermal leak;
and/or receiving user input indicating the selection of a position via the graphical user interface; providing information from the input TIR image data for the selected position;
and/or receiving user input indicating the setting of a probability threshold; adapting the graphical indication of the possible thermal leaks in relation to the visible features of the structure according to the indicated probability threshold.
10. Method according to claim 9, comprising: receiving user input via the graphical user interface indicating modifications to the output; adapting the output according to the received user input, wherein the adapted output is preferably used as training material for the CNN to further improve and refine the method; wherein, in cases where the thermal analysis is provided using a plurality of polygons, the graphical user interface preferably allows a user to indicate removal, redrawing, and/or addition of polygons.
11. Method according to any of the previous claims, further comprising the steps of: acquiring additional information about the structure relevant for the thermal properties of the structure; providing the additional information as further input for the CNN, preferably at the concatenation step.
12. Computer-implemented method of training a neural network for use in thermographic analysis, preferably for use in the method of any of the previous claims, the method comprising the following steps: providing training data including a plurality of annotated data points, each annotated data point including: thermal infrared (TIR) image data of a structure; visible light image data of the structure; for each thermal leak identified by a thermographic expert based on at least the TIR image data: coordinates of a polygon indicating the boundary of the thermal leak; a class label, identifying a type of thermal leak, wherein the class label is selected from a hierarchical classification tree; providing a convolutional neural network (CNN) comprising a first part; a second part comprising a plurality of convolutional layers; and a concatenation layer configured to concatenate the output of the first part and the output of the second part; and training the CNN using the TIR image data of the annotated data points as the input for the first part, the visible light image data of the annotated data points as the input for the second part, and the coordinates and class labels for each identified thermal leak of the annotated data points as labels.
13. Method according to claim 12,
wherein the provided CNN comprises a third part comprising a plurality of convolutional layers, configured to process the combined output of the first part of the CNN and the output of the second part of the CNN; and/or
wherein the first part comprises a plurality of convolutional layers; and/or
wherein the initial weights for the provided CNN are randomly initialized weights; or wherein the initial weights for the provided CNN are obtained by pre-training at least a subset of the layers of the CNN using a different annotated dataset.
14. Method according to claim 12 or 13, further comprising the steps of: performing one or more transformations on the input TIR image data and/or the input visible light image data to enhance the training set; and/or setting all values of the visible light image data to zero for a subset of the annotated data points for a certain portion of the training time.
15. A computer-readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the method of any of the previous claims.
</claims>
</document>
