<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A45D44/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/44,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAL-COMP BIG DATA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, Yung-Hsuan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68581538
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUGMENTED REALITY DISPLAY METHOD OF APPLYING COLOR OF HAIR TO EYEBROWS
</title>

<abstract>
An augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows includes the steps of capturing a head image (30) of a user (2), retrieving an original eyebrow image from the head image (30), extracting a hair representation image (31) covering at least part of the user's hair from the head image (30), executing a process of extracting hair region on the hair representation image (31) for obtaining a hair mask for indicating hair's position, computing a hair color parameter according to the hair mask and the hair representation image (31), executing a process of coloring eyebrows on the head image (30) according to the hair color parameter and position of the original eyebrow image for obtaining an AR (Augmented Reality) head image which its eyebrow color corresponds to the hair color parameter, and displaying the AR head image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows, the method being applied to a smart mirror apparatus (1) comprising an image capture module (12), a display module (11) and a processing unit (10), the method comprising following steps: a) capturing a head image (30) of a user (2) by the image capture module (12); b) cropping the head image (30) for obtaining an original eyebrow image by the processing unit (10); c) cropping the head image (30) for obtaining a hair representation image (31), wherein the hair representation image (31) only covers partial hair of the user (2); d) executing a process of extracting hair region on the hair representation image (31) for obtaining a hair mask, wherein the hair mask indicates a hair position of the hair in the hair representation image (31); e) computing a hair color parameter according to the hair mask and the hair representation image (31); f) executing a process of coloring eyebrows on the head image (30) according to the hair color parameter and a position of the original eyebrow image for obtaining an AR (Augmented Reality) head image, wherein an eyebrow color of the AR head image corresponds to the hair color parameter; and g) displaying the AR head image by the display module (11).
2. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 1, further comprising a step h) performed after the step a) and before the step b) executing a face analysis process on the head image (30) to recognize a plurality of eyebrow feature points (40, 41) corresponding to eyebrows of the user (2);
wherein the step b) is performed to crop the eyebrow image from the head image (30) according to the plurality of eyebrow feature points (40, 41).
3. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 2, wherein the step h) is further performed to recognize a plurality of forehead feature points (42-44) corresponding to a forehead of the user (2), the step c) comprises following steps: c1) determining a cropping width (W) according to the plurality of forehead feature points (42-44); c2) determining a cropping height (H) according to the forehead feature point (42-44) being the highest and a hair apex point; and c3) cropping a part of the head image (30) as the hair representation image (31) according to a position of the forehead feature point (42-44) being the highest, the cropping width (W) and the cropping height (H).
4. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 1, wherein the step d) comprises following steps: d1) executing an analysis of hairline features on the hair representation image (31) to obtain a hairline feature image; and d2) execute a process of image morphology on the hairline feature image to obtain the hair mask.
5. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 4, wherein the step d1) is performed to execute a gray-scale process on the hair representation image (31) to obtain the hair representation image (31) being gray-scale, and execute the analysis of hairline features on the hair representation image (31) being gray-scale;
the step d2) is performed to execute a binarization process of brightness division on the hairline feature image to obtain the hairline feature image being halftone, and execute the process of image morphology on the hairline feature image being halftone, wherein the hairline feature image being halftone is used to indicate a region matching with a designated brightness range in the hairline feature image.
6. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 4, wherein the analysis of hairline features comprises analyzing hairline features by Hessian matrix; the process of image morphology comprises executing an erosion process and a dilation process on a plurality of adjacent pixels of the hairline feature image many times.
7. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 6, wherein the process of image morphology is configured to firstly execute a closing operation on the hairline feature image to make edges of the hairline features smooth, and then execute an opening operation on the hairline feature image being processed to remove the hairline features being scattered.
8. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 1, wherein the step e) is performed to apply the hair mask to the hair representation image (31) to obtain the hair representation image (31) excluding from non-hair image, and compute a mean of pixel values of a plurality of pixels of the hair representation image (31) being applied as the hair color parameter.
9. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 1, wherein the step f) further comprises following steps: f1) retrieving an eyebrow mask corresponding to the original eyebrow image, wherein the eyebrow mask is used to indicate a position and shape of the original eyebrow image in the head image (30); f2) executing a process of erasing or brushing eyebrows on the head image (30) to erase or conceal the original eyebrow image; and f3) executing a first color-mixing process on the head image (30) being processed according to the hair color parameter and the eyebrow mask to color at an eyebrow position of the head image (30) being processed to obtain the AR head image.
10. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 9, wherein the first color-mixing process comprises computing a plurality of new pixel values of the plurality of pixels of the head image (30) according to a first transparency amount, the hair color parameter and a plurality of original pixel values of the plurality of pixels of the head image (30) being processed corresponding to the eyebrow mask.
11. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 9, wherein the step f2) comprises following steps: f21) executing a gradualness process on contour of the eyebrow mask to blur the contour of the eyebrow mask; f22) executing a blurring process on the original eyebrow image to obtain a blur eyebrow image; and f23) executing a second color-mixing process according to the head image (30), the blur eyebrow image and the eyebrow mask to erase or conceal the original eyebrow image.
12. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 11, wherein the second color-mixing process comprises computing a plurality of new pixel values of the plurality of pixels of the head image (30) according to a second transparency amount, a plurality of pixels values of a plurality of pixels of the blur eyebrow image corresponding to the eyebrow mask, and a plurality of original pixels values of a plurality of pixels of the head image (30).
13. The augmented reality display method of applying color of hair to eyebrows according to claim 1, further comprising a step i) determining a color code corresponding to the hair color parameter, and display the color code by the display module (11).
</claims>
</document>
