<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/565
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHAO, CHEN GUANG
WU, Peng
ZHANG, Yajing
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67253720
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN APPARATUS AND METHOD FOR MEDICAL IMAGE CORRECTION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiment of the present invention provides a method for generating a quality degradation model of an imaging system with a hardware imperfection. The method comprises the steps of obtaining a first image from a first simulation of the imaging system without the hardware imperfection, obtaining a second image from a second simulation of the imaging system with the hardware imperfection, and generating the quality degradation model learnt with a mapping function from an input degraded image measured from the imaging system to an output corrected image based on a plurality of input and out image pairs. The input image in each image pair comprises the second image, and the output image in each image pair comprises the first image. The quality degradation from the output image to the input image in each image pair characterizes a type of quality degradation specific to the hardware imperfection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for correcting a type of quality degradation specific to a hardware imperfection of an imaging system in a medical image , the method comprising: - obtaining a first image from a first simulation of the imaging system without the hardware imperfection; - obtaining a second image from a second simulation of the imaging system with the hardware imperfection; - generating a quality degradation model learnt with a mapping function from an input degraded image measured from the imaging system to an output corrected image based on a plurality of input and out image pairs, wherein the input image in each input and output image pair comprises the second image and the output image in each input and output image pair comprises the first image, and wherein a quality degradation from the output image to the input image in each image pair characterizes the type of quality degradation specific to the hardware imperfection; - applying the quality degradation model to the medical image to correct the type of quality degradation specific to the hardware imperfection of the imaging system.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: - obtaining an 1 object by a simulator of the imaging system;
generating the first image of the object by the simulator configured without the hardware imperfection; and - generating the second image of the object by the simulator configured with the hardware imperfection.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising:
generating the object based on a natural image.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
predetermining the hardware imperfection during an installation of the imaging system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the imaging system comprises a magnetic resonance imaging system and wherein the hardware imperfection comprises B0 inhomogeneity, gradient delay, B 1 inhomogeneity, coil sensitivity, eddy current, chain variability or combinations thereof.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: - configuring the first simulation to simulate the magnetic resonance imaging system without the hardware imperfection and using a specific pulse sequence to obtain the first image; - configuring the second simulation to simulate the magnetic resonance imaging system with the hardware imperfection and using the specific pulse sequence to obtain the second image; and - generating the quality degradation model learnt with the mapping function specific for the magnetic resonance imaging system with the hardware imperfection and using the specific pulse sequence.
7. An apparatus for medical image correction comprising: - a storage medium configured to store a plurality of input and output image pairs, wherein the input image in each input and output image pair is generated from a first simulation of a medical imaging system without a hardware imperfection and the output image in each input and output image pair is generated from a second simulation of the medical imaging system with the hardware imperfection, thereby a quality degradation from the output image to the input image in each input and output image pair characterizing a type of quality degradation specific to the hardware imperfection; and - a quality degradation model configured to learn a mapping function from an input degraded medical image measured from the medical imaging system to an output corrected medical image based on the plurality of input and out image pairs.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, further comprises:
a simulator of the medical imaging system configured to execute the first and second simulations.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the storage medium is further configured to store a plurality of objects for the first and second simulations.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the hardware imperfection is predetermined during a system imperfection characterization procedure of the medical imaging system.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the medical imaging system comprises a magnetic resonance imaging system and wherein the hardware imperfection comprises B0 inhomogeneity, gradient delay, B1 inhomogeneity, coil sensitivity, eddy current, chain variability or combinations thereof.
12. A method for correcting a quality degradation specific to a hardware imperfection of an imaging system in a medical image, the method comprising: - receiving the medical image by a quality degradation model learnt with a mapping function from a degraded input measured from the imaging system to a corrected output based on a plurality of input and out image pairs, wherein the output image in each input and output image pair comprises a first image generated from a first simulation of the imaging system without the hardware imperfection and the input image in each input and output image pair comprises a second image generated from a second simulation of the imaging system with the hardware imperfection, thereby a quality degradation from the output image to the input image in each input and output image pair characterizing a type of quality degradation specific to the hardware imperfection; and - mapping a corrected medical image by the mapping function of the quality degradation model based on the received medical image.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the medical imaging system comprises a magnetic resonance imaging system and wherein the hardware imperfection comprises B0 inhomogeneity, gradient delay, B1 inhomogeneity, coil sensitivity, eddy current, chain variability or combinations thereof.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising:
predetermining the hardware imperfection during a system imperfection characterization procedure of the imaging system.
15. A computer program product comprises a computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, the computer-readable program code configured to perform all of the steps of any of claims 1-6 and claims 12-14 when executed on at least one processor.
</claims>
</document>
