<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SLACK TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOWALCZYK, Nathalie
JAMISON, Britton
MORRIS, Ryan David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71842512
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GROUP-BASED COMMUNICATION SYSTEM AND APPARATUS CONFIGURED TO MANAGE CHANNEL TITLES ASSOCIATED WITH GROUP-BASED COMMUNICATION CHANNELS
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of the present invention are directed to an improved group-based communication apparatus that is configured to efficiently manage channel title associated with group- based communication channels in a group-based communication system. The group-based communication apparatus is configured to determine and recommend channel title suggestions in association with the creation or renaming of group-based communication channels. The recommended channel title suggestions are determined based at least in part on a group-defined format protocol. The group-based communication apparatus also may be configured to utilize other data analytics (e.g., user profile data, group channel data, channel title data, channel title count data, channel title recency data, channel activity data, and/or the like) to inform the determination of recommended channel title suggestions. Additionally, the channel title data may be combined with other data of the group-based communication workspace to assemble one or more work graph data structures as discussed in detail herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A group-based communication apparatus configured to manage group-based communication channels of a group-based communication interface, the group-based communication apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory having computer-coded instructions therein, wherein the computer-coded instructions are configured to, in execution with the at least one processor, cause the group-based communication apparatus to: receive, from a client device, a channel creation request associated with a group identifier; retrieve a group-defined channel title template associated with the group identifier from a group-based communication repository, the group-defined channel title template comprising a group-defined format protocol; cause rendering of a channel creation interface in response to receipt of the channel creation request, wherein the channel creation interface comprises a channel title interface component; detect engagement of the channel title interface component of the channel creation interface; and in response to detecting the engagement of the channel title interface component, determine a first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and cause rendering of the first channel title suggestions set to the channel creation interface.
2. The group-based communication apparatus as claim 1 recites, wherein each channel title suggestion of the first channel title suggestions set comprises a programmatically generated text portion and a user-defined text portion.
3. The group-based communication apparatus as claim 2 recites, wherein one or more of the programmatically generated text portions comprises a channel title prefix.
4. The group-based communication apparatus as any one of claims 1-3 recites, wherein the channel creation request is associated with a user identifier and wherein the group-based communication apparatus is further configured to: retrieve user profile data associated with the user identifier from the group-based communication repository; and determine the first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and based on the user profile data.
5. A computer implemented method for managing group-based communication channels of a group-based communication interface, the computer implemented method comprising: receiving, from a client device, a channel creation request associated with a group identifier; retrieving a group-defined channel title template associated with the group identifier from a group-based communication repository, the group-defined channel title template comprising a group-defined format protocol; causing rendering of a channel creation interface in response to receipt of the channel creation request, wherein the channel creation interface comprises a channel title interface component; detecting engagement of the channel title interface component of the channel creation interface; and in response to detecting the engagement of the channel title interface component, determining a first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and causing rendering of the first channel title suggestions set to the channel creation interface.
6. The computer implemented method as claim 5 recites, wherein each channel title suggestion of the first channel title suggestions set comprises a programmatically generated text portion and a user-defined text portion.
7. The computer implemented method as claim 6 recites, wherein the channel title interface component is configured to facilitate user entry of the user-defined text portion.
8. The computer implemented method as claim 6 recites, wherein one or more of the programmatically generated text portions comprises a channel title prefix.
9. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-8 recites, wherein the channel creation request is associated with a user identifier and further comprising: receiving, via the channel title interface component, input of a user-defined channel title text component; associating the user-defined channel title text component with the user identifier and group identifier; and causing storage of channel title data in the group-based communication repository, wherein the channel title data comprises the user-defined channel title text component, the user identifier, and the group identifier.
10. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-9 recites, wherein the channel creation request is associated with a user identifier and further comprising: retrieving user profile data associated with the user identifier from the group-based communication repository; and determining the first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and based on the user profile data.
11. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-10 recites, further comprising: retrieving group channel data associated with the group identifier from the group-based communication repository; and determining the first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and based on the group channel data.
12. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-11 recites, further comprising: retrieving system channel data, wherein the system channel data is correlated to all public group-based communication channels of a group-based communication system; and determining the first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and based on the system channel data.
13. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-12 recites, further comprising: generating a work graph data structure, wherein the work graph data structure is based at least in part on metadata, body content data, and channel title data; and determining the first channel title suggestions set based on the group-defined format protocol of the group-defined channel title template and based on the work graph data structure.
14. The computer implemented method as any one of claims 5-13 recites, further comprising: retrieving channel title description components for one or more group-based communication channels associated with each channel title suggestion of the first channel title suggestions set from the group-based communication repository; and causing rendering of the channel title description components in association with the rendering of the first channel title suggestions set to the channel creation interface.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instruction that, when executed, cause one or more processors to perform a method as any one of claims 5-14 recites.
</claims>
</document>
