<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
YEREBAKAN, Halid Ziya
SHINAGAWA, Yoshihisa
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66239943
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENCODING TEXTUAL INFORMATION FOR TEXT ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method of encoding a word for use in a method of text analysis comprises receiving input text to be analysed, the input text comprising a first word which is not represented in a vocabulary set stored on a storage. The vocabulary set comprises a plurality of words and an associated word embedding vector for each word in the set. The method comprises identifying the first word as a word which is not represented in the vocabulary set and determining one or more sub-words within the first word with which to encode the first word. Each of the one or more sub-words corresponds with a word represented in the vocabulary set and having an embedding vector in the vocabulary set. The method comprises determining an encoding for the first word based on the one or more sub-words.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of encoding a word for use in a method of text analysis, the method comprising: receiving input text to be analysed, the input text comprising a first word which is not represented in a vocabulary set stored on a storage, the vocabulary set comprising a plurality of words and an associated word embedding vector for each word in the set; identifying the first word as a word which is not represented in the vocabulary set; determining one or more sub-words within the first word with which to encode the first word, each of the one or more sub-words corresponding with a word represented in the vocabulary set and having an embedding vector in the vocabulary set; and determining an encoding for the first word based on the one or more sub-words.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first word is segmentable in more than one way, each way of segmenting the first word providing a segmentation, and each segmentation comprising one or more sub-words, and wherein:
determining the one or more sub-words to be used to encode the first word comprises selecting one of the segmentations of the first word.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein selecting one of the segmentations of the first word to obtain one or more sub-words comprises:
selecting the segmentation of the first word based on pre-determined criteria relating to the segmentations.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein selecting the segmentation of the first word to produce sub-words comprises selecting a segmentation comprising a lower or lowest number of sub-words of each of the segmentations.
5. The method according to claim 3 or claim 4, wherein a pre-determined criterion based upon which the segmentation of the first word is selected relates to a frequency associated with the sub-words produced by each of the segmentations.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein selecting one of the segmentations of the first word comprises determining a scoring value for each of the segmentations based on the number of sub-words and the frequency associated with the sub-words produced by each segmentation and selecting the segmentation based on a comparison of the scoring values, and, optionally, wherein the scoring values are determined based on a weighted sum of a first term relating to the number of sub-words produced by each segmentation and a second term relating to the frequency of the sub-words produced by each segmentation.
7. The method according to any preceding claim, wherein the vocabulary set comprises individual characters of a natural language of the input text and has embedding vectors associated with the individual characters, and wherein the first word may be segmented to provide one or more sub-words comprising a plurality of characters and one or more sub-words comprising an individual character.
8. The method according to any preceding claim wherein the vocabulary set comprises fewer than 500,000 words, and optionally wherein the vocabulary set comprises around 100,000 words.
9. The method according to claim 8 wherein the vocabulary set is the Fasttext 100k vocabulary set or a Glove vocabulary set.
10. A method of applying a computer implemented text analysis process to natural language text to obtain a text analysis result, the natural language text comprising one or more words not present in a vocabulary set stored on a storage;
wherein the computer implemented text analysis process comprises: identifying and encoding, using the method according to any of claims 1 to 9, each word in the natural language text which does not correspond with a word in the vocabulary set to obtain an encoding for each word not present in the vocabulary set; obtaining from the vocabulary set, for each word of the natural language text which corresponds to a word in the vocabulary set and for each sub-word of the encoding, an embedding vector; determining, based on the obtained embedding vectors, and using a text analysis model, a text analysis result.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the text analysis model is a text classification model and the method is a method of obtaining a classification of the natural language text.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the text analysis model is a translation model and the method is a method of obtaining a translation of the natural language text from a first natural language into a second natural language.
13. A set of machine-readable instructions which when executed by a processor cause a method according to any of claims 1 to 12 to be performed.
14. A machine-readable medium comprising a set of machine-readable instructions according to claim 13.
15. Apparatus comprising a processor and a storage comprising a set of machine-readable instructions which when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform a method according to any of claims 1 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
