<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NGUYEN, Hieu T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69804589
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INTELLIGENT VIDEO ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus is provided. The apparatus receives a video feed and processes the video feed in real-time as the video feed is received. The apparatus performs object detection and recognition on the video feed to detect and classify objects therein, performs activity recognition to detect and classify activities of at least some of the objects, and outputs classified objects and classified activities in the video feed. The apparatus generates natural language text that describes the video feed, produces a semantic network, and stores the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network in a knowledge base. The apparatus generates a graphical user interface (GUI) configured to enable queries of the knowledge base, and presentation of selections of the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus (900) comprising a processor (901) and a memory (902) storing executable instructions that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the apparatus to: receive a video feed; process the video feed in real-time as the video feed is received, including the apparatus being caused to: perform object detection and recognition on the video feed to detect and classify objects therein, perform activity recognition to detect and classify activities of at least some of the objects, and output classified objects and classified activities in the video feed; generate natural language text that describes the video feed from the classified objects and activities; produce a semantic network including a graph with vertices that represent the classified objects, and edges that connect the vertices and represent semantic relationships between the classified objects, at least some of the semantic relationships corresponding to respective ones of the classified activities; and store the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network in a knowledge base; and generate a graphical user interface (GUI) (1041) configured to enable queries of the knowledge base, and presentation of selections of the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network.
2. The apparatus (900) of claim 1, wherein the apparatus being caused to receive the video feed includes being caused to receive the video feed from multiple sources, and wherein at least some of the multiple sources are moving sources.
3. The apparatus (900) of any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus being caused to process the video feed further includes being caused to: geo-register the classified objects with respective geographic locations, and including respective trajectories of any moving ones of the classified objects, wherein the GUI (1041) is further configured to present an aerial image or map of a scene in the video feed, identifying thereon the classified objects at the respective geographic locations and with the respective trajectories of the moving ones of the classified objects.
4. The apparatus (900) of any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform object detection and recognition includes being caused to assign respective unique identifiers to the classified objects, and the presentation of selections of the video feed in the GUI (1041) includes identifying the classified objects on the video feed and including the respective unique identifiers.
5. The apparatus (900) of any preceding claim, wherein at least some of the objects are moving objects, and the apparatus being caused to perform object detection and recognition includes being caused to detect and classify the moving objects using motion compensation, background subtraction and convolutional neural networks.
6. The apparatus (900) of any preceding claim, wherein the apparatus being caused to perform activity recognition includes being caused to detect and classify at least some of the activities as involving only a single one of the classified objects, multiple ones of the classified objects, or interaction between one or more of the classified objects and a geographic area in the video feed.
7. The apparatus (900) of any preceding claim wherein the apparatus being caused to generate the GUI (1041) includes being caused to generate the GUI configured to enable queries of the knowledge base based on similarity between a user-specified object and one or more of the classified objects in the video feed.
8. A method (800) of intelligent video analysis, the method comprising: receiving (801) a video feed; processing (802) the video feed in real-time as the video feed is received, including: performing (8021) object detection and recognition on the video feed to detect and classify objects therein, performing activity recognition to detect and classify activities of at least some of the objects, and outputting classified objects and classified activities in the video feed; generating (8022) natural language text that describes the video feed from the classified objects and activities; producing (8023) a semantic network including a graph with vertices that represent the classified objects, and edges that connect the vertices and represent semantic relationships between the classified objects, at least some of the semantic relationships corresponding to respective ones of the classified activities; and storing (8024) the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network in a knowledge base; and generating (803) a graphical user interface (GUI) (1041) configured to enable queries of the knowledge base, and presentation of selections of the video feed, classified objects and classified activities, natural language text, and semantic network.
9. The method (800) of claim 8, where receiving (801) the video feed includes receiving the video feed from multiple sources, and wherein at least some of the multiple sources are moving sources.
10. The method (800) of any of claims 8-9, wherein processing (802) the video feed further includes geo-registering the classified objects with respective geographic locations, and including respective trajectories of any moving ones of the classified objects,
and wherein the GUI (1041) is further configured to present an aerial image or map of a scene in the video feed, identifying thereon the classified objects at the respective geographic locations and with the respective trajectories of the moving ones of the classified objects.
11. The method (800) of any of claims 8-10, wherein performing (8021) object detection and recognition includes assigning respective unique identifiers to the classified objects, and the presentation of selections of the video feed in the GUI (1041) includes identifying the classified objects on the video feed and including the respective unique identifiers.
12. The method (800) of any of claims 8-11, wherein at least some of the objects are moving objects, and performing (8021) object detection and recognition includes detecting and classifying the moving objects using motion compensation, background subtraction and convolutional neural networks.
13. The method (800) of any of claims 8-12, wherein performing (8021) activity recognition includes detecting and classifying at least some of the activities as involving only a single one of the classified objects, multiple ones of the classified objects, or interaction between one or more of the classified objects and a geographic area in the video feed.
14. The method (800) of any of claims 8-13, wherein generating the GUI (1041) includes generating the GUI configured to enable queries of the knowledge base based on similarity between a user-specified object and one or more of the classified objects in the video feed.
</claims>
</document>
