<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/499
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
ITO, MAKIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71092279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARITHMETIC PROCESSING APPARATUS, CONTROL METHOD, AND CONTROL PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
An arithmetic processing apparatus includes: a memory (15) that stores, when a training of a given machine learning model is repeatedly performed in a plurality of iterations, an error of a decimal point position of each of a plurality of fixed-point number data obtained one in each of the plurality of iterations, the error being obtained based on statistical information related to a distribution of leftmost set bit positions for positive number and leftmost unset bit positions for negative number or a distribution of rightmost set bit positions of the plurality of fixed-point number data; and a determiner (14) that determines, based on a tendency of the error in each of the plurality of iterations, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An arithmetic processing apparatus comprising: a memory (15,15A) that stores, when a training of a given machine learning model is repeatedly performed in a plurality of iterations, an error of a decimal point position of each of a plurality of fixed-point number data obtained one in each of the plurality of iterations, the error being obtained based on statistical information (22) related to a distribution of leftmost set bit positions for positive number and leftmost unset bit positions for negative number or a distribution of rightmost set bit positions of the plurality of fixed-point number data; and a determiner (14,14A,14B) that determines, based on a tendency of the error in each of the plurality of iterations, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training.
2. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein: the machine learning model is a neural network (20) comprising a plurality of layers (21); and the memory (15,15A) stores the error for each of the plurality of layers (21) included in the neural network (20); and the determiner (14,14A,14B) determines the offset amount for each of the plurality of layers (21).
3. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the determiner (14,14A,14B) determines the offset amount of a first layer (21) based on the error of a second layer (21) previous to the first layer (21), the error being stored in the memory (15,15A).
4. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the determiner (14,14A,14B) further specifies an x-th iteration being previous to a t-th iteration (where, t is an integer of 2 or more, and x is an integer less than t) and being similar in a tendency of the error to the t-th iteration of the training for the second layer (21), and wherein
the determiner (14,14A,14B) determines, based on an error of the x-th iteration of the first layer (21), an offset amount of the t-th iteration for the first layer (21).
5. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 3 or 4, wherein determiner (14B) trains a machine learning model for determining an offset amount, using the statistical information (22) of the second layer (21) and the error of the first layer (21), and wherein
the determiner (14B) determines the offset amount of the first layer (21) based on a learning result of the machine learning model for determining the offset amount.
6. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 3 or 4, wherein: the memory (15,15A) stores a feature value obtained from the statistical information (22) in each of the plurality of iterations in association with each other; and the determiner (14,14A,14B) determines the offset amount of the first layer (21), based on a combination of the error and the feature value of the second layer (21) stored in the memory (15,15A).
7. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 3-6, wherein the second layer (21) is one of or a combination of two or more of layers (21) from a leading layer (21a, 21p) to a layer previous one to the first layer in the neural network (20) .
8. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 3-6, wherein the second layer (21) is a leading layer (21a, 21p) in the neural network (20) .
9. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 3-6, wherein the second layer (21) is a leading layer (21) in a block (23) that the first layer (21) belongs to among a plurality of blocks (23) obtained by dividing the plurality of layers (21) in a unit of two or more successive layers (21).
10. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 3-6, wherein the second layer is one of or a combination of two or more of layers from a leading layer to a layer previous one to the first layer in a block (23) that the first layer belongs to among a plurality of blocks (23) obtained by dividing the plurality of layers in a unit of two or more successive layers.
11. A control program causing a computer to execute a process comprising: storing, when a training of a given machine learning model is repeatedly performed in a plurality of iterations, an error of a decimal point position of each of a plurality of fixed-point number data obtained one in each of the plurality of iterations, the error being obtained based on statistical information (22) related to a distribution of leftmost set bit positions for positive number and leftmost unset bit positions for negative number or a distribution of rightmost set bit positions of the plurality of fixed-point number data, into a memory (15,15A); and determining, based on a tendency of the error in each of the plurality of iterations, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training.
12. The control program according to claim 11, wherein: the machine learning model is a neural network (20) comprising a plurality of layers (21); and the process further comprises: storing the error for each of the plurality of layers (21) included in the neural network (20) into the memory (15,15A); and determining the offset amount for each of the plurality of layers (21).
13. The control program according to claim 12, the process further comprising determining the offset amount of a first layer (21) based on the error of a second layer (21) previous to the first layer (21), the error being stored in the memory (15,15A).
14. The control program according to claim 13, the process further comprising: specifying an x-th iteration being previous to a t-th iteration (where, t is an integer of 2 or more, and x is an integer less than t) and being similar in a tendency of the error to the t-th iteration of the training for the second layer(21), and wherein determining, based on an error of the x-th iteration of the first layer (21), an offset amount of the t-th iteration for the first layer (21).
15. A control method that causes a computer to execute a process comprising: storing, when a training of a given machine learning model is repeatedly performed in a plurality of iterations, an error of a decimal point position of each of a plurality of fixed-point number data obtained one in each of the plurality of iterations, the error being obtained based on statistical information (22) related to a distribution of leftmost set bit positions for positive number and leftmost unset bit positions for negative number or a distribution of rightmost set bit positions of the plurality of fixed-point number data, into a memory (15,15A); and determining, based on a tendency of the error in each of the plurality of iterations, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training.
</claims>
</document>
