<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F25D29/00,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, Jae-hong
LEE, Sang-kyung
KIM, Ik-soo
EOM, Myung-jin
JIN, Hee-won
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68164403
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
REFRIGERATOR AND METHOD FOR DISPLAYING USER INTERFACE ON REFRIGERATOR, USER TERMINAL, AND METHOD FOR PERFORMING FUNCTION IN USER TERMINAL
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a refrigerator and a method for displaying a user interface on the refrigerator, a user terminal, and a method for performing a function in the user terminal. The refrigerator according to the present disclosure may include: a storage chamber storing food therein; a temperature detection unit configured to detect the internal temperature of the storage chamber; a cooling unit configured to supply cold air to the storage chamber; a camera configured to photograph food in the storage chamber; a communication unit configured to communicate with a user terminal; a display; at least one processor electrically connected to the temperature detection unit, the camera, the cooling unit, and the communication unit; and a memory electrically connected to the at least one processor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of performing, by a user terminal, a function, the method comprising: performing, upon receiving an image including food, a control operation to display a first user interface for matching the food with a cooking apparatus for cooking the food; performing a control operation to generate matching information in which the food is matched with the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input, on the first user interface, for matching the food with the cooking apparatus; performing a control operation to display a second user interface for setting an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food; and performing a control operation to perform at least one of a function of controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus or a function of transmitting guide information for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input, on the second interface, for setting the operation of the cooking apparatus.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the function of controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus comprises performing a control operation to transmit, to the cooking apparatus, a control command for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the function of transmitting guide information for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus comprises performing a control operation to transmit the guide information to the cooking apparatus or a refrigerator storing the food.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the image including the food is captured in a refrigerator storing the food or a storage storing the food.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a control operation to transmit the generated matching information to a refrigerator,
wherein the performing of the control operation to display the second user interface comprises performing a control operation to display the second user interface for setting an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food, upon receiving, from the refrigerator storing the food or the cooking apparatus, notification information that the food has been moved, based on the transmission of the matching information.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising performing a control operation to display a notification message that the food has been moved, upon receiving the notification information.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining at least one cooking apparatus matchable with the food from among a plurality of cooking apparatuses,
wherein the performing of the control operation to display the first user interface comprises performing a control operation to display the first user interface including the food and the determined at least one cooking apparatus.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing of the control operation to display the first user interface comprises: performing a control operation to display a user interface for matching a plurality of foods with a plurality of cooking apparatuses; and performing a control operation to display a user interface for changing a cooking sequence of each of the matched plurality of foods and each of the plurality of cooking apparatuses.
9. A server comprising: a data transmission unit configured to transmit, upon receiving, from a user terminal a request command requesting an image including food, the request command to a refrigerator corresponding to the user terminal; a data reception unit configured to receive the image including the food from the refrigerator based on the transmission of the request command; and a data processing unit configured to generate information related to a first user interface for matching the food with a cooking apparatus for cooking the food, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to: transmit, through the data transmission unit, the generated information related to the first user interface to the user terminal; generate matching information in which the food is matched with the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input for matching the food with the cooking apparatus based on the information related to the first user interface; generate information related to a second user interface for setting an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food; transmit, through the data transmission unit, the generated information related to the second user interface to the user terminal; and transmit, to the cooking apparatus, a control command for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus or transmit, to the refrigerator, guide information for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input for setting the operation of the cooking apparatus based on the information related to the second user interface.
10. The server of claim 9, wherein the data processing unit is further configured to generate the information related to the second user interface for setting an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food, upon receiving notification information that the food has been moved to the cooking apparatus.
11. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable recording medium comprising at least one instruction to be executed by a processor of a computer to: perform, upon receiving an image including food, a control operation to display a first user interface for matching the food with a cooking apparatus for cooking the food; perform a control operation to generate matching information for matching the food with the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input, on the first user interface, for matching the food with the cooking apparatus; perform a control operation to display a second user interface for setting an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food; and perform at least one of a function of controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus or a function of transmitting guide information for controlling the operation of the cooking apparatus, in response to a user input, on the second user interface, for setting the operation of the cooking apparatus.
12. A refrigerator comprising: a display; a storage chamber storing food therein; a temperature detection unit configured to detect a temperature in the storage chamber; a cooling unit configured to supply cold air to the storage chamber; a camera configured to photograph food in the storage chamber; a communication unit configured to communicate with a user terminal; at least one processor electrically connected to the temperature detection unit, the camera, the cooling unit, and the communication unit; and a memory electrically connected to the at least one processor, wherein the memory stores at least one instruction to be executed by the processor to control the camera to photograph the food stored in the storage chamber, control the communication unit to transmit the image including the photographed food to the user terminal, and control, upon receiving, based on the transmission of the image, matching information for matching the food included in the image with a cooking apparatus, the display to display a user interface for guiding movement of the food to the cooking apparatus matched with the food, based on the matching information.
13. The refrigerator of claim 12, wherein the memory stores at least one instruction to be executed by the processor to control the display to display a user interface for guiding a user to operate the cooking apparatus matched with the food.
14. The refrigerator of claim 12, wherein the memory stores at least one instruction to be executed by the processor to control the communication unit to transmit, to the cooking apparatus, a control command for controlling an operation of the cooking apparatus matched with the food.
15. The refrigerator of claim 12, wherein the memory stores at least one instruction to be executed by the processor to control the communication unit to transmit, to the user terminal, notification information that the food has been moved, in response to withdrawal of the food from the refrigerator based on the guide.
</claims>
</document>
