<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAKASHIMA, Issei
OHTSUKI, Nobuhisa
KOBAYASHI, Makoto
DABA, Hiroaki
IMAIDA, Masayuki
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71138565
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LEARNING SYSTEM, WALKING TRAINING SYSTEM, SYSTEM, METHOD, PROGRAM, AND TRAINED MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
A learning apparatus, a walking training apparatus, a method, a system, a program, and a trained model for performing walking training at appropriate setting parameters are provided. A learning apparatus according to an embodiment includes: a data acquisition unit configured to acquire rehabilitation data from a walking training apparatus including an actuator configured to assist a walking motion of a trainee and a control unit configured to control the actuator in accordance with a setting parameter; and a data generation unit (510a) configured to generate an index indicating a degree of recovery of the trainee and the setting parameter as learning data; and a learning unit (510b) configured to generate a learning model that receives the index and outputs a recommended value of the setting parameter by performing machine learning using the learning data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A learning system comprising: a data acquisition unit (520) configured to acquire rehabilitation data from a walking training system comprising an actuator configured to assist a walking motion of a trainee (900) and a control unit configured to control the actuator in accordance with a setting parameter; and a data generation unit (510a) configured to generate an index indicating a degree of recovery of the trainee and the setting parameter as learning data; and a learning unit (510b) configured to generate a learning model that receives the index and outputs a recommended value of the setting parameter by performing machine learning using the learning data.
2. The learning system according to Claim 1, wherein the learning unit (510b) performs supervised learning using an actual setting value of the setting parameter actually set by a training staff member as teacher data.
3. The learning system according to Claim 1 or 2, wherein the index indicating the degree of recovery of the trainee (900) is a measured value or an estimated value of a level-ground walking FIM of the trainee (900).
4. The learning system according to Claim 3, wherein
a sensor configured to detect data regarding a walking motion of the trainee (900) assisted by the actuator is provided in the walking training system,
the estimated value is estimated in accordance with the results of the detection by the sensor, and
the learning model receives the estimated value of the level-ground walking FIM as input data and outputs the recommended value of the setting parameter.
5. The learning system according to any one of Claims 1 to 4, wherein
a sensor configured to detect data regarding a walking motion of the trainee (900) assisted by the actuator is provided in the walking training system,
the sensor is provided to detect a plurality of motion amounts in the walking motion of the trainee (900),
the walking training system evaluates that the walking motion is abnormal walking when at least one of the motion amounts matches one of predetermined abnormal walking criteria, and
the rehabilitation data includes detection data indicating the results of the evaluation indicating whether the walking motion is the abnormal walking.
6. The learning system according to any one of Claims 1 to 5, wherein
the rehabilitation data includes trainee data regarding the trainee (900),
the trainee (900) is classified into one of groups in accordance with the trainee data, and
the learning unit (510b) generates a learning model for each of the groups.
7. A learning method comprising the steps of: acquiring rehabilitation data from a walking training system comprising an actuator configured to assist a motion of a trainee (900) who performs walking training and a control unit (210) configured to control the actuator in accordance with a setting parameter; generating rehabilitation data including an index indicating the degree of recovery of the trainee (900) and a setting parameter regarding setting of the walking training system as learning data; and performing machine learning using the learning data, thereby generating a learning model that receives the index and outputs the setting parameter.
8. A program for causing a computer to execute the learning method according to Claim 7.
9. A trained model for causing a computer to function so as to output a recommended value of a setting parameter in a walking training system based on rehabilitation data for evaluation acquired by the walking training system,
wherein the trained model is a learning model generated by the learning system according to any one of Claims 1 to 6.
10. A walking training system comprising: an actuator configured to assist a walking motion of a trainee (900); and a control unit (210) configured to control the actuator in accordance with a setting parameter; and a trained model that receives an index indicating a degree of recovery of the trainee (900) as input data and outputs a recommended value of the setting parameter.
11. The walking training system according to Claim 10, wherein the index indicating the degree of recovery of the trainee (900) is a measured value or an estimated value of a level-ground walking FIM of the trainee (900).
12. The walking training system according to Claim 11, comprising: a sensor configured to detect data regarding a walking motion of the trainee (900) assisted by the actuator; and a trained model for walking FIM configured to estimate a level-ground walking FIM of the trainee (900) in accordance with the results of the detection by the sensor, wherein the trained model receives the estimated value of the level-ground walking FIM as input data and outputs the recommended value of the setting parameter.
13. The walking training system according to any one of Claims 10 to 12, wherein
the walking training system determines whether the degree of recovery of the trainee (900) is slower than a target degree of recovery based on the index, and
the walking training system outputs the recommended value of the setting parameter when the degree of recovery of the trainee (900) is slower than the target degree of recovery.
14. The walking training system according to any one of Claims 10 to 13, wherein
a sensor is provided to detect a plurality of motion amounts in the walking motion of the trainee (900),
the walking training system evaluates that the walking motion is abnormal walking when at least one of the motion amounts matches one of predetermined abnormal walking criteria, and
the trained model receives detection data indicating results of the evaluation indicating whether the walking motion is the abnormal walking and outputs the recommended value of the setting parameter.
15. The walking training system according to any one of Claims 10 to 14, wherein
the trainee (900) is classified into one of groups in accordance trainee data regarding the trainee, and
the trained models that differ from one another are set for each of the groups.
</claims>
</document>
