<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU ON-LINE NETWORK TECHNOLOGY (BEIJING) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU, Shi
LIU, Yingnan
RAO, Wenlong
XUE, Jingjing
WANG, Yue
WU, Zelin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64940123
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR CONTROLLING MOBILE ROBOT, APPARATUS, AND CONTROL SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for controlling a mobile robot (105, 106, 301), an apparatus (500), and a control system. The method for controlling a mobile robot (105, 106, 301) comprises: receiving a motion mode change request sent by a target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) (201), the motion mode change request comprising motion mode information, and the motion mode information being information of a motion mode that the target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) requests to change to; determining whether the target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) has the authority to move in the motion mode (202); and in response to determining that the target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) has the authority, sending motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) to control the target mobile robot (105, 106, 301) to move in the motion mode (203). According to the method for controlling a mobile robot (105, 106, 301), the motion safety of the mobile robot (105, 106, 301) is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling a mobile robot, comprising: receiving a motion mode change request sent by a target mobile robot, the motion mode change request comprising motion mode information, and the motion mode information being information of a motion mode to be obtained by change requested by the target mobile robot; determining whether the target mobile robot has a permission to move in the motion mode; and sending motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot to control the target mobile robot to move in the motion mode, in response to determining that the target mobile robot has the permission.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the motion mode change request further comprises an identification of the target mobile robot; and the determining whether the target mobile robot has a permission to move in the motion mode, comprises: inputting the identification into a predetermined motion permission model to obtain motion permission information of the target mobile robot, wherein the motion permission model is configured to represent a corresponding relationship between the identification of the mobile robot and the motion permission information of the mobile robot, and the motion permission information represents any one of: permission, or no permission.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining whether the target mobile robot has a permission to move in the motion mode, comprises: acquiring at least one of location information, or status information of the target mobile robot; and determining whether the target mobile robot has the permission to move in the motion mode, based on the acquired information.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a real-time motion speed, real-time location information, real-time status information, and real-time environment information of the target mobile robot according to a predetermined frequency; and determining whether to send at least one of warning information or a motion mode change instruction to the target mobile robot, based on the real-time motion speed, the real-time location information, the real-time status information, and the real-time environment information.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sending motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot, comprises:
sending the motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot using an over the air technology.
6. The method according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein the motion mode change request comprises any one of:
a start request, a stop request, an acceleration request, a deceleration request, or a turning request.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1-5, wherein the target mobile robot is an autonomous vehicle.
8. An apparatus for controlling a mobile robot, comprising: a receiving unit, configured to receive a motion mode change request sent by a target mobile robot, the motion mode change request comprising motion mode information, and the motion mode information being information of a motion mode to be obtained by change requested by the target mobile robot; a first determining unit, configured to determine whether the target mobile robot has a permission to move in the motion mode; and a sending unit, configured to send motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot to control the target mobile robot to move in the motion mode, in response to determining that the target mobile robot has the permission.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the motion mode change request further comprises an identification of the target mobile robot; and the first determining unit comprises: an input module, configured to input the identification into a predetermined motion permission model to obtain motion permission information of the target mobile robot, wherein the motion permission model is configured to represent a corresponding relationship between the identification of the mobile robot and the motion permission information of the mobile robot, and the motion permission information represents any one of: permission, or no permission.
10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the first determining unit comprises: an acquisition module, configured to acquire at least one of location information, or status information of the target mobile robot; and a determination module, configured to determine whether the target mobile robot has the permission to move in the motion mode, based on the acquired information.
11. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the apparatus further comprises: an acquisition unit, configured to acquire a real-time motion speed, real-time location information, real-time status information, and real-time environment information of the target mobile robot according to a predetermined frequency; and a second determining unit, configured to determine whether to send at least one of warning information or a motion mode change instruction to the target mobile robot, based on the real-time motion speed, the real-time location information, the real-time status information, and the real-time environment information.
12. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the sending unit comprises:
a sending module, configured to send the motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the target mobile robot using an over the air technology.
13. The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-12, wherein the motion mode change request comprises any one of:
a start request, a stop request, an acceleration request, a deceleration request, or a turning request.
14. The apparatus according to any one of claims 8-12, wherein the target mobile robot is an autonomous vehicle.
15. A control system, comprising a mobile robot and a server for providing support to the mobile robot: the mobile robot being configured to: send a motion mode change request to the server, in response to receiving a motion mode change instruction inputted by a user, the motion mode change request comprising motion mode information of a motion mode to be obtained by change requested by the target mobile robot; and the server being configured to: determine whether the mobile robot has a permission to move in the motion mode; and send motion confirmation information for the motion mode change request to the mobile robot, in response to determining that the mobile robot has the permission.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the mobile robot is further configured to:
move in the motion mode.
17. The system according to claim 15 or 16, wherein the server is further configured to: acquire a real-time motion speed, real-time location information, real-time status information, and real-time environment information of the mobile robot according to a predetermined frequency; and determine whether to send at least one of warning information or the motion mode change instruction to the mobile robot, based on the real-time motion speed, the real-time location information, the real-time status information, and the real-time environment information.
18. An electronic device, comprising: one or more processors; and a storage apparatus storing one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to implement the method according to any one of claims 1-7.
19. A computer readable medium storing a computer program, wherein the program, when executed by a processor, implements the method according to any one of claims 1-7 .
</claims>
</document>
