<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F113/10,G06F30/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DASSAULT SYSTEMES SIMULIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OANCEA, Victor George
BI, Jing
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70470786
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MACHINE LEARNING WITH FAST FEATURE GENERATION FOR SELECTIVE LASER MELTING PRINT PARAMETER OPTIMIZATION
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes identifying machine process parameters for an additive manufacturing process to produce a part, providing a real-world sensor to sense a characteristic associated with a real-world version of the additive manufacturing process, receiving sensor readings from the real-world sensor while the machine is performing the real-world version of the additive manufacturing process, generating, with a computer-based processor, physics-based features associated with the additive manufacturing process, and training a machine-learning software model based at least in part on the machine process parameters, the sensor readings, and the physics-based features to predict a behavior of the real-world sensor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying machine process parameters for an additive manufacturing process to produce a part; providing a real-world sensor to sense a characteristic associated with a real-world version of the additive manufacturing process; receiving sensor readings from the real-world sensor while the machine is performing the real-world version of the additive manufacturing process; generating, with a computer-based processor, physics-based features associated with the additive manufacturing process; and training a machine-learning software model based at least in part on the machine process parameters, the sensor readings, and the physics-based features to predict a behavior of the real-world sensor.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a computer-aided design (CAD) model of the part; and producing virtual data about a machine tool path for the additive manufacturing process to produce the part with computer-based software based on the CAD model, wherein generating the physics-based features is based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the physics-based features represent energy delivered into and heat conducted out of a zone of interest during the additive manufacturing process.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the zone of interest is an area on a surface of a powder bed, wherein the zone of interest is concentric with a spot where energy is being introduced into the powder bed at a particular point of time in the additive manufacturing process.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the zone of interest moves and remains concentric with wherever energy is being introduced into the powder bed as the additive manufacturing process progresses.
6. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein generating the physics-based features comprises: generating an energy flux feature, wherein the energy flux feature corresponds to an amount of energy delivered into a zone of interest during a particular period of time in the additive manufacturing process.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein generating the energy flux feature comprises:
integrating, with the computer-based processor, power into the zone of interest during the particular period of time, based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
8. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein generating the physics-based features comprises: generating an effective conduction feature, wherein the effective conduction feature corresponds to an ability to dissipate energy introduced into a zone of interest via thermal conduction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein generating the effective conduction feature comprises:
determining how much of the zone of interest does not receive a direct delivery of energy within a finite window of time based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
10. The method of claim 7 or claim 9, wherein the virtual data about the machine tool path comprises time, location, and power information for a heat source in the additive manufacturing machine.
11. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the machine process parameters comprise power, speed, and scan pattern information associated with the additive manufacturing process.
12. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising:
optimizing the process parameters using a trained version of the machine-learning software application.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein optimizing the process parameters using the trained version of the machine-learning software model comprises:
adjusting the machine process parameters based on information from the machine-learning software model to produce a desired sensor reading at the real-world sensor during the additive manufacturing process.
14. The method of any preceding claim, further comprising: predicting a behavior of the real-world sensor during the additive manufacturing process with the machine-learning software model; comparing the predicted behavior to an actual behavior of the real-world sensor during the additive manufacturing process; and detecting an anomaly in behavior of the real-world sensor based on the comparison.
15. The method of any preceding claim, wherein the additive manufacturing process is three dimensional (3D) printing and wherein the additive manufacturing machine comprises a build platform, a powder bed atop the build platform; and a heat source configured to deliver heat into a surface of the powder bed to create the part.
16. A system comprising: a computer comprising: a computer-based processor; and a computer-based memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the computer-based processor, cause the computer-based processor to generate physics-based features associated with an additive manufacturing process; one or more machines configured to perform a real-world version of the additive manufacturing process based on machine process parameters associated with the additive manufacturing process; a real-world sensor to sense a characteristic associated with the real-world version of the additive manufacturing process; and a machine-learning software model trained to predict a behavior of the real-world sensor based on the physics-based features, the machine process parameters, and sensor readings from the real-world sensor during the real-world-version of the additive manufacturing process.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising: computer-based software for providing a computer-aided design (CAD) model of the part; and computer-based software for producing virtual data about a machine tool path for the additive manufacturing process to produce the part based on the CAD model, wherein the physics-based features are based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
18. The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein the physics-based features represent energy delivered into and heat conducted out of a zone of interest during the additive manufacturing process.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the additive manufacturing machine comprises a powder bed and a heating device to deliver heat into the powder bed,
wherein the zone of interest is an area on a surface of the powder bed, and
wherein the zone of interest is concentric with a spot where energy is being introduced into the powder bed by a heating device at a particular point of time in the additive manufacturing process.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the zone of interest moves and remains concentric with wherever energy is being introduced into the powder bed from the heating device as the additive manufacturing process progresses.
21. The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein generating the physics-based features comprises: generating an energy flux feature, wherein the energy flux feature corresponds to an amount of energy delivered into a zone of interest during a particular period of time in the additive manufacturing process.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein generating the energy flux feature comprises:
integrating, with the computer-based processor, power into the zone of interest during the particular period of time, based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the additive manufacturing machine comprises a heat source to deliver heat into a powder bed, and
wherein the virtual data about the machine tool path comprises time, location, and power information for the heat source in connection with the additive manufacturing process.
24. The system of claim 16 or 17, wherein generating the physics-based features comprises: generating an effective conduction feature, wherein the effective conduction feature corresponds to an ability to dissipate energy introduced into a zone of interest via thermal conduction.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein generating the effective conduction feature comprises:
determining how much of the zone of interest does not receive a direct delivery of energy from a heat source in the additive manufacturing machine within a finite window of time based at least in part on the virtual data about the machine tool path.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the virtual data about the machine tool path comprises time, location, and power information for the heat source in the additive manufacturing machine.
27. The system of any one of claims 16 to 26, wherein the machine process parameters comprise power, speed, and scan pattern information associated with the additive manufacturing process.
28. The system of any one of claims 16 to 27, wherein the additive manufacturing process is three dimensional (3D) printing and wherein the additive manufacturing machine comprises a build platform, a powder bed atop the build platform; and a heat source configured to deliver heat into a surface of the powder bed to create the part.
</claims>
</document>
