<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
An, Kang
Du, Xueliang
Ouyang, Jian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69960322
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS, APPARATUSES, AND MEDIA FOR PROCESSING LOOP INSTRUCTION SET
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provide a method, an apparatus, and a medium for processing a loop instruction set. The method includes: in response to obtaining a first start instruction of the loop instruction set, storing a first loop number related to the loop instruction set into a first register, and storing a value of a first program counter corresponding to a loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set, into a second register. The method further includes: obtaining the loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set for executing the loop instruction. The method further includes: in response to obtaining a first end instruction for indicating an end of the loop instruction set, determining a loop execution for the loop instruction set based on the first loop number and the value of the first program counter.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method (200) for processing a loop instruction set, comprising: in response to obtaining (202) a first start instruction of the loop instruction set, storing (204) a first loop number related to the loop instruction set into a first register, and storing (206) a value of a first program counter corresponding to a loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set, into a second register; obtaining (208) the loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set for executing the loop instruction; and in response to obtaining (210) a first end instruction for indicating an end of the loop instruction set, determining (212) a loop execution for the loop instruction set based on the first loop number in the first register and the value of the first program counter in the second register.
2. The method (300) of claim 1, wherein determining (212) the loop execution for the loop instruction set comprises: in response to obtaining (302) the first end instruction for indicating the end of the loop instruction set, determining (304) whether the first loop number is greater than a threshold; and in response to that the first loop number is greater than the threshold, decreasing (306) the first loop number in the first register, and obtaining (308) the loop instruction corresponding to the value of the first program counter in the second register for re-executing the loop instruction set.
3. The method (300) of claim 2, wherein determining (212) the loop execution for the loop instruction set further comprises:
in response to that the first loop number is not greater than the threshold, obtaining (310) an instruction following the loop instruction set.
4. The method (200; 300) of any one of claims 1 to 3, wherein obtaining (310) the loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set comprises:
in response to obtaining a loop instruction subset, executing the loop instruction subset.
5. The method (200; 300) of claim 4, wherein executing the loop instruction subset comprises: in response to obtaining a second start instruction in the loop instruction subset, storing a second loop number related to the loop instruction subset into a third register, and storing a value of a second program counter corresponding to a sub-loop instruction following the second start instruction in the loop instruction subset, into a fourth register; obtaining the sub-loop instruction following the second start instruction in the loop instruction subset for executing the sub-loop instruction; and in response to obtaining a second end instruction for indicating an end of the loop instruction subset, determining a loop execution for the loop instruction subset based on the second loop number in the third register and the value of the second program counter in the fourth register.
6. An apparatus (400) for processing a loop instruction set, comprising: a first storage module (402), configured to, in response to obtaining a first start instruction of the loop instruction set, store a first loop number related to the loop instruction set into a first register, and store a value of a first program counter corresponding to a loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set, into a second register; a loop instruction obtaining module (404), configured to obtain the loop instruction following the first start instruction in the loop instruction set for executing the loop instruction; and a first loop determining module (406), configured to, in response to obtaining a first end instruction for indicating an end of the loop instruction set, determine a loop execution for the loop instruction set based on the first loop number in the first register and the value of the first program counter in the second register.
7. The apparatus (400) of claim 6, wherein the first loop determining module (406) comprises: a loop number comparing module, configured to, in response to obtaining the first end instruction for indicating the end of the loop instruction set, determine whether the first loop number is greater than a threshold; and a number decreasing and obtaining module, configured to, in response to that the first loop number is greater than the threshold, decrease the first loop number in the first register, and obtain the loop instruction corresponding to the value of the first program counter in the second register for re-executing the loop instruction set.
8. The apparatus (400) of claim 7, wherein the first loop determining module (406) further comprises:
an instruction obtaining module, configured to obtain an instruction following the loop instruction set in response to that the first loop number is not greater than the threshold.
9. The apparatus (400) of any one of claims 6 to 8, wherein the loop instruction obtaining module (404) further comprises:
a sub-loop instruction set executing module, configured to, in response to obtaining a loop instruction subset, execute the loop instruction subset.
10. The apparatus (400) of claim 9, wherein the sub-loop instruction set executing module comprises: a second storage module, configured to, in response to obtaining a second start instruction in the loop instruction subset, store a second loop number related to the loop instruction subset into a third register, and store a value of a second program counter corresponding to a sub-loop instruction following the second start instruction in the loop instruction subset, into a fourth register; a sub-loop instruction obtaining module, configured to obtain the sub-loop instruction following the second start instruction in the loop instruction subset for executing the next sub-loop instruction; and a second loop determining module, configured to, in response to obtaining a second end instruction for indicating an end of the loop instruction subset, determine a loop execution for the loop instruction subset based on the second loop number in the third register and the value of the second program counter in the fourth register.
11. A computer-readable medium having a computer program stored thereon, wherein the method according to any one of claims 1-5 is implemented when the computer program is executed by a processor.
</claims>
</document>
