<document>

<filing_date>
2015-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/10,G06Q50/16,G06Q50/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELOS LIVING
</assignee>

<inventors>
STODOLA, Nathan
STEWART, Shaun B.
MACARY, Richard A.
PILLAI, Dana S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54009575
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEMS, METHODS, AND ARTICLES FOR ENHANCING WELLNESS ASSOCIATED WITH HABITABLE ENVIRONMENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Environmental characteristics of habitable environments (e.g., hotel or motel rooms, spas, resorts, cruise boat cabins, offices, hospitals and/or homes, apartments or residences) are controlled to eliminate, reduce or ameliorate adverse or harmful aspects and introduce, increase or enhance beneficial aspects in order to improve a 'wellness' or sense of 'wellbeing' provided via the environments. Control of intensity and wavelength distribution of passive and active Illumination addresses various issues, symptoms or syndromes, for instance to maintain a circadian rhythm or cycle, adjust for 'jet lag' or season affective disorder, etc.. Air quality and attributes are controlled. Scent(s) may be dispersed. Noise is reduced and sounds (e.g., masking, music, natural) may be provided. Environmental and biometric feedback is provided. Experimentation and machine learning are used to improve health outcomes and wellness standards.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operation in an environmental control system which includes at least one processor, at least one nontransitory processor-readable medium communicatively coupled to the at least one processor and which stores at least one of instructions or data executable by the at least one processor, and a plurality of active subsystems operable to effect a condition in a habitable space, the method comprising: storing a plurality of programs in a database, the programs including instructions to cause the at least one processor to automatically generate signals to control at least two of the plurality of active subsystems; identifying a particular occupant present in or scheduled to occupy the habitable space; identifying at least one trait associated with the particular occupant; selecting at least one of the plurality of programs based the at least one trait of the particular occupant; collecting habitable space wellness data that includes, for at least the habitable space, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective habitable space; and adjusting, by the at least one processor, an operational parameter of at least two of the active subsystems based on both the collected habitable space wellness data and the at least one selected program.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the at least one trait associated with the occupant includes one or more syndromes, aliments, or conditions for which the condition in the habitable space may be adjusted to alleviate or treat.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the program specifies at least one pattern for at least one of air temperature, relative humidity, sound, scents, and other ambient environmental characteristics for different times throughout a daily cycle.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the program specifies two or more patterns are synchronized with one another.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the particular occupant present in or scheduled to occupy the habitable space includes entering an occupant identifier via an input device, panel, or kiosk.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein identifying the occupant present in or scheduled to occupy the habitable space includes reading an occupant identifier from a piece of media.
7. The method of claim 2 wherein the program includes instructions to cause the at least one processor to automatically generate signals to control at least one of the plurality of active subsystems to alleviate the one or more syndromes, aliments, or conditions.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether a change has been made to an operational parameter of at least one of the active subsystems; and generating a new program including the changed operational parameter of the at least one of the active subsystems.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising:
identifying at least one pattern in the collected habitable space wellness data via at least one machine learning algorithm executed by the at least one processor.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising:
determining, by the at least one processor, at least one adjustment to at least one operational parameter based on the identified pattern in the collected habitable space wellness data.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein collecting habitable space wellness data includes receiving, by the at least one processor, information automatically collected by at least one sensor in the respective habitable space.
12. The method of claim 11 wherein the at least one sensor in the respective habitable space includes an air quality sensor, a temperature sensor, or a humidity sensor to detect air quality parameters in the respective habitable space.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising
collecting personal wellness data that includes, for each of at least one individual who from time-to-time occupies the at least one habitable space, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective individual; and
adjusting, by the at least one processor, the operational parameters of at least two of the active subsystems based, in part, on the collected personal wellness data,
wherein the at least one sensor in the respective habitable space includes at least of an audio transducer to detect ambient sound levels in the respective habitable space, a light sensor to detect at least one of a light level or a color index of light in the respective habitable space.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting personal wellness data that includes, for each of at least one individual who from time-to-time occupies the at least one habitable space, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective individual; and adjusting, by the at least one processor, the operational parameters of at least two of the active subsystems based, in part, on the collected personal wellness data.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein collecting personal wellness data from the at least one individual via one or more biometric sensors includes collecting personal wellness data via at least one of a temperature sensor operable to detect a temperature of the at least one individual, a scale operable to detect a weight of the at least one individual, a heart rate sensor operable to detect a heart rate of the at least one individual, a blood oxygen sensor operable to detect a level of blood oxygen of the at least one individual, a respiratory cycle sensor operable to detect at least one characteristic of a respiratory cycle of the at least one individual, an electroencephalography (EEG) sensor operable to detect at least one brainwave pattern of the at least one individual.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein collecting personal wellness data further includes collecting personal wellness data via at least one survey completed by individuals who from time-to-time occupy the respective habitable space.
17. The method of claim 1 wherein the wellness data includes, for each of a plurality of habitable spaces, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective habitable space; and wherein the method further comprises: evaluating the collected wellness data via the at least one processor; and updating at least one wellness standard for habitable spaces based on the evaluation.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising providing certification to at least one building having habitable spaces that meet the at least one updated wellness standard,
wherein updating at least one wellness standard for habitable spaces based on the identified at least one pattern includes updating at least one of a plurality of wellness standards, each of the wellness standards representative of a respective one of a plurality of levels of certification.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: providing a second level of certification to at least one building having habitable spaces that meet a second one of the at least one updated wellness standard, the second one of the at least one updated wellness standard more stringent than the first one of the at least one updated wellness standard; and providing a third level of certification to at least one building having habitable spaces that meet a third one of the at least one updated wellness standard, the third one of the at least one updated wellness standard more stringent than the second one of the at least one updated wellness standard.
20. The method of claim 17, further comprising: from time-to-time, causing at least one characteristic in each of a number of the plurality of habitable spaces to change; subsequently collecting wellness data that includes, for each of at least the number of the plurality of habitable spaces, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective habitable space after the change; and performing machine learning based at least in part on the subsequently collected wellness data to evaluate the subsequently collected wellness data.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the wellness data includes, for each of a plurality of habitable spaces, at least one wellness parameter indicative of a wellness associated with the respective habitable space; and wherein the method further comprises: evaluating the collected wellness data via the at least one processor to identify at least one pattern; and selecting the at least one of the plurality of programs based, in part, on the at least one pattern.
22. An environmental control system that performs the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
