<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/055,A61B6/03,A61B8/14,G01T1/161
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON MEDICAL SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAKESHIMA, Hidenori
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66631722
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MEDICAL DATA PROCESSING DEVICE, MAGNETIC RESONANCE IMAGING DEVICE, AND LEARNED MODEL GENERATION METHOD
</title>

<abstract>
A medical data processing apparatus includes a memory unit and a processing unit. The memory unit stores a learned model including an input layer to which first MR data and second MR data having the same imaging target as the first MR data and an imaging parameter different from the first MR data are inputted, an output layer from which third MR data is output with a missing portion of the first MR data restored, and at least one intermediate layer arranged between the input layer and the output layer. The processing unit generates third MR data relating to the subject, from the first MR data serving as a process target and relating to the subject and the second MR data relating to the subject and acquired by an imaging parameter different from the first MR data serving as the process target, in accordance with the learned model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical data processing apparatus comprising: a memory unit configured to store a learned model including an input layer to which first MR data and second MR data relating to an imaging target the same as the first MR data and an imaging parameter different from the first MR data are inputted, an output layer from which third MR data is output with a missing portion of the first MR data restored, and at least one intermediate layer arranged between the input layer and the output layer; and a processing unit configured to generate the third MR data relating to a subject in accordance with the learned model, from the first MR data serving as a process target and relating to the subject and the second MR data relating to the subject and acquired by an imaging parameter different from the first MR data serving as the process target.
2. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first MR data and the second MR data are k-space data, or MR image data generated by performing a restoration process on the k-space data.
3. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the restoration process includes denoising restoration or data error feedback restoration.
4. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the imaging parameter includes at least one of a slice position, acquisition time, acquisition sequence, k-space trajectory, and temporal resolution.
5. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein an amount of under-sampled data is larger in the first MR data than in the second MR data.
6. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each of the first MR data and the second MR data is inputted as a single input vector to the learned model.
7. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein
the first MR data is assigned to a first region of the input vector,
the second MR data is assigned to a second region of the input vector, and
positions of the first region and the second region are fixed.
8. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein
the second MR data includes a plurality of sets of MR data having different imaging parameters, and
each of the sets of second MR data is assigned to a fixed region of the second region of the input vector.
9. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, the apparatus further comprising a training unit configured to generate estimated output data by applying the first MR data and the second MR data to a parameter-added composite function obtained by combining a plurality of functions and to generate the learned model updating parameters of the parameter-added composite function such that the estimated output data and true output data approximate each other.
10. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, the apparatus further comprising a selecting unit configured to select an imaging body part in accordance with user's instructions,
wherein the processor switches learned models in accordance with the selected imaging body part.
11. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein
the imaging parameter includes a first parameter and a second parameter,
the first MR data and the second MR data share the first parameter and have different second parameters,
the first MR data and the third MR data share the first parameter and the second parameter,
the second MR data and the third MR data share the first parameter and have different second parameters, and
the third MR data includes less data deficit or higher image quality than the first MR data.
12. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein
the first parameter represents a slice position, and the second parameter represents an acquisition time, acquisition sequence, k-space trajectory and temporal resolution.
13. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein
the first parameter represents at least one of acquisition sequence, k-space trajectory and temporal resolution, and
the second parameter represents a slice position.
14. The medical data processing apparatus according to claim 11, wherein
the first parameter represents a slice position and an EPI acquisition sequence, and
the second parameter represents a value b of the acquisition sequence.
15. A magnetic resonance imaging apparatus comprising: a memory unit configured to store a learned model including an input layer to which first k-space data or MR image data, and second k-space data or MR image data relating to an imaging target the same as the first k-space data or MR image data and an imaging parameter different from the first k-space data or MR image data are inputted, an output layer from which third k-space data or MR image data having a missing portion of the first k-space data or MR image data restored is output, and at least one intermediate layer arranged between the input layer and the output layer, an acquiring unit configured to acquire first k-space data relating to a first imaging parameter and second k-space data relating to a second imaging parameter that is different from the first imaging parameter, by performing MR imaging on a subject, and a processing unit configured to generate third k-space data or MR image data relating to the subject in accordance with the learned model, from the acquired k-space data or the MR image data based on the acquired k-space data and the acquired second k-space data or the MR image data based on the acquired k-space data.
16. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein
the acquiring unit acquires k-space data of time-series frames, and
the processing unit selects k-space data of one first frame as the first k-space data, and k-space data of one or more second frames as the second k-space data, from the k-space data of the frames.
17. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 15, wherein
the acquiring unit acquires k-space data of time-series frames including the first k-space data and the second k-space data, and
the processing unit selects k-space data of one first frame as the first k-space data from the k-space data of the frames, generates k-space data of a plurality of second frames having a different acquisition time and/or temporal resolution based on the k-space data of the frames, and selects the k-space data of the second frames as the second k-space data.
18. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the processing unit is configured to: generate input MR image data of the first frame based on the k-space data of the first frame, k-space data of the second frames based on the k-space data of the frames, and input MR image data of the second frames based on the k-space data of the second frames, and generate output MR image data of the first frame as the third MR data from the input MR image data of the first frame and the input MR image data of the second frames in accordance with the learned model.
19. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 17, wherein
the frames and the first frame have a first temporal resolution level, and
the second frames have a second temporal resolution level lower than the first temporal resolution level.
20. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 19, wherein
the first temporal resolution level has a temporal resolution corresponding to one imaging frame,
the second temporal resolution level has a temporal resolution corresponding to two imaging frames or more,
the second frames include N(N+1)/2 frames, and
the second frames in each n-th temporal resolution level from a temporal resolution level corresponding to N imaging frames to a temporal resolution level corresponding to two imaging frames include (N+1-n) frames.
21. The magnetic resonance imaging apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the first k-space data is included in the second k-space data.
22. A learned model generating method comprising: generating estimated output data by applying first MR data and second MR data relating to an imaging target the same as the first MR data and an imaging parameter different from the first MR data to a parameter-added composite function obtained by combining a plurality of functions; and generating a learned model by updating the parameter of the parameter-added composite function such that the estimated output data and true output data having a missing portion of the first MR data restored approximate each other.
</claims>
</document>
