<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/12,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAEKI, Takashi
GUPTA, Chetan
WANG, Qiyao
WANG, Haiyan
SERITA, Susumu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69844429
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AN OPERATING ENVELOPE RECOMMENDATION SYSTEM WITH GUARANTEED PROBABILISTIC COVERAGE
</title>

<abstract>
Example implementations described herein involve systems and methods involving a plurality of sensors monitoring one or more processes, the sensors providing sensor data, which can include determining a probability map of the sensor data from a database and a functional relationship between key performance indicators (KPIs) of the one or more processes and the sensor data; executing a search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship; and generating a recommendation for the one or more processes that fit within the constrained and continuous range of the sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a system involving a plurality of sensors monitoring one or more processes, the sensors providing sensor data, the method comprising: determining a probability map of the sensor data from a database (803) and a functional relationship between key performance indicators (KPIs) of the one or more processes and the sensor data; executing a search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship; generating a recommendation for the one or more processes that fit within the constrained and continuous range of the sensor data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the executing the search on the probability map comprises executing a genetic search algorithm on the probability map.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the executing the search on the probability map comprises conducting a summation across probabilities of the probability map in comparison to an average of the KPIs.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the functional relationship between KPIs of the one or more processes and the sensor data comprises utilizing a parametric method to learn parameters indicative of the functional relationship based on historical data of the sensors, and generating the functional relationship based on known parameters and the learned parameters.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the functional relationship between KPIs comprises applying sample average approximation on historical data of the sensors to determine an average for the KPIs.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the executing the search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship comprises applying a penalty on the search for found ranges not being constrained or continuous.
7. A non-transitory computer readable medium, storing instructions for a system involving a plurality of sensors monitoring one or more processes, the sensors providing sensor data, the instructions comprising: determining a probability map of the sensor data from a database (803) and a functional relationship between key performance indicators (KPIs) of the one or more processes and the sensor data; executing a search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship; generating a recommendation for the one or more processes that fit within the constrained and continuous range of the sensor data.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the executing the search on the probability map comprises executing a genetic search algorithm on the probability map.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the executing the search on the probability map comprises conducting a summation across probabilities of the probability map in comparison to an average of the KPIs.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the determining the functional relationship between KPIs of the one or more processes and the sensor data comprises utilizing a parametric method to learn parameters indicative of the functional relationship based on historical data of the sensors, and generating the functional relationship based on known parameters and the learned parameters.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the determining the functional relationship between KPIs comprises applying sample average approximation on historical data of the sensors to determine an average for the KPIs.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein the executing the search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship comprises applying a penalty on the search for found ranges not being constrained or continuous.
13. A system comprising: a plurality of sensors monitoring one or more processes, the sensors providing sensor data; and a processor (910), configured to: determine a probability map of the sensor data from a database (803) and a functional relationship between key performance indicators (KPIs) of the one or more processes and the sensor data; execute a search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship; generate a recommendation for the one or more processes that fit within the constrained and continuous range of the sensor data.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor (910) is configured to execute the search on the probability map by executing a genetic search algorithm on the probability map.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor (910) is configured to execute the search on the probability map by conducting a summation across probabilities of the probability map in comparison to an average of the KPIs.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor (910) is configured to determine the functional relationship between KPIs of the one or more processes and the sensor data by utilizing a parametric method to learn parameters indicative of the functional relationship based on historical data of the sensors, and generating the functional relationship based on known parameters and the learned parameters.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor (910) is configured to determine the functional relationship between KPIs by applying sample average approximation on historical data of the sensors to determine an average for the KPIs.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor (910) is configured to execute the search on the probability map to determine constrained and continuous ranges for the sensor data that optimize KPIs for the one or more processes based on the functional relationship by applying a penalty on the search for found ranges not being constrained or continuous.
</claims>
</document>
