<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Presize UG
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOMOV, TOMISLAV
SZELI, Leon
SHAFIQUE, Awais
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66770180
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR DETERMINING BODY MEASUREMENTS AND PROVIDING CLOTHING SIZE RECOMMENDATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides at least a method for determining at least one body measurement by obtaining a plurality of images, in particular a video, of a user. The video can be easily acquired by the user or a friend using a mobile device comprising a camera, such as a digital camera, a smartphone, a table computer and/or the like. Optionally, the invention also provides generating a clothing size recommendation based at least on the determined at least one body measurement. The clothing size recommendation may take additional parameters into account. Both for the determining of the body measurements and/or for the generating of the clothing size recommendation, artificial intelligence entities, in particular machine learning entities, more particular artificial neural networks may be used. Preferably, return information comprising ratings of users of whether and how well certain items of clothing fit them in the past is collected and used for the training of an artificial intelligence entity. Further methods, systems, devices, computer program products, data storage media and data streams are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining at least one body measurement of a person, comprising at least the steps of: - obtaining (S10) a plurality of images of the person (2), wherein the images in the plurality of images show the person (2) from at least two different angles (F+, F-, SL, SR); - selecting (S20) at least a sub-set of the received plurality of images to provide first input images; - generating (S30) segmentation maps (3) for the first input images, wherein the segmentation maps (3) at least distinguish the person (3) from a background (4); - determining (S60; S140) at least one body measurement of the person based at least on the generated segmentation maps (3).
2. The method of claim 1,
wherein the plurality of images of the person (2) is a video of the person (2) or is extracted from a video of the person (2).
3. The method of claim 2,
wherein the obtaining (S10) of the plurality of images comprises:
acquiring the video of the person (2) by filming the person (2) while the person (2) is at least partially turning around their longitudinal axis (A).
4. The method of any of claims 1 to 3, further comprising: selecting (S100) at least a sub-set of the first input images to provide second input images; determining (S110), in order to estimate a shape and/or pose of the person (2) in each of the second input images, a corresponding parameter value θki for each image k of the second input images and for each parameter of a set of pre-defined parameters θi by fitting a parametric human body model to the person (2) in each of the second input images based on the generated segmentation maps (3); generating (S120) an input tensor based on the determined parameter values θki; inputting (S130) the input tensor into an artificial neural network configured and trained to infer at least one body measurement based on the input tensor; generating (S140), by the artificial neural network, at least one body measurement based on the input tensor.
5. The method of any of claims 1 to 4,
comprising: selecting (S41) at least a subset of the first input images to provide third input images; determining (S42) locations for a number of pre-defined key points (Ki) on the human body by inputting the third input images into an artificial neural network configured and trained to infer the location for the key points (Ki) based on the input third input images; determining (S46), based on the determined locations for the key points (Ki), a subset of the first input images so as to provide fourth input images such that each of the fourth input images corresponds to one view of a set of pre-defined views of the person from different angles; generating (S48), for each of the fourth input images, a silhouette of the person (2) therein; and determining (S60) at least one body measurement for the person (2) by inputting the determined locations for the key points (Ki) and the generated silhouettes into a body measurement determining model.
6. A computer-implemented method for providing a clothing size recommendation (REC) for a person, comprising: generating (S60; S140) at least one body measurement according to the method of any of claims 1 to 5; inputting (S200) the at least one body measurement into a clothing size recommendation model configured to generate a clothing size recommendation (REC) based on the at least one body measurement; and generating (S210), by the size recommendation model, the clothing size recommendation (REC) based on the at least one body measurement.
7. The method of claim 6,
comprising the step of
receiving or retrieving clothing item information (CII) indicating at least one property of an item of clothing; and
wherein the clothing size recommendation (REC) is generated also based on the clothing item information (CII).
8. The method of claim 7,
wherein the clothing item information (CII) indicates properties of at least two different sizings of an item of clothing, and wherein the clothing size recommendation (REC) includes, for at least one of the at least two different sizings, a recommendation information of fitting or non-fitting of said at least one sizing for the person (2).
9. The method of any of claims 6 to 8,
comprising the step of
receiving or retrieving return information (RI) indicating at least one item of clothing which has been labelled as being of a wrong size or poor fit for a user;
wherein the return information (RI) further indicates at least one property of said returned at least one item of clothing; and
wherein the clothing size recommendation (REC) is generated also based on the return information (RI).
10. The method of any of claims 6 to 9,
wherein the clothing size recommendation model comprises a learning sub-model, LSM, and a non-learning sub-model, NLSM;
wherein a weighted sum of an output of the LSM and of an output of the NLSM is calculated to provide a fitting score vector; and
wherein the clothing size recommendation (REC) is generated based at least on the provided fitting score vector.
11. The method of claim 10,
wherein at least one weighting factor for the weighted sum for a clothing size recommendation (REC) regarding a particular item of clothing is variable and is based on a number of datasets available for said particular item of clothing, wherein the datasets include at least one information about at least one body measurement of a user (10) and at least one information about how said particular item of clothing fits said user (10).
12. The method of claim 10 or 11,
wherein the NLSM is based at least on a distance metric between: a) at least one parameter of at least one item of clothing, and b) at least one of the parameter value θki and/or at least one entry of the input tensor.
13. The method of any of claims 10 to 12,
wherein the LSM comprises an artificial intelligence entity configured and trained to receive the input tensor as an input and to output a first fit rating vector of the same dimensions as a second fit rating vector output by the NLSM and/or to output a fit score.
14. A computer-implemented method for training an artificial intelligence entity for use in the method according to any of claims 1 to 13.
15. A system (5) configured to perform the method of any of claims 1 to 13.
</claims>
</document>
