<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/64,G06Q20/02,G06Q20/04,G06Q20/06,G06Q20/36,G06Q20/38,H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/14,H04L9/32,H04W12/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, Yi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59469038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
KEY ESTABLISHMENT AND DATA SENDING METHOD AND APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
The present application discloses a data sending method for solving the problem of low data security in an existing data exchange process. The method includes: writing, by a data transaction platform, a data transaction agreement achieved between a first user and a second user into a block chain and storing the agreement; receiving, by a data exchange platform, a first key sent by a first terminal and used for decrypting encrypted first data, the first terminal being a terminal corresponding to the first user; sending, by the first terminal, the encrypted first data to a second terminal, the second terminal being a terminal corresponding to the second user; sending, by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal; and decrypting, by the second terminal, the received encrypted first data based on the first key to obtain the first data. The present application further discloses a data sending apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for sending first data from a first terminal directly to a second terminal, comprising: receiving and publishing, by a data exchange platform, data information associated with first data issued by the first terminal associated with a first user; receiving, at the data exchange platform, an order placing request for the published data information by a second terminal associated with a second user, and sending the request to the first terminal, wherein the order is associated with exchanging the first data from the first user and second data from the second user; and receiving, by the data exchange platform, confirmation information sent by the first terminal for the order placing request to achieve a data exchange agreement between the first user and the second user that is to be stored in a block chain; receiving (102), by the data exchange platform, a first key sent by the first terminal and used for decrypting encrypted first data; sending (103), by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal, such that the second terminal, after receiving the encrypted first data sent by the first terminal, decrypts the received encrypted first data based on the first key to obtain the first data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
writing and storing, by the data exchange platform, the data exchange agreement achieved between the first user and the second user into the block chain, wherein the data exchange agreement includes feature information of exchanged data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the first key to the second terminal further comprises:
when it is verified, by the data exchange platform, that third data received by the data exchange platform from the second terminal complies with the data exchange agreement, sending, by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal, such that the second terminal, after receiving the encrypted first data sent by the first terminal, decrypts the received encrypted first data based on the first key to obtain the first data, wherein the third data is the to-be-exchanged data from the second user for receiving the first data from the first user
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising:
sending, by the data exchange platform, the third data to the first terminal when a data sending instruction sent by the second terminal is received, wherein the third data are the to-be-exchanged data from the second user referred in the data exchange agreement, wherein the third data is exchanged through the data exchange platform to the first user (550).
5. The method of claim 1, wherein before the step of sending the first key to the second terminal, the method further comprises: receiving, by the data exchange platform, a second key sent by the second terminal and used for decrypting encrypted second data; and after the step of sending, by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal, the method further comprises sending, by the data exchange platform, the second key to the first terminal, such that the first terminal, after receiving the encrypted second data sent by the second terminal, decrypts the received encrypted second data based on the second key to obtain the second data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein after the step of sending, by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal and before the step of sending the second key to the first terminal, the method further comprises receiving, by the data exchange platform, confirmation information forthe first data sent by the second terminal, the confirmation information for the first data indicating that the second user determines that the first data conforms to the description in the agreement.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein after the step of receiving, by the data exchange platform, confirmation information sent by the second terminal forthe first data, the method further comprises receiving, by the data exchange platform,
confirmation information sent by the first terminal for the second data, the confirmation information for the second data indicating that the first user determines that the second data conforms to the description in the agreement.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein after the step of receiving, by the data exchange platform, confirmation information sent by the first terminal forthe second data, the method further comprising writing and storing, by the data exchange platform, a record that the exchange is accomplished into a result of the data exchange agreement in the block chain.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein after sending, by the data exchange platform, the first key to the second terminal, the method further comprises sending, by the data exchange platform, the third data to the first user when it is determined that a preset condition is met.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining that the preset condition is met specifically comprises receiving, by the data exchange platform, a data sending instruction sent by the second terminal, the data sending instruction being an instruction for instructing the data exchange platform to send the third data to the first terminal.
11. The method of any one of claims 2-10, wherein: the data exchange agreement comprises feature information of the first data; the method further comprises obtaining, by the second terminal, the feature information, and determining, according to the feature information, whether the acquired first data conforms to the record in the agreement; and the feature information of the first data comprises at least one of the following: a message digest for verifying integrity of the first data; and baseline information for summarizing specific content of the first data.
12. The method of any one of claims 2-10, wherein the encrypted first data is transmitted to the second terminal by the first terminal implementing a standard transmission interface, and the standard transmission interface comprises a universal interface defined by the data exchange platform and used for transmitting data between terminals.
13. The method of any of claims 1 to 11, wherein a transmission state of the first encrypted data is determined to include whether first encrypted data has been transmitted or has not been transmitted to the second terminal, wherein determining the transmission state of the first encrypted data includes receiving the transmission state of the first encrypted data actively reported by the first terminal and the second terminal.
14. The method of claim 1 to 4, wherein the third data is data represents money, and therein the first user is a data seller, and the second user is a data buyer.
15. A data sending system comprising at least a first terminal, a second terminal and a data exchange platform configured to perform the method of any one of claims 1-14.
</claims>
</document>
