<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S3/74,G10L15/04,G10L15/28,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Luxrobo Co., Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAEK, Seungmin
SON, Seungbae
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66281088
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION-BASED VOICE RECOGNITION SYSTEM THROUGH VOICE COMMAND
</title>

<abstract>
An object of the present invention is to facilitate recognition of a voice command of a user in a situation where multiple devices including microphones are connected through a sensor network. A relative location of each device is determined and a location and a direction of the user are tracked through a time difference in which the voice command is applied. The command is interpreted based on the location and the direction of the user. Such a method as a method for a sensor network, Machine to Machine (M2M), Machine Type Communication (MTC), and Internet of Things (IoT) may be used for an intelligent service (smart home, smart building, etc.), digital education, security and safety related services, and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A location-based voice recognition system comprising: a plurality of voice command receiving devices including at least one microphone; and a sensor network control device connected with the plurality of voice command receiving devices through a sensor network, wherein the sensor network control device includes a sensor location determining unit determining relative locations of the plurality of voice command receiving devices, a user location calculating unit calculating a location of a user based on the relative locations, an utterance direction calculating unit calculating a converted voice magnitude based on voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices and determining an utterance direction range of the user based on the converted voice magnitude, and a target device selecting unit selecting a target voice command receiving device as a target of a voice command among the plurality of voice command receiving devices according to the utterance direction range, the converted voice magnitude is a voice magnitude when it is assumed that the plurality of voice command receiving devices is at the same distance from the user.
2. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the utterance direction calculating unit acquires the voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices by using a sound attenuation model and thereafter, calculates the converted voice magnitude based on the voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices.
3. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 2, wherein the sound attenuation model is based on an influence of a housing of the voice command receiving device or directivity of the microphone.
4. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, further comprising:
a control unit transmitting a control signal for the target voice command receiving device.
5. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the sensor location determining unit calculates and determines the relative locations of the plurality of voice command receiving devices based on a magnitude of a beacon signal of at least one voice command receiving device among the plurality of voice command receiving devices.
6. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the sensor location determining unit receives locations of the plurality of voice command receiving devices from the user and calculates and determines the relative locations of the plurality of voice command receiving devices.
7. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the user location calculating unit calculates the location of the user by using a difference in applying time between voice commands applied to the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices.
8. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein an utterance direction range of the user is determined as a predetermined range centering on the direction in which the converted voice magnitude is largest.
9. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein when a voice command receiving device which is in the direction in which the converted voice magnitude is largest and a voice command receiving device in which the converted voice magnitude is second largest are neighboring to each other, the utterance direction range of the user is determined as a predetermined range centering on a weight center or intermediate angle between the voice command receiving device which is in the direction in which the converted voice magnitude is largest and the voice command receiving device which is in the direction in which the converted voice magnitude is second largest.
10. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the target device selecting unit selects a voice command receiving device within the utterance direction range among the plurality of voice command receiving devices as the target voice command receiving device.
11. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the target device selecting unit receives a location of an additional element and selects the target voice command receiving device based on the location of the additional element.
12. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the target device selecting unit includes a target device learning unit and a target device determining unit and the target device learning unit includes attribute information including relative or absolute location information of the voice command receiving devices 210 and 220, information for functions, clustering information, an operation sequence of the functions, and a voice command history.
13. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 12, wherein the voice command history includes user information, an utterance direction, utterance contents, and whether to succeed in the voice command and is stored whenever the voice command is uttered.
14. The location-based voice recognition system of claim 1, wherein the control unit transmits the control signal when the user utters the voice command in a specific utterance direction at a specific location.
15. A location-based voice recognition method in a location-based voice recognition system including a plurality of voice command receiving devices including at least one microphone and a sensor network control device connected with the plurality of voice command receiving devices through a sensor network, the method comprising: determining relative locations of the plurality of voice command receiving devices; calculating a location of a user based on the relative locations; calculating a converted voice magnitude based on voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices and determining an utterance direction range of the user based on the converted voice magnitude; and selecting a target voice command receiving device as a target of a voice command among the plurality of voice command receiving devices according to the utterance direction range, wherein the converted voice magnitude is a voice magnitude when it is assumed that the plurality of voice command receiving devices is at the same distance from the user.
16. The location-based voice recognition method of claim 15, wherein the determining of the utterance direction range of the user includes acquiring the voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices by using a sound attenuation model and thereafter, calculating the converted voice magnitude based on the voice magnitudes of the plurality of respective voice command receiving devices.
17. The location-based voice recognition method of claim 16, wherein the sound attenuation model is based on an influence of a housing of the voice command receiving device or directivity of the microphone.
18. The location-based voice recognition method of claim 15, wherein the selecting of the target voice command receiving device includes selecting a voice command receiving device within the utterance direction range among the plurality of voice command receiving devices as the target voice command receiving device.
19. The location-based voice recognition method of claim 15, wherein the selecting of the target voice command receiving device includes receiving a location of an additional element and selecting the target voice command receiving device based on the location of the additional element.
</claims>
</document>
