<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/861,H04L12/863,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MACHULSKY, Georgy
BSHARA, Naffa
BARRETT, Brian William
SHALEV, Leah
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57822100
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
NETWORKING TECHNOLOGIES
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are systems and methods for connection establishment over a network that does not require a user application to establish an explicit connection with a target application. In some implementations, provided is an apparatus configured to communicate with a network and a host device. The apparatus may receive a message and destination information associated with the message from the host device. The apparatus may further determine, using the destination information, a transport context from a plurality of transport contexts. The transport context may include a state of a connection with a destination on the network. The destination on the network may be associated with the destination information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a host device, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled with and readable by the processor, wherein the memory is configured to store a user application; and a network adapter device configured to communicate with a network; wherein the host device is configured to execute the user application, wherein the user application is configured to provide a message to the network adapter device, wherein the message includes a reference to a transport context; wherein the network adapter device is configured to: determine a transport context for the message using the reference to a transport context, wherein the transport context associates a transmitting application with a receiving application on a second host device on the network, wherein the user application is the transmitting application, and wherein the transport context provides a destination address for the second host device; determine, using the transport context, to use a transport service that enables guaranteed out-of-order transmission of packets without a dedicated connection, wherein using the transport service includes: generating a plurality of packets for the message, each packet from the plurality of packets including the destination address and a portion of the message; adding the plurality of packets to a packet flow associated with the transport context, wherein each packet in the packet flow is assigned a sequence number; transmitting the plurality of packets over the network; receiving a response over the network, wherein the response indicates a status of one or more packets sent from the plurality of packets, wherein the one or more packets are identified in the response by a sequence number; and reporting the status of the one or more packets to the transmitting application.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the response indicates that one or more packets were received at the second host device; or
wherein the response indicates that one or more packets were not received, and wherein the network adapter device is further configured to retransmit the one or more packets that were indicated as not received at the second host device; or
wherein the response indicates that one or more packets were dropped at the second host device, and the network adapter device is further configured to report the response to the transmitting application.
3. An apparatus, comprising:
an integrated circuit configured to execute a management module, wherein the management module is configured to manage a transport service, wherein the transport service enables guaranteed out-of-order transmission of packets without a dedicated connection, and wherein the management module is configure to: maintain a plurality of send queues; receive a message at a send queue from the plurality of send queues, wherein the message is received from a transmitting application executing on a host device on a network, and wherein the message includes destination information; determine a transport context, wherein the transport context associates the transmitting application with a receiving application executing on a second host device on the network, and wherein the transport context is determined using the destination information and an identity of the send queue; and determine, using the transport context, to use the transport service to transmit the message, wherein using the transport service includes: generating a plurality of packets for the message; adding the plurality of packets to a packet flow associated with the transport context, wherein each packet in the packet flow is assigned a sequence number; transmitting the plurality of packets over the network; and monitoring a status for each packet from the plurality of packets,
wherein monitoring includes determining, using the sequence numbers, whether each packet from the plurality of packets was received at the second host device.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein using the transport service further includes:
receiving a response over the network, wherein the response indicates that one or more packets from the plurality of packets were received at the second host device.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein using the transport service further includes: receiving a response over the network, wherein the response indicates that one or more packets from the plurality of packets were not received at the second host device; and retransmitting the one or more packets indicated as not received.
6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein using the transport service further includes: receiving a response over the network, wherein the response includes a request to retransmit one or more packets from the plurality of packets; and reporting the response to the transmitting application.
7. The apparatus of any of claims 3-6, wherein the transport context enables the plurality of packets to use multiple paths over the network between the host device and the second host device.
8. The apparatus of any of claims 3-7, wherein using the transport service further includes:
dividing the packets in the packet flow into sub-flows of packets.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein using the transport service further includes:
transmitting each sub-flow of packets over a different network path.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein using the transport service further includes:
receiving a response indicating that one or more packets from a sub-flow of packets was received at the second host device.
11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein using the transport service further includes, for each sub-flow of packets: upon transmitting a packet from the sub-flow of packets, initiating a timer, wherein the timer is re-initiated when a response is received, the response indicating that another packet from the sub-flow of packets was received at the second host device; and upon expiration of the timer, retransmitting one or more packets from the sub-flow of packets.
12. The apparatus of any of claims 3-11, wherein the apparatus is a network adapter device.
13. The apparatus of any of claims 3-12, wherein the apparatus is a system-on-chip (SoC), a field-programmable gate array (FPGA), or an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).
14. A method, comprising: receiving, by a network adapter device, a message at a send queue from a plurality of send queues maintained by the network adapter device, wherein the message is received from a transmitting application executing on a host device on a network, and wherein the message includes destination information; determining a transport context, wherein the transport context associates the transmitting application with a receiving application on a second host device on the network, and wherein the transport context is determined using the destination information and an identity of the send queue; generating a plurality of packets for the message; adding the plurality of packets to a packet flow associated with the transport context, wherein each packet in the packet flow is assigned a sequence number; transmitting the plurality of packets over the network; and monitoring a status for each packet from the plurality of packets, wherein monitoring includes determining, using the sequence numbers, whether each packet from the plurality of packets was received at the second host device.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein using the transport service further includes: upon transmitting a packet from the plurality of packets, initiating a timer, wherein the timer is re-initiated when a response is received, the response indicating that another packet from the plurality of packets was received at the second host device; and upon expiration of the timer, retransmitting one or more packets from the plurality of packets.
</claims>
</document>
