<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T19/00,H04N21/218
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TMRW FOUNDATION IP & HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
YERLI, CEVAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71108525
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
LOCATION-BASED APPLICATION ACTIVATION
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method enabling location-based activation of applications. A server system stores and provides a persistent virtual world system comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates, the server system being configured to compute the state of the virtual-world entities and to process the applications. Upon detecting the user devices in a corresponding zone (e.g., by the wireless network detecting user devices connecting to the server), the server system sends a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the user devices. Upon user interaction with the application graphical representation, the user devices download a minimum amount of application data, prompting the server system to determine suitable application media streams. The server system performs heavy-load computational tasks on the media streams and delivers the streams to the user devices, which perform lightweight computational tasks on the media content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system enabling location-based activation of applications, comprising:
one or more servers comprising a memory and a processor, the one or more servers storing and providing a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of a real-world space, the virtual version comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates, and the one or more servers being configured at least to: compute the state of the virtual-world entities; responsive to detecting a user device entering a trigger zone associated with the one or more applications, send a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the user device via a wireless network; responsive to detecting user interaction with the application graphical representation, signal the user device to download a minimum amount of application data and provide the minimum amount of application data to the user device; responsive to detecting the minimum amount of application data has been downloaded, determine two or more media streams, wherein determining the two or more media streams signals the one or more servers to perform heavy-load computational tasks on respective application media content to be delivered to the user device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the two or more media streams is based on user viewing position, orientation, or viewing angle, or a combination thereof.
3. The system of claim 1 or 2 further comprising the user device connected to the one or more servers via a wireless network and configured to receive and execute the one or more applications, wherein receiving the application media content signals the user device to perform lightweight computational tasks on the media content in order to execute the one or more applications on the user device.
4. The system of any one of the previous claims, wherein providing the minimum amount of application data comprises pre-processing, by the one or more servers, of the application media content, the pre-processing comprising at least sound and video compression operations.
5. The system of any of the previous claims, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks on the application media content comprise physics simulations, lighting, shadows simulations, or rendering, or combinations thereof.
6. The system of any one of the previous claims, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are virtual replicas of real-world objects, the virtual replicas comprising data and models that provide self-computing capabilities and autonomous behavior, in particular the virtual replicas represent elements connected to the persistent virtual world system and unconnected elements, the connected elements comprising computing devices; or
wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are fully virtual objects not existing in the real world.
7. The system of any one of the previous claims, wherein the system is configured for user interactions with the one or more applications in in augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, or combinations thereof.
8. The system of any one of the previous claims, wherein the two or more media streams are further selected based on profile information of a user stored in the memory or obtained through social media networks.
9. A computer-implemented method for enabling location-based activation of applications performed by a server system comprising one or more server computers, the computer-implemented method comprising: providing, in the server system, a persistent virtual world system including a virtual version of a real-world space comprising one or more applications virtually attached to virtual-world entities positioned according to real-world coordinates; receiving a location of one or more user devices; determining whether the one or more user devices have entered an application trigger zone based at least in part on the location of the one or more user devices; providing, upon receiving an indication of the one or more user devices entering the application trigger zone, a minimum amount of application graphical representation to the one or more user devices; providing, upon interaction with the minimum amount of application graphical representation, a minimum amount of application downloadable data to the one or more user devices; determining, upon download of the minimum amount of application downloadable data, two or more media streams, in particular based on user viewing position, orientation, or viewing angle, or a combination thereof; performing, upon determining the two or more media streams, heavy-load computational tasks on media content; and sending the media content and instructions to perform lightweight computational tasks thereon to the one or more user devices.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein providing the minimum amount of application downloadable data comprises pre-processing application media content, the pre-processing comprising at least sound and video compression operations.
11. The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein the heavy-load computational tasks on the media content comprise performing one or more of physics simulations, lighting, shadows simulations, or rendering, or combinations thereof.
12. The method of any one of claims 9 to 11, wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are virtual replicas of real-world objects, the virtual replicas comprising data and models that provide self-computing capabilities and autonomous behavior, in particular the virtual replicas represent elements connected to the persistent virtual world system and unconnected elements, the connected elements comprising computing devices; or
wherein the virtual-world entities to which the applications are virtually attached are fully virtual objects not existing in the real world.
13. The method of any one of claims 9 to 12, further comprising processing user interactions in one of an augmented reality, virtual reality, mixed reality, or combinations thereof.
14. The method of any one of claims 9 to 13, wherein the two or more media streams are further selected based on profile information of a user stored in the server system or obtained through social media networks.
15. A computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer code configured to cause one or more computing devices to perform the method of any one of claims 9 to 14.
</claims>
</document>
