<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/32,G10L21/0208,G10L25/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXP SEMICONDUCTORS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Shanmugam, Gunasekaran
Somashekhara, Vinoda Kumar
Reddy, Omkar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69846015
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
AUDIO PROCESSING SYSTEM FOR SPEECH ENHANCEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
An audio processing system has multiple microphones that capture an audio signal. A noise suppression circuit analyses the audio signal to detect a type of noise present in the signal (e.g., stationary or non-stationary background noise). Based on the detected background noise type, the system operates in either a first or second mode of operation. In the first mode (stationary noise detected), one microphone is used to enhance a speech signal from the audio signal, and in the second mode (non-stationary noise detected), more than one microphone is used to enhance the speech signal. Processing more than one microphone input signal requires additional complexity and more processing power than one-microphone speech enhancement, so by classifying the background noise type and then switching between one microphone or N-microphones based speech enhancement, processing power is reduced during stationary noise conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An audio processing system connected to a plurality of microphones, comprising:
a noise suppression circuit that operates in one of a first mode of operation and a second mode of operation, wherein the noise suppression circuit includes: an analyzer that receives a primary speech signal from a primary microphone of the plurality of microphones and extracts a set of features from a non-speech region of the primary speech signal; a noise classification circuit that receives the extracted set of features from the analyzer and detects a type of noise in the non-speech region using the extracted set of features; and a mode selection circuit that selects one of the first and second modes of operation based on the detected noise type to suppress noise in the primary speech signal.
2. The audio processing system of claim 1, wherein the noise suppression circuit is further configured to select one of the first mode of operation and the second mode of operation based on a battery level of a battery associated with the audio processing system, and wherein: the first mode of operation is selected when the detected type of noise is stationary noise, the first mode of operation is further selected when the detected type of noise is different from the stationary noise and the battery level is less than the threshold level, and the second mode of operation is selected when the detected type of noise is different from the stationary noise and the battery level is greater than a threshold level.
3. The audio processing system of any preceding claim, further comprising: a memory, connected to the noise suppression circuit,
that stores a trained classification model that is trained to detect the type of noise in the non-speech region, wherein the noise suppression circuit detects the type of noise in the non-speech region using the trained classification model.
4. The audio processing system of any preceding claim, wherein the noise suppression circuit is further configured to: detect a voice activity in the primary speech signal, and identify the non-speech region of the primary speech signal based on the detection of the voice activity.
5. The audio processing system of any preceding claim, wherein the noise suppression circuit is further configured to: receive one or more secondary speech signals from one or more secondary microphones of the plurality of microphones, respectively.
6. The audio processing system of claim 5, wherein the noise suppression circuit is further configured to:
suppress the noise in the primary speech signal to generate an enhanced speech signal based on the selection of one of the first mode of operation and the second mode of operation, wherein: in the first mode of operation, the noise suppression circuit suppresses the noise in the primary speech signal and discards the one or more secondary speech signals; and i n the second mode of operation, the noise suppression circuit suppresses the noise in the primary speech signal by way of at least one secondary speech signal of the one or more secondary speech signals.
7. The audio processing system of any preceding claim, wherein the extracted set of features includes at least one of a spectral flux and a spectral centroid of the non-speech region.
8. A method of processing an audio signal, comprising: receiving, by a noise suppression circuit, a primary speech signal from a primary microphone of a plurality of microphones; extracting, by the noise suppression circuit, a set of features from a non-speech region of the primary speech signal; detecting, by the noise suppression circuit, a type of noise in the non-speech region based on the extracted set of features; and selecting, by the noise suppression circuit, based on the detected noise type, one of first and second modes of operation for suppressing noise in the primary speech signal.
9. The audio processing method of claim 8, wherein one of the first and second modes of operation is further selected based on a battery level of a battery that provides power to the noise suppression circuit, and wherein: the first mode of operation is selected when the detected noise type is stationary noise, the first mode of operation is further selected when the detected noise type is different from the stationary noise and the battery level is less than a predetermined threshold level, and the second mode of operation is selected when the detected noise type is different from the stationary noise and the battery level is greater than the predetermined threshold level.
10. The audio processing method of claim 8 or 9, further comprising: detecting, by the noise suppression circuit, a voice activity in the primary speech signal; and identifying, by the noise suppression circuit, the non-speech region of the primary speech signal based on the detection of the voice activity.
11. The audio processing method of any of claims 8 to 10, wherein the type of noise in the non-speech region is further detected based on a trained classification model stored in a memory, and wherein the trained classification model is trained to detect the type of noise in the non-speech region.
12. The audio processing method of any of claims 8 to 11, further comprising: receiving, by the noise suppression circuit, one or more secondary speech signals from one or more secondary microphones of the plurality of microphones, respectively; and suppressing, by the noise suppression circuit, the noise in the primary speech signal to generate an enhanced speech signal based on the selection of one of the first and second modes of operation, wherein: in the first mode of operation, the noise in the primary speech signal is suppressed and the one or more secondary speech signals are discarded; and in the second mode of operation, the noise in the primary speech signal is suppressed using at least one of the secondary speech signals.
13. The audio processing method of any of claims 8 to 12, wherein the set of features includes at least one of a spectral flux and a spectral centroid of the non-speech region.
</claims>
</document>
