<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
IIDA, HIROSHI
TAKAMATSU, SHINGO
MIYAHARA, Masanori
HORIGUCHI, Yuji
NAKADA, Kento
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67302215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
INFORMATION PROCESSING DEVICE, INFORMATION PROCESSING METHOD AND PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
[Problem] To provide a mechanism capable of more appropriately specifying reasons of prediction by a prediction model.[Solution] Provided is an information processing apparatus including a control unit configured to extract a characteristic amount set from characteristic amounts included in a plurality of pieces of input data input to a prediction model configured by a non-linear model, in which an absolute value of a degree of contribution of the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or greater than a first threshold, and an absolute value of a degree of contribution of a characteristic amount set obtained by excluding arbitrary one of the characteristic amounts from the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or less than a second threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus comprising: a control unit configured to extract a characteristic amount set from characteristic amounts included in a plurality of pieces of input data input to a prediction model configured by a non-linear model,
wherein an absolute value of a degree of contribution of the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or greater than a first threshold, and an absolute value of a degree of contribution of a characteristic amount set obtained by excluding arbitrary one of the characteristic amounts from the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or less than a second threshold.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit calculates an average of change values from the prediction result obtained by inputting the input data to the prediction model to the prediction result obtained by excluding a characteristic amount set for which a degree of contribution is to be calculated, from the input data, as a degree of contribution of the characteristic amount set.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the control unit calculates a partial differential value of an error function in the input data regarding the characteristic amount set for which the degree of contribution is to be calculated, as the change values.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the control unit calculates an average of the change values in a plurality of the prediction models as the degree of contribution of the characteristic amount set.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the control unit extracts the characteristic amount set on a basis of dispersion of the change values.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the control unit extracts the characteristic amount set by collecting characteristic amounts for which an absolute value of an average of the change values is equal to or greater than a third threshold, and dispersion of the change values is equal to or greater than a fourth threshold.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the control unit extracts the characteristic amount set by collecting characteristic amounts on a basis of a frequency of the characteristic amounts commonly appearing in the input data.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit generates output information including information indicating the extracted characteristic amount set.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the output information includes information indicating a degree of contribution of the extracted characteristic amount set.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the output information includes information indicating combination of characteristic amounts included in the extracted characteristic amount set among the characteristic amounts included in the input data.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein the output information includes a deficit portion included in the input data and information indicating change of a prediction result in a case where the deficit portion is filled with a specific characteristic amount.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the specific characteristic amount is a characteristic amount which can fill the deficit portion, and which is included in a characteristic amount set for which an absolute value of a degree of contribution is the greatest among characteristic amount sets which can be included in the input data.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the control unit clusters a plurality of pieces of the input data on a basis of a contribution degree vector for each piece of the input data, in which degrees of contribution of one or more characteristic amounts included in the input data are connected, and extracts a characteristic amount set which characterizes a cluster obtained as a result of clustering as a representative characteristic amount set of the cluster.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the control unit generates output information including information in which the cluster is associated with information regarding the representative characteristic amount set of the cluster or prediction accuracy of the prediction model for the cluster.
16. An information processing method comprising: extracting by a processor, a characteristic amount set from characteristic amounts included in a plurality of pieces of input data input to a prediction model configured by a non-linear model, wherein an absolute value of a degree of contribution of the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or greater than a first threshold, and an absolute value of a degree of contribution of a characteristic amount set obtained by excluding arbitrary one of the characteristic amounts from the extracted characteristic amount set, to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or less than a second threshold.
17. The information processing method according to claim 16, wherein the first threshold is greater than the second threshold.
18. The information processing method according to claim 16, further comprising: calculating an average of change values from the prediction result obtained by inputting the input data to the prediction model to the prediction result obtained by excluding a characteristic amount set for which a degree of contribution is to be calculated, from the input data, as a degree of contribution of the characteristic amount set.
19. The information processing method according to claim 18, wherein the extracting includes extracting the characteristic amount set on a basis of dispersion of the change values.
20. A program for causing a computer to function as: a control unit configured to extract a characteristic amount set from characteristic amounts included in a plurality of pieces of input data input to a prediction model configured by a non-linear model, wherein an absolute value of a degree of contribution of the extracted characteristic amount set to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or greater than a first threshold, and an absolute value of a degree of contribution of a characteristic amount set obtained by excluding arbitrary one of the characteristic amounts from the extracted characteristic amount set, to a prediction result by the prediction model is equal to or less than a second threshold.
</claims>
</document>
