<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F21/55,G06F21/56,G06K9/62,G06N3/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CROWDSTRIKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NISBET, BRODY
LEE, JOHN
NGUYEN, CORY-KHOI QUANG
Bradley, Jaron Michael
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69779811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTER-SECURITY VIOLATION DETECTION USING COORDINATE VECTORS
</title>

<abstract>
Event vectors can be determined for respective events based on respective command-line records and a trained representation mapping. Respective coordinate vectors can be determined, each having fewer elements than the respective event vector. Respective representations of at least some of the events can be presented via an electronic display at the respective coordinate vectors. A selection of a first representation can be received via a user interface. The events can be clustered based on the event vectors. A first cluster can be selected based on the selection. An indication of a tag can be received via the user interface. Each event of the first cluster can be associated with the tag. Some examples include transmitting a security command to cause a monitored computing device associated with an event in the first cluster to perform a mitigation action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, via a communications interface, a plurality of command-line records associated with respective events of a plurality of events, wherein:
each of the command-line records is associated with a corresponding monitored computing device of a plurality of monitored computing devices; determining a plurality of event vectors based at least in part on a trained representation mapping and on respective command-line records of the plurality of command-line records, each event vector having a first number of elements; determining, for each of the plurality of event vectors, a respective coordinate vector having a second number of elements smaller than the first number of elements; presenting, via an electronic display, respective representations of at least some events of the plurality of events at the respective coordinate vectors; receiving, via a user interface (UI), a selection of a first representation of the respective representations, the first representation associated with a first event; clustering the events of the plurality of events based at least in part on the plurality of event vectors to assign each event to a cluster of a plurality of clusters; determining a first cluster of the plurality of clusters based at least in part on the selection, wherein the first cluster includes the first event; receiving, via the UI, an indication of a tag; and associating each event of the first cluster of events with the tag.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising sending, via the communications interface, an indication of a second event in the first cluster of events, the second event being different from the first event.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising, in response to the tag indicating that the first cluster of events is associated with a security violation, transmitting a security command to a monitored computing device associated with at least one event of the first cluster of events to cause the monitored computing device to perform a mitigation action.
4. The method according to any preceding claim, wherein at least some of the events are associated with respective classifications, the presenting comprising presenting the respective representations of the at least some of the events having respective non-positional attributes indicating the respective classifications.
5. The method according to any preceding claim, further comprising clustering the events at least partly by: determining a respective reduced event vector for each of the respective event vectors, wherein each reduced event vector has a third number of elements smaller than the first number of elements; and clustering the reduced event vectors to assign each reduced event vector, and its respective event, to a corresponding cluster of the plurality of clusters.
6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: determining the reduced event vectors at least partly by determining a t-Distributed Stochastic Neighbor Embedding (t-SNE) of the event vectors in a space having a number of dimensions equal to the third number of elements; and clustering the reduced event vectors using Hierarchical Density-Based Spatial Clustering of Applications with Noise (HDBSCAN).
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein: the third number of elements is greater than the second number of elements; and the method further comprises determining the coordinate vectors based at least in part on the reduced event vectors.
8. The method according any preceding claim, wherein the first representation comprises a bounding region of the first cluster.
9. At least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions executable by at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, via a communications interface, a plurality of command-line records associated with respective events of a plurality of events, each of the events associated with a corresponding monitored computing device of a plurality of monitored computing devices, wherein: a first command-line record of the plurality of command-line records is associated with a first monitored computing device of the plurality of monitored computing devices; and a second command-line record of the plurality of command-line records is associated with a second monitored computing device of the plurality of monitored computing devices; determining a plurality of event vectors based at least in part on a trained representation mapping and on respective command-line records of the plurality of command-line records, each event vector having a first number of elements; and determining, for each of the plurality of event vectors: a respective cluster identifier; and a respective coordinate vector having a second number of elements smaller than the first number of elements.
10. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 9, the operations further comprising presenting, via an electronic display, respective representations of at least some events of the plurality of events at the respective coordinate vectors.
11. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 10, the operations further comprising, after the presenting: receiving, via a user interface (UI), a selection of a first representation of the respective representations; determining a first cluster identifier associated with the first representation; selecting a first group of events of the plurality of events, each event in the first group of events associated with the first cluster identifier; receiving, via the UI, an indication of a tag; and associating each event of the first group of events with the tag.
12. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 10 or 11, wherein: the plurality of events comprises a first cluster of events; each event in the first cluster of events corresponds to a first cluster identifier of the respective cluster identifiers; and the operations further comprise: determining that the first cluster is associated with a security violation based at least in part on a predetermined criterion over the first cluster; and highlighting, in response and via the electronic display, at least some of the representations associated with the first cluster.
13. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 12, wherein: the plurality of events comprises a first cluster of events; each event in the first cluster of events corresponds to a first cluster identifier of the respective cluster identifiers; and the operations further comprise: determining that the first cluster of events comprises at least a first group of events associated with a first classification and a second group of events associated with a second classification different from the first classification; determining that the first cluster of events satisfies a predetermined criterion over the first cluster based at least in part on at least: the number of events in the first group of events; or the number of events in the second group of events; and providing, in response, an indication of at least one of the events in the second group of events.
14. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 13, the operations further comprising determining the respective cluster identifiers at least partly by: determining a respective reduced event vector for each event vector of the plurality of event vectors, wherein each event vector has a third number of elements smaller than the first number of elements; and clustering the reduced event vectors to determine the respective cluster identifiers for each of the reduced event vectors.
15. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 14, wherein: the operations further comprise determining the coordinate vectors based at least in part on the respective reduced event vectors; and the third number of elements is larger than the second number of elements.
16. The at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium according to any one of claims 9 to 15, the operations further comprising: clustering the event vectors to determine the respective cluster identifiers; determining a respective reduced event vector for each event vector of the plurality of event vectors, wherein each reduced event vector has a third number of elements smaller than the first number of elements; and determining the respective coordinate vectors based at least in part on the respective reduced event vectors.
17. A computer-security system, comprising: a computer-readable memory storing a representation mapping; a communications interface configured to receive a plurality of command-line records associated with respective events of a plurality of events, each of the events associated with a corresponding monitored computing device of a plurality of monitored computing devices, wherein: a first command-line record of the plurality of command-line records is associated with a first monitored computing device of the plurality of monitored computing devices; and a second command-line record of the plurality of command-line records is associated with a second monitored computing device of the plurality of monitored computing devices; a representation subsystem configured to determine a plurality of event vectors using the representation mapping and based at least in part on respective command-line records of the plurality of command-line records, each event vector having a first number of elements; and a clustering subsystem configured to determine, for each of the plurality of event vectors: a respective cluster identifier; and a respective coordinate vector having a second number of elements smaller than the first number of elements.
18. The computer-security system according to claim 17, further comprising: an electronic display; a user input device; and a user-interface subsystem configured to: present, via an electronic display, respective representations of at least some events of the plurality of events at the respective coordinate vectors; and receive, via a user interface (UI), a selection of a first representation of the respective representations.
19. The computer-security system according to claim 18, wherein: the system further comprises a security subsystem configured to: determine a first cluster identifier associated with the first representation; select a first group of events of the plurality of events, each event in the first group of events associated with the first cluster identifier; the user-interface subsystem is further configured to receive, via the UI, an indication of a tag; and the system is further configured to associate each event of the first group of events with the tag.
20. The computer-security system according to any one of claims 17 to 19, the clustering subsystem configured to determine the respective cluster identifiers at least partly by: determining a respective reduced event vector for each event vector of the plurality of event vectors, wherein each event vector has a third number of elements smaller than the first number of elements; and clustering the reduced event vectors to determine the respective cluster identifiers for each of the reduced event vectors.
</claims>
</document>
