<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F3/16,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRISUWANANUKORN, CHARLES
GRUBER, THOMAS R.
KIM, YOON
CARSON, DAVID A.
BINDER, JUSTIN G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64274809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FAR-FIELD EXTENSION FOR DIGITAL ASSISTANT SERVICES
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and processes for operating an intelligent automated assistant to provide extension of digital assistant services are provided. An example method includes, at an electronic device having one or more processors, receiving, from a first user, a first speech input representing a user request. The method further includes obtaining an identity of the first user; and in accordance with the user identity, providing a representation of the user request to at least one of a second electronic device or a third electronic device. The method further includes receiving, based on a determination of whether the second electronic device or the third electronic device, or both, is to provide the response to the first electronic device, the response to the user request from the second electronic device or the third electronic device. The method further includes providing a representation of the response to the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing a digital assistant service, comprising: at a first electronic device with one or more processors and memory, the first electronic device being configured to extend speech-based digital assistant services to a plurality of users based on identities of the plurality of users, wherein the speech-based digital assistant services are provided by one or more electronic devices different from the first electronic device: receiving a notification of an event associated with a first user; in response to receiving the notification, outputting an indication of the notification; receiving one or more speech inputs; in accordance with the one or more speech inputs, obtaining an identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs; determining, based on the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs and based on the notification, whether the notification is to be provided to the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs; and in accordance with a determination that the notification is to be provided to the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs, determining whether the notification is to be provided at the first electronic device or another electronic device; and in accordance with a determination that the notification is to be provided at the first electronic device, providing the notification at the first electronic device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification of the event includes a representation of at least one of an incoming call, a reminder, a message, a voicemail, or a news alert.
3. The method of any of claims 1 and 2, wherein receiving the notification of the event comprises:
receiving the notification from at least one of a second electronic device or a third electronic device.
4. The method of any of claims 1-3, wherein outputting an indication of the notification comprises:
outputting the indication of the notification by the first electronic device or one of the additional electronic devices communicatively coupled to the first electronic device.
5. The method of any of claims 1-4, wherein receiving the one or more speech inputs comprises: receiving a first speech input regarding the notification; outputting a response in accordance with the notification of the event; and receiving a second speech input.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5,
wherein obtaining the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs comprises: obtaining authentication data associated with the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs; and obtaining a determination of the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs based on the authentication data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein obtaining the determination of the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs comprises: providing the authentication data to at least one of a second electronic device and a third electronic device; and receiving the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs from at least one of the second electronic device and the third electronic device, wherein the identity of the user who provides at least one of the one or more speech inputs is determined based on the authentication data.
8. The method of any of claims 1-7, wherein providing the notification at the first electronic device comprises:
providing an audio output associated with the notification at the first electronic device.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, further comprising:
in accordance with a determination that the notification is not to be provided at the first electronic device, determining an additional electronic device for providing the notification.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the additional electronic device for providing the notification is based on the one or more speech inputs.
11. The method of any of claims 9 and 10, wherein determining the additional electronic device for providing the notification is based on context information.
12. The method of any of claims 1-11, further comprising, prior to receiving the notification, establishing a connection between the first electronic device and at least one of a second electronic device or a third electronic device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein establishing the connection is based on a near-field communication between the first electronic device and the third electronic device.
14. The method of any of claims 12 and 13, wherein establishing the connection is based on detecting of the third electronic device being within a predetermined distance from the first electronic device.
15. The method of any of claims 12-14, wherein establishing the connection is based on a previous established connection between the first electronic device and the third electronic device.
16. The method of any of claims 12-15, further comprising: establishing a connection between the first electronic device and the third electronic device, wherein the third electronic device is associated with the first user; and establishing a connection between the first electronic device and a fourth electronic device, wherein the fourth electronic device is associated with a second user.
17. The method of any of claims 12-16, further comprising: after establishing a connection between the first electronic device and the third electronic device, notifying the second electronic device of the established connection.
18. The method of any of claims 1-17, further comprising, establishing one or more connections between the first electronic device and one or more additional electronic devices, wherein the one or more additional electronic devices are the same type of devices as the first electronic device.
19. A first electronic device comprising: one or more processors; memory; and one or more programs stored in memory, the one or more programs including instructions for performing the method of any one of claims 1-18.
20. A computer-readable storage medium comprising one or more programs for execution by one or more processors of a first electronic device, the one or more programs including instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the first electronic device to perform the method of any one of claims 1-18.
</claims>
</document>
