<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENCENT TECHNOLOGY (SHENZHEN) COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, Hao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62670502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR VIEWING HISTORICALLY USED FILE, AND TERMINAL
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are a method and apparatus for viewing a historically used file, and a terminal, belonging to the field of file management. The method comprises: displaying a first user interface of a parent application program, wherein an ingress of at least one child application program is displayed on the first user interface; receiving a start signal triggered at the ingress of a target child application program; sending an information acquisition request to a server corresponding to the target child application program; receiving file information of n historically used files sent by the server; and displaying a second user interface of the target child application program, wherein the file information of the n historically used files is displayed on the second user interface. The present application achieves the effect that the function of quickly accessing a historically used file can be used on any terminal supporting a parent application program, and the terminal can use a Windows operating system or a non-Windows operating system, such as an IOS operating system or an Android operating system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for viewing a previously used file, applied to a second terminal, the method comprising: displaying a first user interface of a parent application, an entry to at least one sub-application being displayed on the first user interface, and the sub-application running by relying on the parent application; receiving a start signal triggered at an entry to a target sub-application, the target sub-application being one of the at least one sub-application; transmitting an information obtaining request to a server corresponding to the target sub-application; receiving file information of n previously used files from the server; and displaying a second user interface of the target sub-application, the file information of the n previously used files being displayed on the second user interface, wherein the n previously used files are previously used by another terminal and uploaded by the another terminal to the server, and n is a positive integer.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the transmitting the information obtaining request to the server corresponding to the target sub-application comprises: transmitting, via the target sub-application, the information obtaining request to the server corresponding to the target sub-application, the information obtaining request carrying a first user account that is logged into the parent application; and wherein the receiving the file information of the n previously used files from the server comprises:
receiving file names of the n previously used files from the server, the file names being obtained by the server through a query according to a second user account associated with the first user account, and the second user account corresponding to the another terminal.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: before the displaying the first user interface of the parent application, displaying a code scanning interface of the parent application; and in a case that a preset type of graphic code displayed on the another terminal is successfully scanned on the code scanning interface, transmitting an account binding request to the server.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the transmitting the account binding request to the server comprises: acquiring a second user account from the graphic code, the second user account corresponding to the another terminal; obtaining the first user account that is logged into the parent application; and transmitting the account binding request to the server, the account binding request carrying the first user account and the second user account.
5. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, further comprising: after the displaying the second user interface of the target sub-application, receiving a viewing signal of a target previously used file in the n previously used files; downloading the target previously used file; and displaying file content of the target previously used file.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the downloading the target previously used file comprises: transmitting a file download request to the server corresponding to the target sub-application, the file download request carrying a file identifier of the target previously used file; receiving a storage address corresponding to the target previously used file in a file storage system from the server; and downloading the target previously used file from the file storage system based on the storage address.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 4, wherein
the parent application is an instant messaging application, and
the target sub-application is a recently used document application.
8. An apparatus for viewing a previously used file, implemented in a second terminal, the apparatus comprising: a display module, configured to display a first user interface of a parent application, an entry to at least one sub-application being displayed on the first user interface, and the sub-application running by relying on the parent application; an interaction module, configured to receive a start signal triggered at an entry to a target sub-application, the target sub-application being one of the at least one sub-application; a transmitting module, configured to transmit an information obtaining request to a server corresponding to the target sub-application; and a receiving module, configured to receive file information of n previously used files from the server; wherein the display module is further configured to display a second user interface of the target sub-application, the file information of the n previously used files being displayed on the second user interface; and wherein the n previously used files being previously used by another terminal and uploaded by the another terminal to the server, and n is a positive integer.
9. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein
the transmitting module is configured to transmit, via the target sub-application, the information obtaining request to the server corresponding to the target sub-application, the information obtaining request carrying a first user account that is logged into the parent application; and
the receiving module is configured to receive file names of the n previously used files from the server, the file names being obtained by the server through a query according to a second user account associated with the first user account, and the second user account corresponding to the another terminal.
10. The apparatus according to claim 8, wherein
the display module is further configured to display a code scanning interface of the parent application; and
the transmitting module is further configured to: in a case that a preset type of graphic code displayed on the another terminal is successfully scanned on the code scanning interface, transmit an account binding request to the server.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the transmitting module is configured to: acquire a second user account from the graphic code, the second user account corresponding to the another terminal; obtain the first user account that is logged into the parent application; and transmit the account binding request to the server, the account binding request carrying the first user account and the second user account.
12. The apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein
the receiving module is configured to: receive a viewing signal of a target previously used file in the n previously used files; and download the target previously used file; and
the display module is configured to display file content of the target previously used file.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein
the transmitting module is configured to transmit a file download request to the server corresponding to the target sub-application, the file download request carrying a file identifier of the target previously used file; and
the receiving module is configured to: receive a storage address corresponding to the target previously used file in a file storage system from the server; and download the target previously used file from the file storage system based on the storage address.
14. The apparatus according to any one of claims 8 to 11, wherein
the parent application is an instant messaging application, and
the target sub-application is a recently used document application.
15. A terminal, comprising: a processor; and a memory, storing at least one instruction, at least one program, a code set, or an instruction set, which, when loaded and executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform the method for viewing a previously used file according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
16. A computer readable storage medium having stored therein at least one instruction, at least one program, a code set, or an instruction set which, when loaded and executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform the method for viewing a previously used file according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
</claims>
</document>
