<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/02,G01B11/08,G06K9/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RICHEMONT INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
Mathilde, Grosgogeat
Léo, Daguet
Bruno, Herrera
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67211595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CLOSED LOOP OBJECT FITTING TO USER MEMBER
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention provides a computer implemented method with a training phase to train a learning machine, and comprises a predicting phase for predicting a predicted fitting opening dimension of a closed loop object to be worn by a user. The training phase comprises the step of supplying to the learning machine pictures of individuals and opening dimensions of a closed loop object worn by the individuals. The predicting phase comprises the step a supplying a picture of a member of a user, and is followed by a step of manufacturing or adjusting or selecting a closed loop object having an opening sized according to the predicted fitting opening dimension.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Computer implemented training method for manufacturing, or for determining the size of, a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) to be worn by a user around a user's member,
wherein the said member comprises: - at least one wearing portion (WP1, WP2) where the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) is intended to be worn, - a member extremity, - at least one joint (J1, J2), arranged between the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) and the member extremity, wherein the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) comprises at least one opening for passing over the joint (J1, J2),
wherein the training method comprises: • a training phase, with the steps of: - taking pictures of said member of a plurality of individuals, said pictures showing at least the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) and the joint (J1, J2) of each individual, - measuring at least one opening dimension of the opening of a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) worn by each individual, - supply to a learning machine: the pictures, and the measured opening dimensions, so that the learning machine can: - measure a size of the joint (J1, J2) and a size of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) of each individual, - associate the opening dimension to at least one of a size of the joint (J1, J2) and or a size of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2).
2. Computer implemented training method according to claim 1, wherein the training phase comprises: - recording, for each individual, at least one information related to the fitting of the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) to the individual's wearing portion (WP1, WP2),
so that the learning machine can associate the fitting information to the opening dimension and to the size of the joint (J1, J2) and to the size of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2).
3. Computer implemented training method according to claim 2, wherein the fitting information is received from the individual and is chosen from a list comprising at least one of the following criteria: - the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) fits adequately the wearing portion (WP1, WP2), - the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) fits too loosely the wearing portion (WP1, WP2), - the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) fits too tightly the wearing portion (WP1, WP2), - the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) does not pass over the joint (J1, J2), - the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) is not retained by the joint (J1, J2).
4. Computer implemented training method according to anyone of claims 1 to 3, wherein the step of measuring at least one opening dimension of the opening of a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) worn by each individual comprises the steps of: - taking at least one picture of the opening of the closed loop object (CL1, CL2), - supplying the picture to the learning machine so that the learning machine can measure the opening dimension.
5. Computer implemented training method according to anyone of claims 1 to 4, wherein each step of taking a picture includes a step of positioning an object or a pattern with a predetermined dimension in the field of imaging.
6. Computer implemented training method according to anyone of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the closed loop object (CL1, CL2) is a ring,
wherein the member is a finger and preferably the ring finger,
wherein the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) is a phalanx, preferably the proximal phalanx,
and wherein the joint (J1, J2) is the joint between two phalanges, and preferably the joint between the proximal phalanx and the intermediate phalanx.
7. Computer implemented training method according to anyone of claims 1 to 6, wherein the learning machine associates the opening dimension to at least one of: - the width (WP1D, WP2D) of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2), - the width (J1D, J2D) of the joint (J1, J2), - the ratio between the width of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) and the width of the joint (J1, J2), - the shape of the member.
8. Computer implemented training method according to anyone of claims 1 to 7, wherein the step of taking a picture of the member comprises a step of retro illuminating the member, so as to picture an outside contour of the member, and: - a contour or shape of bones of said member, and/or - a thickness of skin of said member, and/or - a contour or shape of flesh of said member.
9. Computer implemented training method according to claim 8, wherein the learning machine associates the opening dimension to at least one of: - a bone width, - a skin thickness, - a flesh width.
10. Computer implemented predicting method for manufacturing, or for determining the size of, a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) to be worn by a user around a user's member,
wherein the method comprises: • a predicting phase, with the steps of: - taking at least one picture of a member of a user, said at least one picture showing at least the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) and the joint (J1, J2) of the user, - supply the picture to a learning machine trained according to the computer implemented training method of anyone of claims 1 to 9, so that the learning machine can: - measure a size of the joint (J1, J2) and a size of the wearing portion (WP1, WP2) of the user, - predict a fitting opening dimension of a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) chosen by the user.
11. Computer implemented method for manufacturing, or for adjusting the size of, a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) to be worn by a user around a user's member,
wherein the method comprises: - manufacturing, or adjusting the size of, a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) according to the fitting opening dimension predicted according to the computer implemented method predicting method of claim 10, or - choosing within a set of pre manufactured closed loop objects a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) according to the predicted fitting opening dimension predicted according to the predicting method of claim 10.
12. Computer implemented method for manufacturing, or for adjusting the size of, a closed loop object (CL1, CL2) according to claim 11, wherein the step of taking a picture of the user's member during the predicting phase of claim 10 is performed by the user, and the picture is sent by the user to a remote server,
and wherein the manufactured or adjusted or chosen closed loop object (CL1, CL2) is shipped to the user.
</claims>
</document>
