<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THOMSON LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
VIGOUROUX, Jean-Ronan
GILBERTON, Philippe
QUANG-KHANH-NGOC, Duong
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67437931
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR DETECTING ANOMALIES, CORRESPONDING COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCT AND NON-TRANSITORY COMPUTER-READABLE CARRIER MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting anomalies, the method being performed by a machine learning system (130) configured for learning at least one model (132) from a set of training data, the method including receiving sensor data from a plurality of N sensors (100), computing an anomaly prediction based on the sensor data and the at least one model, and if the anomaly prediction is an anomaly detection, sending an anomaly event (11) containing said anomaly prediction. The method further includes receiving a user feedback (12) relating to said anomaly event or to an absence of anomaly event, and adapting the at least one model based on the user feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting anomalies, the method being performed by a machine learning system (130, 130') configured for learning at least one model (132, 132') from a set of training data, the method comprising: - receiving (21) sensor data from a plurality of N sensors (100); - computing (22) an anomaly prediction based on the sensor data and the at least one model; and - if the anomaly prediction is an anomaly detection, sending an anomaly event (11) containing said anomaly prediction; characterized in that said method further comprises: - receiving (25) a user feedback (12) relating to said anomaly event or to an absence of anomaly event; and - adapting (27) the at least one model based on the user feedback.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning system (130) comprises: - at least two mono-modal anomaly models (132), each associated with a different one of said plurality of N sensors, and each configured for computing a mono-modal anomaly prediction based on the sensor data from the associated sensor; and - a decision maker (133), configured for computing said anomaly prediction by applying at least one decision rule to said mono-modal anomaly predictions; and wherein adapting (27) the at least one model based on the user feedback comprises at least one of: - adapting at least one of said mono-modal anomaly models; and - adapting said at least one decision rule.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein, in said at least one decision rule, each mono-modal anomaly prediction is weighted by an associated weight factor, and wherein adapting (27) said at least one decision rule comprises at least one of: - adapting at least one of said weight factors; and - adapting a threshold to which is compared a combination of the mono-modal anomaly predictions when weighted by their respective weighting factors.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein said adapting (27) of at least one of said weight factors comprises: - if the user feedback indicates that the anomaly prediction contained in the anomaly event is correct, increasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction leading to the correct anomaly prediction and decreasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction not leading to the correct anomaly prediction.
5. The method according to any one of claims 3 to 4, wherein said adapting (27) of at least one of said weight factors comprises: - if the user feedback indicates that the anomaly prediction contained in the anomaly event is incorrect, increasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction not leading to the incorrect anomaly prediction and decreasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction leading to the incorrect anomaly prediction.
6. The method according to any one of claims 3 to 5, wherein said adapting (27) of at least one of said weight factors comprises: - if the user feedback indicates an absence of anomaly event, corresponding to an incorrect anomaly prediction, increasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction not leading to the incorrect anomaly prediction and decreasing the weight factor of each mono-modal anomaly prediction leading to the incorrect anomaly prediction.
7. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 6, wherein, when a new sensor is added to said plurality of N sensors, said method further comprises: - adding (31) a new mono-modal anomaly model for analyzing sensor data from said new sensor; and - initializing (32) as 1 the weight factor of said new mono-modal anomaly model while adjusting (32) as αi = αi∗N/(N+1) the weight factors for other existing mono-modal anomaly models, with αi the weight factor of the ith sensor.
8. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 7, wherein, when a given sensor of said plurality of N sensors is detected defective or associated with a mono-modal anomaly model detected unreliable, said method further comprises: - removing (41) from the plurality of N mono-modal anomaly models the mono-modal anomaly model associated with said given sensor; and - adjusting (42) the weight factors of the remaining N-1 mono-modal anomaly models as αi = αi∗N/(N-1), with αi the weight factor of the ith sensor.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning system (130') comprises a single multi-modal anomaly model (132'), configured for: - computing a multi-modal anomaly prediction, based on the sensor data from the plurality of sensors; and - computing said anomaly prediction based on a comparison between said multi-modal anomaly prediction and a threshold; and wherein adapting (27) the at least one model based on the user feedback comprises adapting said single multi-modal anomaly model.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein adapting said single multi-modal anomaly model comprises adapting said threshold.
11. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein adapting (27) the at least one model based on the user feedback is not performed if a false detection rate is under a determined level (26).
12. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein said method further comprises: - generating (28) a supplemental set of training data based on the user feedback and the sensor data from the plurality of N sensors; and - re-training (29) said at least one model with the supplemental set of training data.
13. A computer program product (630) comprising program code instructions for implementing the method according to any one of the claims 1 to 12, when said program is executed on a computer or a processor (61).
14. Non-transitory computer-readable carrier medium (63) storing a computer program product (630) according to claim 13.
15. A device for detecting anomalies (1, 1'), said device comprising a reprogrammable or dedicated computation machine (61, 62, 63) configured for implementing a machine learning system (130) itself configured for: - learning at least one model from a set of training data; - receiving sensor data from a plurality of N sensors; - computing an anomaly prediction based on the sensor data and the at least one model; and - if the anomaly prediction is an anomaly detection, sending an anomaly event containing said anomaly prediction; characterized in that said machine learning system (130) is further configured for: - receiving a user feedback relating to said anomaly event or to an absence of anomaly event; and - adapting the at least one model based on the user feedback.
</claims>
</document>
