<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/12,G06T7/60,H04N21/431,H04N21/435,H04N21/44,H04N21/4545
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WANGSU SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<docdb_family_id>
67437365
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD FOR FITTING TARGET OBJECT IN VIDEO FRAME, SYSTEM, AND DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
Part of the present application provides a method, system and device for fitting a target object in a video frame. The method comprises: identifying a region where the target object is located in the video frame; selecting one or more geometric figures to fit the region where the target object is located, such that a combination of the one or more geometric figures covers the region where the target object is located; and generating a fitting parameter for each of the geometric figures according to a type of the geometric figure and a layout parameter of the geometric figure in the video frame, and taking a combination of the fitting parameters of respective geometric figures as a fitting parameter of the video frame. With the embodiments of the present application, the data amount after fitting is reduced, thereby improving efficiency of subsequent processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for fitting a target object in a video frame, comprising: identifying a region where the target object is located in the video frame; selecting one or more geometric figures to fit the region where the target object is located, such that a combination of the one or more geometric figures covers the region where the target object is located; and generating a fitting parameter for each of the geometric figures according to a type of the geometric figure and a layout parameter of the geometric figure in the video frame, and taking a combination of the fitting parameters of each of the geometric figures as a fitting parameter of the video frame.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: after identifying the region where the target object is located in the video frame,
generating a binary mask image of the video frame, wherein, pixels constituting the region where the target object is located have a first pixel value in the binary mask image, and other pixels in the binary mask image have a second pixel value, wherein, the first pixel value is different from the second pixel value.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein, selecting one or more geometric figures to fit the region where the target object is located comprises:
fitting the region constituted of pixels having the first pixel value in the binary mask image by the one or more geometric figures.
4. The method according to claim 1 or 2, wherein, selecting one or more geometric figures to fit the region where the target object is located comprises: dividing the region where the target object is located into one or more sub-regions according to a body feature of the target object; and selecting, for any one of the sub-regions, a geometric figure matching with the sub-region, and determining a layout parameter of the geometric figure, so that the geometric figure drawn according to the layout parameter covers the sub-region.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein, the layout parameter of the geometric figure in the video frame is represented by coordinate values of the pixels and/or the number of the pixels.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein, generating a fitting parameter for each of the geometric figures comprises:
identifying a preset graphic identifier corresponding to the type of the geometric figure, encoding the preset graphic identifier and the layout parameter of the geometric figure respectively, and taking the encoded data as the fitting parameter of the geometric figure.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein, generating a fitting parameter for each of the geometric figures comprises: acquiring a set of training samples of the target object in advance, wherein, the set of training samples comprises one or more image samples, each of the image samples comprises the target object, and each of the image samples is provided with a labeled tag, wherein, the labeled tag is configured to indicate fitting parameters of geometric figures necessary for covering the target object in the image sample; training an identification model using the image samples in the set of training samples, so that after any one of the image samples is input into the trained identification model, the prediction result output by the trained identification model is in consistent with the fitting parameters indicated by the labeled tag of input image sample; and inputting the video frame into the trained identification model, and taking the prediction result output by the trained identification model as the fitting parameter of the video frame.
8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising:
adding an auxiliary identification bit for the fitting parameter of the video frame, and generating mask information of the video frame based on a combination of the auxiliary identification bit and the fitting parameter of the video frame; wherein the auxiliary identification bit has at least one of the following functions: indicating a data size of the fit parameter of the video frame; indicating the number of the geometric figures included in the fitting parameter of the video frame; or indicating a data stop position of the fit parameter of the video frame.
9. A system for fitting a target object in a video frame, comprising: a region identifying unit configured for identifying a region where the target object is located in the video frame; a geometric figure selecting unit configured for selecting one or more geometric figures to fit the region where the target object is located, such that a combination of the one or more geometric figures covers the region where the target object is located; and a fitting parameter generating unit configured for generating a fitting parameter for each of the geometric figures according to a type of the geometric figure and a layout parameter of the geometric figure in the video frame, and taking a combination of the fitting parameters of each of the geometric figures as a fitting parameter of the video frame.
10. The system according to claim 9, wherein, the geometric figure selecting unit comprises: a sub-region dividing module configured for dividing the region where the target object is located into one or more sub-regions according to a body feature of the target object; and a layout parameter determining module configured for selecting, for any one of the sub-regions, a geometric figure matching with the sub-region, and determining a layout parameter of the geometric figure, so that the geometric figure drawn according to the layout parameter covers the sub-region.
11. The system according to claim 9, wherein, the fitting parameter generating unit comprises:
an encoding module configured for identifying a preset graphic identifier corresponding to the type of the geometric figure, encoding the preset graphic identifier and the layout parameter of the geometric figure respectively, and taking the encoded data as the fitting parameter of the geometric figure.
12. The system according to claim 9, wherein, the fitting parameter generating unit comprises: a training sample set acquiring module configured for acquiring a set of training samples of the target object in advance, wherein, the set of training samples comprises one or more image samples, each of the image samples comprises the target object, and each of the image samples is provided with a labeled tag, wherein, the labeled tag is configured to indicate fitting parameters of geometric figures necessary for covering the target object in the image sample; a training module configured for training an identification model using the image samples in the set of training samples, so that after any one of the image samples is input into the trained identification model, the prediction result output by the trained identification model is in consistent with the fitting parameters indicated by the labeled tag of input image sample; and a result predicting module configured for inputting the video frame into the trained identification model, and taking the prediction result output by the trained identification model as the fitting parameter of the video frame.
13. A device for fitting a target object in a video frame, wherein, the device comprises a processor and a memory configured for storing a computer program, which when being processed by the processor, implements the method according to any one of claims 1-8.
</claims>
</document>
