<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/6883,C12Q1/6886,G16B25/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
VAN DE STOLPE, ANJA
VAN DOORN, Arie Rombertus
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67003288
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IDENTIFICATION OF THE CELLULAR FUNCTION OF AN ACTIVE NFKB PATHWAY
</title>

<abstract>
Target genes of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway are disclosed, which are associated with a cellular function such as cell division, apoptosis or protection against oxidative stress of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway and can be used for determining a cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling in a human subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway in a cell sample, the method comprising:
determining in the cell sample containing cells with an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway the cellular function based on expression level of at least one NFkB target gene associated with the cellular function.
2. The method according to claim 1,
wherein the at least one NFkB target gene is selected from the group consisting of BCL2L1, BCL2, CCND2, SKP2, NOX1, SERPINE2, CSF2, CYP27B1, IGHG1, IGHE, BIRC3, CCL2, SOD2, GZMB, CCL5 and MMP1, and
wherein the at least one NFkB target gene is preferably selected from the group consisting of BCL2L1, BCL2, CCND2, SKP2, CYP27B1, IGHG1, IGHE, BIRC3, CCL2, SOD2 and GZMB.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2,
wherein the cellular function is selected from the group consisting of cell division, cell differentiation, cell adhesion, chemotaxis and migration, apoptosis, immune functions like antigen presentation, oxidative stress and oxidative stress protection, and
wherein the cellular function is preferably selected from the group consisting of cell division, apoptosis and oxidative stress protection.
4. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the at least one NFkB target gene is selectable based on differential expression studies comparing an expression level of the at least one cellular function-associated NFkB target gene of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway, whose respective cellular function is active, with an expression level of the at least one cellular function-associated NFkB target gene of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway, whose respective cellular function is inactive.
5. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the cellular function is determined based on evaluating a mathematical model relating the expression level of the at least one NFkB target gene to the cellular function.
6. The method according to claim 5,
wherein the expression level of the at least one NFkB target gene is an expression level normalized by and/or corrected for one or more of the following: activity of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway in the cell sample; baseline expression level of the respective NFkB target gene(s); and/or average expression levels of the respective NFkB target gene(s) in a group of samples comprising cells with an active NFkB pathway.
7. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the determining of the cellular function involves discriminating between the cellular function and at least one further cellular function based on expression levels of target genes associated with the respective cellular functions.
8. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the cell sample is derived from a tissue, cells, blood, a body fluid, a cell line, a cell culture and/or a tissue culture.
9. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the cells contained in the cell sample are selected from the group consisting of immune cells and cancer cells and/or wherein the cells are obtained from a subject having, or suspected of having, or having a predisposition of acquiring, an immune-related condition such as kidney transplantation, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, diabetes and preferably cancer.
10. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
wherein the cell sample containing cells with an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway is selected based on activity of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway in the cells contained in the cell sample,
wherein the activity of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway in the cells is inferred or inferable by a method comprising: receiving expression levels of one or more and preferably six or more target genes of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway, determining an level of an NFkB transcription factor (TF) element, the NFkB TF element controlling transcription of the one or more and preferably six or more target genes of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway, the determining being based at least in part on evaluating a mathematical model relating expression levels of the one or more and preferably six or more target genes of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway to the level of the NFkB TF element, wherein the one or more and preferably six or more target genes are selected from the group consisting of: BCL2L1, BIRC3, CCL2, CCL3, CCL4, CCL5, CCL20, CCL22, CX3CL1, CXCL1, CXCL2, CXCL3, ICAM1, IL1B, IL6, IL8, IRF1, MMP9, NFKB2, NFKBIA, NFKBIE, PTGS2, SELE, STAT5A, TNF, TNFAIP2, TNIP 1, TRAF 1 and VCAM 1; inferring the activity of the NFkB cellular signaling pathway based on the determined level of the NFkB TF element in the sample, wherein the inferring is performed by a digital processing device using the mathematical model.
11. The method according to one of the preceding claims,
further comprising one or more of the following: monitoring the at least one cellular function of the active NFkB cellular signaling pathway; monitoring an effect of a therapy, preferably an immunotherapy, on the at least one cellular function of the active NFkB pathway; identifying a mechanism of a drug targeting the NFkB cellular signaling pathway; predicting or monitoring response to a drug targeting the NFkB cellular signaling pathway; and/or predicting whether immune cells exert a tumor suppressive or a tumor promoting effect; predicting therapy response, in particular response to immunotherapy; predicting response to a combination immunotherapy as compared to monotherapy, predicting whether a therapy, in particular an immunotherapy, is effective in view of side effects and/or costs; and/or
identifying patients that are at risk of severe side-effects.
12. An apparatus for determining at least one cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway comprising at least one digital processor configured to perform the method of any of claims 1 to 11.
13. A non transitory storage medium for determining at least one cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway storing instructions that are executable by a digital processing device to perform the method of any of claims 1 to 11.
14. A computer program for determining at least one cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway comprising program code means for causing a digital processing device to perform a method of any of claims 1 to 10, when the computer program is run on the digital processing device.
15. A kit for use in a method of diagnosis of a mammal, the diagnosis being based on determining at least one cellular function of an active NFkB cellular signaling pathway in the mammal, the kit comprising: components for determining the expression levels of at least one NFkB target gene associated with a cellular function, and optionally the apparatus of claim 12, the non-transitory storage medium of claim 13, or the computer program of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
