<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N99/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KIM, IL SOO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, IL SOO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66439201
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR PROVIDING USER-CUSTOMIZED LAST AND METHOD THEREFOR
</title>

<abstract>
A system for providing a user-customized last and a method therefor are disclosed.The system for providing a user-customized last, according to an embodiment of the present invention, includes: a tilting controller for measuring data on foot pressure applied to soles according to tilting conditions in a state in which a subject stands thereon; and a server, which collects, from the tilting controller, various physical conditions of subjects and qualitative data according to foot pressure data measurements so as to generate accumulated raw data, extracts quantitative data in tilting conditions optimized according to foot shapes through machine learning using the raw data, and provides last information generated on the basis of quantitative data matched with foot-related physical information of a user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A user-customized last providing system comprising: a tilting controller that measures foot pressure data applied to a sole according to a tilting condition while a subjects stands thereupon; and a server that generates accumulated raw data by collecting qualitative data according to physical conditions of various subjects and foot pressure data measurement from the tilting controller, extracts quantitative data of an optimized tilting condition according to a foot shape through machine learning by utilizing the raw data, and provides last information generated based on quantitative data that matches foot-related physical information of the user.
2. The user-customized last providing system of claim 1, wherein the tilting controller measures the foot pressure data of which left/right tilting and front/rear tilting of a front feet portion, left/right tilting and front/rear tilting of a rear foot portion, and a rotation condition are different, while stepwise controlling a height of a heel of the rear foot portion of the foot of the subject.
3. The user-customized last providing system of claim 1, wherein the tilting controller comprises: a first mechanism portion where a first pressure sensor is disposed in a first foothold where a front feet portion of the foot of the subject is mounted; a second mechanism portion where a second pressure sensor is disposed in a second foothold where a rear foot portion of the foot of the subject is mounted; and a control module 130 that controls operation of each portion for measurement of foot pressure data of the subject.
4. The user-customized last providing system of claim 3, wherein the first mechanism portion tilts the first foothold in front/rear and left/right directions by using two motors and first support shafts formed in lower left and right portions of the first foothold.
5. The user-customized last providing system of claim 3, wherein
the second mechanism portion tilts the second foothold in front/rear and left/right directions by using two motors and second support shafts formed in lower left and right portions of the second foothold, and
the second mechanism portion comprises a height adjusting motor that adjusts a height of a heel by vertically moving the second foothold and a rotation motor that horizontally rotates the second foothold.
6. The user-customized last providing system of claim 3, wherein the control module sets a tilting condition according to a foot pressure measurement algorithm by being connected with a plurality of tilting controllers arranged in parallel with each other and then extracts the foot pressure data at time that the left foot weight and the right foot weight are balanced.
7. The user-customized last providing system of claim 6, wherein the control module measures EMG data from an EMG sensor at the time that the left foot weight and the right foot weight are balanced.
8. The user-customized last providing system of claim 1, wherein the server comprises: a data collector that collects qualitative data that includes foot pressure data, EMG data, and subject satisfaction data for each tilting condition for each subject's heel height from the tilting controller and EMG sensor; a data processor that generates quantitative data of tilting conditions in which comfort according to a foot shape is optimized by performing machine learning based on the qualitative data; a controller that generates 3D last information in consideration of various foot-related physical conditions based on the quantitative data; and a database that stores the qualitative data and the quantitative data, and stores the 3D last information optimized according to stored information.
9. The user-customized last providing system of claim 8, wherein
the data collector generates raw data that includes user information data formed of personal information and foot-related physical information of a subject and a user data table formed of the foot pressure data, EMG data, and subject's foot comfort satisfaction data.
10. The user-customized last providing system of claim 9, wherein the data collector calculates at least one of a foot pressure sum, a foot pressure average, a foot pressure standard deviation, a number of pressure sensors (cells) for which foot pressure is measured, and foot pressure ratios of the front foot portion mechanism and the rear foot portion mechanism from foot pressure data from the foot pressure data and then adds the calculated one to the raw data.
11. The user-customized last providing system of claim 8, wherein the data processor extracts at least one input parameter from a tilting condition for each heel height, a foot pressure sum, a foot pressure average, a foot pressure standard deviation, a number of pressure sensors (cells) for measuring foot pressure, a foot pressure ratio of the front foot portion mechanism and the rear foot portion mechanism, EMG similarity (similarity to flat-level EMG), foot comfort satisfaction, and a degree of foot tilt, and inputs the extracted input parameter to a machine learning engine.
12. The user-customized last providing system of claim 11, wherein a weight value is assigned for each input parameter according to importance.
13. The user-customized last providing system of claim 8, wherein the controller acquires the foot-related physical information including at least one of a foot straight line length, a ball width of the foot, a height of the top of the foot, medial and lateral longitudinal arches, and a straight line length of the ball of the foot by analyzing the flat and side image of the foot collected from a user terminal through image processing.
14. The user-customized last providing system of claim 8, wherein the controller derives tilting values of a front foot portion and a rear foot portion corresponding to a desired heel height in consideration of the foot-related physical information of the user, and the last information according to the tilting value.
15. The user-customized last providing system of claim 8, wherein the controller outputs an actual last through 3D printing using the 3D last information.
16. A method for offering user-customized last information according to a feet shape of a user by a server, comprising: a) generating raw data by accumulating qualitative data that matches subject's personal information, foot-related physical information, foot pressure data, EMG data, and satisfaction data for each height of a heel of the tilting controller; b) extracting quantitative data of tilting conditions optimized according to a foot shape through machine learning based on the raw data; c) acquiring personal information of a user, and foot-related physical information that includes at least one of a foot straight line length, a ball width of the foot, a height of the top of the foot, a medial longitudinal arch, and a straight line length of the ball of the foot by image-processing a foot image; and d) deriving last information to which a tilting value that is the most similar information from quantitative data through a matching algorithm based on the personal information and the foot-related physical information of the user, and recommending the derived last information.
17. The method for offering user-customized last information of claim 16, wherein
the a) comprises
setting a tilting condition according to a foot pressure measurement algorithm by being connected with a plurality of tilting controllers arranged in parallel with each other and then extracting the foot pressure data at a time that the left foot weight and the right foot weight are balanced.
18. The method for offering user-customized last information of claim 16, wherein
the b) comprises
extracting one of input parameters of a tilting condition for each heel height, a foot pressure sum, a foot pressure average, a foot pressure standard deviation, a number of pressure sensors (cells) for measuring foot pressure, a foot pressure ratio of the front foot portion mechanism and the rear foot portion mechanism, EMG similarity (similarity to flat-level EMG), foot comfort satisfaction, and a degree of foot tilt, and performing machine learning.
19. The method for offering user-customized last information of claim 16, wherein
the d) comprises
a fitting service that displays a gap as an image by overlapping the last information and the user's foot data.
20. A computer readable recording medium where a program for implementing a method for offering user-customized last information is recorded, the method for offering user-customized last information comprising: a) generating raw data by accumulating qualitative data that matches a subject's personal information, foot-related physical information, foot pressure data, EMG data, and satisfaction data for each height of a heel of the tilting controller; b) extracting quantitative data of tilting conditions optimized according to a foot shape through machine learning based on the raw data; c) acquiring personal information of a user, and foot-related physical information that includes at least one of foot straight line length, a ball width of the foot, a height of the top of the foot, medial and lateral longitudinal arches, and a straight line length of the ball of the foot by image-processing a foot image; and d) deriving last information to which a tilting value that is the most similar information from quantitative data through a matching algorithm based on the personal information and the foot-related physical information of the user, and recommending the derived last information.
</claims>
</document>
