<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/10,A61B34/20,A61B34/30,A61B90/00,G06N20/00,G06T1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUTOM CO., LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, Jong Hyuck
YANG, Hoon Mo
KIM, Ho Seung
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67775613
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SURGERY OPTIMIZATION METHOD AND DEVICE
</title>

<abstract>
A surgery optimizing method performed by a computer is provided. The method includes generating a plurality of genes corresponding to a surgical procedure based on the surgical procedure composed of at least one detailed surgical operation, performing virtual surgery on each of the plurality of genes to evaluate whether surgery is optimized, selecting at least one gene among the plurality of genes based on the evaluation result to apply a genetic algorithm, and applying the genetic algorithm to generate a new gene and deriving an optimal surgical procedure based on the new gene.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A surgery optimizing method performed by a computer, the method comprising: generating a plurality of genes corresponding to a surgical procedure based on the surgical procedure composed of at least one detailed surgical operation; performing virtual surgery on each of the plurality of genes to evaluate whether surgery is optimized; selecting at least one gene among the plurality of genes based on the evaluation result to apply a genetic algorithm; and applying the genetic algorithm to generate a new gene and deriving an optimal surgical procedure based on the new gene.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the plurality of genes includes: obtaining surgical cue sheet data configured to include the at least one detailed surgical operation; and generating a first gene among the plurality of genes based on the surgical cue sheet data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the evaluating of whether the surgery is optimized includes: performing the virtual surgery on each of the plurality of genes based on a detailed surgical operation in the surgical cue sheet data; and calculating a fitness value for each of the plurality of genes through the virtual surgery to evaluate whether the surgery is optimized.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the fitness value is calculated using at least one of information about whether the surgery is successful, information associated with surgery time, and information associated with a surgical instrument.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the applying of the genetic algorithm includes: selecting at least one gene having a fitness value matched with a predetermined condition among the plurality of genes; and applying a gene algorithm of at least one of crossover and mutation to the at least one gene.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the deriving of the optimal surgical procedure includes: performing the virtual surgery on the new gene to calculate the fitness value; and determining whether the fitness value of the new gene is matched with a predetermined condition, to derive optimized surgical cue sheet data applied to the new gene.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the detailed surgical operation is configured to include at least one of surgical type information, surgical site information, and surgical instrument information, as a minimum unit of a surgical operation divided depending on a specific criterion in the surgical process, and
wherein the surgical cue sheet data is composed of the at least one detailed surgical operation and is obtained by recording a specific surgical procedure.
8. A device comprising: a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: generate a plurality of genes corresponding to a surgical procedure based on the surgical procedure composed of at least one detailed surgical operation; perform virtual surgery on each of the plurality of genes to evaluate whether surgery is optimized; select at least one gene among the plurality of genes based on the evaluation result to apply a genetic algorithm; and apply the genetic algorithm to generate a new gene and derive an optimal surgical procedure based on the new gene.
9. A computer program stored in a computer-readable recording medium to perform a method of claim 1, in combination with a computer being hardware.
10. An optimized surgical instrument providing method performed by a computer, the method comprising: obtaining a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; simulating a surgical operation within the virtual body model, using a surgical instrument; and deriving a configuration of the surgical instrument suitable to apply a surgical operation performed by the surgical instrument in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the deriving of the configuration of the surgical instrument includes: obtaining motion information of the surgical instrument based on the simulation result; and deriving the configuration of the surgical instrument suitable to apply the motion information in the inner body space of the surgical subject, and wherein the configuration of the surgical instrument includes: an operation unit configured to apply a surgical operation on a surgery target site; and an arm part connected to the operation unit and configured to operate.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the deriving of the configuration of the surgical instrument includes: obtaining motion information of the operation unit based on the simulation result; and determining a type of the operation unit, which is optimized, applying a surgical operation to the surgery target site of the surgical subject based on the motion information of the operation unit.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the deriving of the configuration of the surgical instrument includes: obtaining inner body information and body surface information of the surgical subject; and determining a structure of the arm part based on the inner body information and the body surface information, wherein the inner body information includes information about a placement state of an organ positioned in the inner body space of the surgical subject, and wherein the body surface information includes body surface shape information of the surgical subject.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the determining of the structure of the arm part includes: calculating an operation range of the arm part from the inner body information and the body surface information; and deriving a placement relationship with the operation unit based on the operation range of the arm part to determine the structure of the arm part.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the determining of the structure of the arm part includes:
determining at least one of a length of the arm part, whether there is a joint part, and motion information of the joint part depending on the placement relationship with the operation unit.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining an optimal entry position on a body surface of the surgical subject into which the surgical instrument is inserted, wherein the deriving of the configuration of the surgical instrument includes:
determining the configuration of the surgical instrument in consideration of the optimal entry position.
17. A device comprising: a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: obtain a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; simulate a surgical operation within the virtual body model, using a surgical instrument; and derive a configuration of the surgical instrument suitable to apply a surgical operation performed by the surgical instrument in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
18. An optimal entry position providing method of a surgical instrument performed by a computer, the method comprising: obtaining a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; performing simulation using an operation unit of a surgical instrument for performing a surgical operation on a surgical target site of the surgical subject in the virtual body model; and calculating an optimal entry position on a body surface of the surgical subject, to which the surgical operation performed by the operation unit is capable of being applied in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the performing of the simulation includes:
obtaining motion information of the operation unit upon simulating a surgical operation for the surgical target site in the virtual body model, using the operation unit without considering a configuration of an arm part where a motion occurs depending on the surgical operation of the operation unit.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the calculating of the optimal entry position includes: extracting an enterable range from the body surface of the surgical subject, to which the motion information of the operation unit is capable of being applied in the inner body space of the surgical subject; and calculating the optimal entry position from the enterable range by reflecting an operation range of the arm part where a motion occurs depending on the surgical operation of the operation unit.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the operation range of the arm part is a range in which the arm part is capable of being operated depending on the motion of the operation unit based on inner body information and body surface information of the surgical subject,
wherein the inner body information includes information about a placement state of an organ positioned in the inner body space of the surgical subject, and
wherein the body surface information includes body surface shape information of the surgical subject.
22. The method of claim 18, further comprising:
deriving a configuration of the surgical instrument suitable to perform the surgical operation by inserting the surgical instrument into the optimal entry position.
23. A device comprising: a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: obtain a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; perform simulation using an operation unit of a surgical instrument for performing a surgical operation on a surgical target site of the surgical subject in the virtual body model; and calculate an optimal entry position on a body surface of the surgical subject, to which the surgical operation performed by the operation unit is capable of being applied in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
24. An optimized surgical instrument providing method performed by a computer, the method comprising: obtaining a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; simulating a surgical operation corresponding to an actual surgical operation of the surgical subject in the virtual body model; and deriving a surgical instrument or surgical robot suitable to apply the surgical operation in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the deriving of the surgical instrument or surgical robot includes:
analyzing the surgical operation based on the simulation result to determine a type of a surgical robot optimized for the surgical subject or a type of a surgical instrument included in a specific surgical robot.
26. The method of claim 24, further comprising: obtaining an optimal entry position on a body surface of the surgical subject into which the surgical instrument is inserted, wherein the deriving of the surgical instrument or surgical robot includes:
determining the surgical instrument or the surgical robot in consideration of the optimal entry position.
27. A device comprising: a memory configured to store one or more instructions; and a processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: obtain a virtual body model generated to be matched with a body state of a surgical subject; simulate a surgical operation corresponding to an actual surgical operation of the surgical subject in the virtual body model; and derive a surgical instrument or surgical robot suitable to apply the surgical operation in an inner body space of the surgical subject based on the simulation result.
28. A computer program stored in a computer-readable recording medium to perform a method of one of claim 10, claim 18, and claim 24, in combination with a computer being hardware.
</claims>
</document>
