<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,H03M7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
VAIDYANATHAN, KARTHIK
Appu, Abhishek R.
Liskay, Eric
Surti, Prasoonkumar
Szerszen, Karol
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69147462
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPRESSION FOR SPARSE DATA STRUCTURES UTILIZING MODE SEARCH APPROXIMATION
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments are generally directed to compression for compression for sparse data structures utilizing mode search approximation. An embodiment of an apparatus includes one or more processors including a graphics processor to process data; and a memory for storage of data, including compressed data. The one or more processors are to provide for compression of a data structure, including identification of a mode in the data structure, the data structure including a plurality of values and the mode being a most repeated value in a data structure, wherein identification of the mode includes application of a mode approximation operation, and encoding of an output vector to include the identified mode, a significance map to indicate locations at which the mode is present in the data structure, and remaining uncompressed data from the data structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors including a graphics processor to process data; and a memory for storage of data, including compressed data; wherein the one or more processors are to provide for compression of a data structure, including: identification of a mode in the data structure, the data structure including a plurality of values and the mode being a most repeated value in a data structure, wherein identification of the mode includes application of a mode approximation operation, and encoding of an output vector to include the identified mode, a significance map to indicate locations at which the mode is present in the data structure, and remaining uncompressed data from the data structure.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the mode approximation operation includes a hierarchy of comparison levels, each comparison level of the hierarchy of comparison levels including one or more comparisons of at least a portion of two or more values of the plurality of values.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein each comparison level of the hierarchy of comparison levels includes one or more ternary comparisons between a first bit slice from a first value of the plurality of values, a second bit slice from a second value of the plurality of values, and a third bit slice from a third value of the plurality of values, wherein each ternary comparison of the one or more ternary comparisons includes: comparing the first bit slice to the second bit slice and returning the first bit slice if the first bit slice and the second bit slice match; comparing the second bit slice to the third bit slice and returning the second bit slice if the second bit slice and the third bit slice match; and returning one of the first, second, and third bit slices if the first bit slice and the second bit slice do not match and the second bit slice and the third bit slice do not match.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein each bit slice is two bits in length.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the mode approximation operation includes comparison of less than all values of the plurality of values.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the data structure includes 128 8-bit values, and the hierarchy of comparison levels includes 4 levels to compare 81 of the 128 values.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the significance map includes a plurality of bits, each bit of the plurality of bit representing a respective value of the plurality of values, and wherein a bit that is set indicates that the respective value for the bit contains the mode.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the remaining uncompressed data includes each value of the plurality of values that does not contain the mode, values within the remaining uncompressed data being stored in order of the values in the data structure.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the data structure is a data structure for machine learning.
10. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage mediums having stored thereon executable computer program instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
performing a compression operation including: identifying a mode in a data structure, the data structure including a plurality of values and the mode being a most repeated value in a data structure, wherein identification of the mode includes application of a mode approximation algorithm, and encoding of an output vector to include the identified mode, a significance map to indicate locations at which the mode is present in the data structure, and remaining uncompressed data from the data structure.
11. The one or more storage mediums of claim 10, wherein the mode approximation algorithm includes a hierarchy of comparison levels, each comparison level including one or more comparisons of at least a portion of two or more values of the plurality of values.
12. The one or more storage mediums of claim 11, wherein each comparison level of the hierarchy of comparison levels includes one or more ternary comparisons between a first bit slice from a first value of the plurality of values, a second bit slice from a second value of the plurality of values, and a third bit slice from a third value of the plurality of values, wherein each ternary comparison of the one or more ternary comparisons includes: comparing the first bit slice to the second bit slice and returning the first bit slice if the first bit slice and the second bit slice match; comparing the second bit slice to the third bit slice and returning the second bit slice if the second bit slice and the third bit slice match; and returning one of the first, second, and third bit slices if the first bit slice and the second bit slice do not match and the second bit slice and the third bit slice do not match.
13. The one or more storage mediums of claim 10, wherein the remaining uncompressed data includes each value of the plurality of values that does not contain the mode, values within the remaining uncompressed data being stored in order of the values in the data structure.
14. The one or more mediums of claim 10, further comprising executable computer program instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: performing a second compression operation in parallel with the compression operation; and selecting an output vector from either the compression operation or the second compression operation.
15. The one or more mediums of claim 10, further comprising executable computer program instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising:
decompressing the encoded output vector, including: parsing the output vector to obtain the significance map, mode, and uncompressed data; and inserting either mode or a next uncompressed data value at each of a plurality of locations based on the significance map.
</claims>
</document>
