<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/10,A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B6/03,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Medi Whale Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, Geun Yeong
CHOI, Tae Geun
RIM, Hyung Taek
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71098572
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ASSISTING IN DIAGNOSIS OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a method of assisting in diagnosis of a target heart disease using a fundus image, the method including: obtaining a target fundus image which is obtained by imaging a fundus of a testee; on the basis of the target fundus image, obtaining heart disease diagnosis assistance information of the testee according to the target fundus image, via a heart disease diagnosis assistance neural network model which obtains diagnosis assistance information that is used for diagnosis of the target heart disease according to the fundus image; and outputting the heart disease diagnosis assistance information of the testee.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A diagnosis assistance method for assisting diagnosis of a target cardiovascular disease based on a fundus image, comprising: obtaining a target fundus image from a fundus of a testee; based on the target fundus image, obtaining a cardiovascular disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee related to the target fundus image, via a cardiovascular disease diagnosis assistant neural network model which obtains a diagnosis assistant information and is used for a diagnosis of the target cardiovascular disease; and outputting a heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee; wherein:
the heart disease diagnosis assistant information includes at least one of a grade information which includes a grade selected from a plurality of grades indicating an extent of risk of the target heart disease, a score information for determining a risk of the target heart disease and a risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a risk group for the target heart disease or not.
2. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, further comprising: reconstructing the target fundus image so that a vessel element included in the target fundus image is highlighted for facilitating the diagnosis of the target fundus image, wherein, the obtaining of the target heart disease diagnosis assistant information includes obtaining the target heart disease diagnosis assistant information based on the reconstructed target fundus image.
3. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 2, wherein: the reconstructing of the target fundus image further comprises, performing pre-processing which highlights a region at which the vessel included in the target fundus image is distributed.
4. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 2, wherein: the reconstructing of the target fundus image further comprises, extracting a region at which the vessel included in the target fundus image is distributed.
5. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, wherein:
the target heart disease is a coronary artery disease.
6. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 5, wherein: the grade information is a coronary artery disease risk grade information which describes a risk for the coronary artery disease, the score information is a coronary artery disease calcium score information, and the risk information is a coronary artery disease risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a high-risk group of the coronary artery disease.
7. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, wherein:
the heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model is trained to output the heart disease diagnosis assistant information based on the fundus image, using a fundus image training data including a plurality of the fundus image on which a diagnosis assistant information label is assigned.
8. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, wherein: the obtaining of the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee further comprises, obtaining the class activation map for the heart disease diagnosis assistant information according to the target fundus image.
9. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 8, wherein: the outputting of the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee further comprises, outputting a heart disease diagnosis assistant feature map which is generated based on the class activation map for the heart disease diagnosis assistant information, wherein the feature map is provided in a form which corresponds to the target fundus image, and wherein the feature map shows a feature region related to the heart disease diagnosis assistant information.
10. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 9, wherein: the outputting of the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee, further comprises, outputting the target fundus image and the heart disease diagnosis assistant feature map being overlapped.
11. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, wherein: the outputting of the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee, further comprises, outputting an instruction information which is determined based on the heart disease diagnosis information of the testee, wherein, the instruction information is determined by using a pre-stored heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation.
12. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 11, wherein: the instruction information is determined by the pre-stored heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation, and the heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation includes a possible medical treatment for the testee corresponds to the heart disease diagnosis assistant information.
13. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 1, further comprising:
obtaining an eye disease diagnosis assistant information, via the heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model which obtains the eye disease diagnosis information according to the fundus image, based on the target fundus image.
14. A method for assisting diagnosis of a target heart disease based on a fundus image, comprising: obtaining a target fundus image from a fundus of a testee; obtaining a heart disease diagnosis assistant information for the testee, via a heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model which obtains the heart disease diagnosis assistant information based on the fundus image, based on a reconstructed target fundus image which is obtained by performing a reconstruction highlighting a vessel element on the target fundus image; and outputting the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee; wherein the heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model is trained using a fundus image training data including a plurality of the fundus image of which the vessel element is highlighted and a plurality of the heart disease diagnosis assistant label assigned on the plurality of the fundus image.
15. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 14,
the target heart disease is a coronary artery disease,
the heart disease diagnosis assistant information includes at least one of a grade information which includes a grade selected from a plurality of grades describing an extent of risk of the target heart disease, a score information for determining a risk of the target heart disease and a risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a high-risk group of the target heart disease or not.
16. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 15,
the grade information is a coronary artery disease risk grade information which describes a risk for the coronary artery disease,
the score information is a coronary artery disease calcium score information, and
the risk information is a coronary artery disease risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a high-risk group of the coronary artery disease.
17. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 14, wherein: the outputting of the heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee, further comprises, outputting an instruction information which is determined based on the heart disease diagnosis information of the testee, wherein, the instruction information is determined by using a pre-stored heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation and the heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation includes a possible medical treatment for the testee corresponds to the heart disease diagnosis assistant information.
18. The diagnosis assistant method of claim 14, further comprising:
obtaining an eye disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee according to the target fundus image, via the heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model which obtains an eye disease diagnosis assistant information according to the fundus image, based on the target fundus image.
19. A heart disease diagnosis assistant device which assists a diagnosis of a target heart disease using a fundus image, comprising: a fundus image obtaining unit which obtains a target fundus image from a fundus of a testee; a heart disease diagnosis assistant information obtaining unit which obtains a heart disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee according to the target fundus image, via a heart disease diagnosis assistant model which obtains a diagnosis assistant information used for the diagnosis of the target heart disease according to the fundus image, based on the target fundus image; and a heart disease diagnosis assistant information output unit which outputs the obtained heart disease diagnosis assistant information; wherein, the heart disease diagnosis assistant information includes at least one of a grade information which includes a grade selected from a plurality of grades describing an extent of risk of the target heart disease, a score information for determining a risk of the target heart disease and a risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a high-risk group of the target heart disease or not.
20. The heart disease diagnosis assistant device of claim 19, further comprising: an image reconstruction unit which reconstructs the target fundus image so that a vessel element included in the target fundus image is highlighted, to facilitate the diagnosis of the target heart disease, wherein, the heart disease diagnosis assistant information obtaining unit obtains the heart disease diagnosis assistant information based on the reconstructed target fundus image.
21. The heart disease diagnosis assistant device of claim 19, wherein: the target heart disease is a coronary artery disease, and the grade information is a coronary artery disease risk grade information which describes a risk for the coronary artery disease, the score information is a coronary artery disease calcium score information, and the risk information is a coronary artery disease risk information which indicates whether the testee is included in a high-risk group of the coronary artery disease.
22. The heart disease diagnosis assistant device of claim 19, wherein: the heart disease diagnosis assistant information obtaining unit obtains a class activation map for the heart disease diagnosis assistant information according to the target fundus image, the heart disease diagnosis assistant information output unit which outputs a heart disease diagnosis assistant feature map which is provided in a form which corresponds to the target fundus image, and the feature map shows a feature region related to the heart disease diagnosis assistant information.
23. The heart disease diagnosis assistant device of claim 19, wherein:
the heart disease diagnosis assistant information output unit outputs an instruction information determined by using a pre-stored heart disease diagnosis assistant information-instruction information relation, based on a heart disease diagnosis assistant information.
24. The heart disease diagnosis assistant device of claim 19, further comprising: An eye disease diagnosis assistant information obtaining unit which obtains an eye disease diagnosis assistant information of the testee according to the target fundus image, via the heart disease diagnosis assistant neural network model which obtains the eye disease diagnosis assistant information according to the fundus image, based on the target fundus image, wherein the heart disease diagnosis assistant information output unit outputs the eye disease diagnosis assistant information.
25. A computer-readable recording medium, characterized in storing a program according to claims 1 to 18.
</claims>
</document>
