<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Cerdán Ortega, Albert
Gomà Huguet, Anton
Ramos Gana, Ander
</assignee>

<inventors>
Cerdán Ortega, Albert
Gomà Huguet, Anton
Ramos Gana, Ander
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67180711
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, SYSTEM AND COMPUTER PROGRAMS FOR ONLINE SHOPPING OF EDIBLE PRODUCTS EXPOSED IN A COUNTER
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program for online shopping of edible products exposed in a counter comprising receiving, by processing unit (100), real-time data of said counter, said real-time data being acquired by an image acquisition system (110) and including an image showing products exposed in the counter and labels associated to each product, each label containing information including a name of the product and its associated price; analyzing the received real-time data and as a result providing a register (101) with a list including the name of each product and its associated price; c) checking, whether said register (101) coincides with the historical information of a database (120); and receiving, by a user interface (131), a request for a purchasing order from a user, said request including a selection of a product whose label is activable and a quantity thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for online shopping of edible products exposed in a counter, wherein a processing unit (100) is operatively connected to at least one image acquisition system (110), a database (120) and a user interface (131), said database (120) containing historical information of edible products, including a name of the products and its associated prices, that can be exposed in a counter of a physical location, said at least one image acquisition system (110) being located in said physical location and having a field of view focused on the counter, and said user interface (131) being implemented on a user computing device (130) and allowing a user to select a product exposed in said counter based on real-time data acquired by the image acquisition system (110), the method comprising: a) receiving, at said processing unit (100), every certain time interval or whenever scene of counter varies, real-time data of said counter, said real-time data being acquired by the image acquisition system (110) and including at least one image showing the products exposed in the counter and labels associated to each product, each label containing information including a name of the product and its associated price; b) analyzing, by said processing unit (100), the received real-time data using a machine learning model, said machine learning model detecting the labels within the real-time data, identifying a position of the labels in the counter and identifying said information contained in the labels, the processing unit (100) as a result of said analysis further providing a register (101) with a list at least including the name of each product and its associated price; c) checking, by the processing unit (100), whether said register (101) coincides with the historical information of the database (120) by comparing the name of the products, and its associated prices, of the register (101) with the name of the products, and its associated prices, of the database (120),
wherein if no deviation with the name of the products or the associated price exists, the processing unit (100) causes said labels to be activable via the user interface (131);
wherein if a deviation with the name of a given product exists, the processing unit (100) causes the label of said given product to be activable via the user interface (131) only if the deviation makes it possible to identify the name of the given product; and
wherein if a deviation with the associated price of a given product exists, the processing unit (100) changes the associated price of said given product in the database (120) to the associated price of said given product of the register (101) and further causes the label of the given product to be activable via the user interface (131); and d) receiving, at the user interface (131), a request for a purchasing order from the user via the user interface (131), said request being received upon the user interface (131) showing real-time data and said request at least including a selection of a product whose label is activable and a quantity thereof, such that the purchased order can be added to a user interface shopping cart.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein in said step b) the machine learning model further identifies the products from the real-time data by crossing stored information on how every product looks like and the names of the product included in the labels nearby.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, wherein the machine learning model includes a convolutional neural network.
4. The method of any of previous claims, wherein in said step d) said selection of the given product is performed either by clicking in the label associated to the product or by clicking on the image of the product.
5. The method of any of previous claims, wherein the list of the register (101) further includes a timestamp of the analysis and an indication of the position of the product in the counter.
6. The method of any of previous claims, wherein said request further includes an indication of how the product has to be served.
7. The method of any of previous claims, wherein the edible products are fresh products including meats, fish, charcuterie, cheeses, fruits, vegetables or breads.
8. A system for online shopping of edible products exposed in a counter, comprising: - a database (120) that contains historical information of edible products, including a name of the products and its associated prices, that can be exposed in a counter of a physical location; - at least one image acquisition system (110) located in said physical location and having a field of view focused on the counter; - a user interface (131) configured to be implemented on a user computing device (130) and to allow a user to select a product exposed in said counter based on real-time data acquired by the image acquisition unit (110); - a processing unit (100), wherein the processing unit (100) is operatively connected to said at least one image acquisition system (110), said database (120) and said user interface (131); - software executable on the processing unit (100) configured to: a) receive, every certain time interval or whenever scene of the counter varies, real-time data of said counter, said real-time data being acquired by the image acquisition system (110) and including at least one image showing the products exposed in the counter and labels associated to each product, each label containing information including a name of the product and its associated price; b) analyze, the received real-time data using a machine learning model, said machine learning model detecting the labels within the real-time data, identifying a position of the labels in the counter and identifying said information contained in the labels, the processing unit (100) as a result of said analysis further providing a register (101) with a list at least including the name of each product and its associated price; c) check whether said register (101) coincides with the historical information of the database (120) by comparing the name of the products, and its associated prices, of the register (101) with the name of the products, and its associated prices, of the database (120), wherein if no deviation with the name of the products or the associated price exists, the processing unit (100) causes said labels to be activable via the user interface (131);
wherein if a deviation with the name of a given product exists, the processing unit (100) causes the label of said given product to be activable via the user interface (131) only if the deviation makes it possible to identify the name of the given product; and
wherein if a deviation with the associated price of a given product exists, the processing unit (100) changes the associated price of said given product in the database (120) to the associated price of said given product of the register (101) and further causes the label of the given product to be activable via the user interface (131); and
wherein the user interface (131) is further configured to receive a request for a purchasing order from the user via the user interface (131), said request being received upon the user interface (131) showing real-time data and said request at least including a selection of a product whose label is activable and a quantity thereof, such that the purchased order can be added to a user interface shopping cart.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein said image acquisition system (110) includes a camera including a pan-tilt-zoom camera and/or a microscope camera.
10. The system of claim 8 or 9, further comprising one or more microphones, wherein the microphones are either omnidirectional or directional microphones.
11. The system of any of the claims 8 to 10, wherein the machine learning model includes a convolutional neural network.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the list of the register (101) further includes a timestamp of the analysis and an indication of the position of the product in the counter.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein said request further includes an indication of how the product has to be served.
14. The system of any of the claims 8 to 13, wherein the edible products are fresh products including meats, fish, charcuterie, cheeses, fruits, vegetables or breads.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising software instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing system implement the method of any of claims 1 to 7.
</claims>
</document>
