<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/02,H04L12/24,H04L12/851,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SANDVINE
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMANUJAM, SRINIDHI
STREEVALSAN, SHYAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69784062
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CLASSIFYING NETWORK TRAFFIC
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for classifying network traffic including: providing a framework of models configured to classify network traffic; determining, via a packet processing engine, whether the network traffic flow is encrypted; if the network traffic flow is encrypted: extracting, via the packet processing engine, encrypted flow attributes associated with a network traffic flow; deriving further flow attributes based on the extracted encrypted flow attributes; determining at least one model of the framework of models based on the derived flow attributes and extracted encrypted flow attributes; and classifying, via a traffic classification engine, the traffic flow as a category of traffic based on the at least one model; and if the network traffic flow is not encrypted: extracting non-encrypted flow attributes associated with a network traffic flow; classifying the traffic flow as a category of traffic based on the non-encrypted flow attributes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for classifying network traffic comprising: providing a framework of models configured to classify network traffic; determining whether the network traffic flow is encrypted; if the network traffic flow is encrypted: extracting encrypted flow attributes associated with a network traffic flow; deriving further flow attributes based on the extracted encrypted flow attributes; determining at least one model of the framework of models based on the derived flow attributes and extracted encrypted flow attributes; and classifying the traffic flow as a category of traffic based on the at least one model; and if the network traffic flow is not encrypted: extracting non-encrypted flow attributes associated with a network traffic flow; classifying the traffic flow as a category of traffic based on the non-encrypted flow attributes.
2. A method for classifying network traffic according to claim 1, wherein classifying the traffic flow as a category of traffic comprises determining a type of service represented by the traffic flow or determining at least one feature associated with the traffic flow.
3. A method for classifying network traffic according to claim 1, further comprising: determining a confidence level of the classification of the traffic flow; comparing the confidence level with a predetermined threshold; if the confidence level is higher than the predetermined threshold, marking the flow as classified; and if the confidence level is lower than the predetermined threshold, determining whether any further model may be used to classify the traffic.
4. A method for classifying network traffic according to claim 1, further comprising: determining an accuracy level for at least one model of the frameworks of models; comparing the accuracy level to a predetermined accuracy threshold; if the accuracy level is higher than the accuracy threshold, continue using the at least one model of the framework of models; otherwise, updating or removing the model from the framework of models.
5. A method for classifying network traffic according to claim 1, wherein the network traffic flow categories is selected from a group comprising: Web Browsing; Video Streaming; Bulk Data Transfer; Peer to Peer (P2P) Data Transfer; Virtual Private Networks (VPN); and Voice Over IP (VoIP).
6. A method for classifying network traffic according to claim 1, further comprising: determining whether the category of the network traffic has a classifier or sub-classifier; if there a classifier or sub-classifier, determining the classifier or sub-classifier based on the derived and extracted flow categories; otherwise classifying the traffic as the category of network traffic.
7. A system for classifying network traffic comprising: a framework of models configured to classify network traffic; a packet processing engine configured to determine whether the network traffic flow is encrypted; the packet processing engine further configured to extract encrypted flow attributes associated with a network traffic flow and deriving further flow attributes based on the extracted encrypted flow attributes if the network flow is encrypted and configured to extract non-encrypted flow attributes if the traffic flow is not encrypted; a traffic classification engine comprising: a deep classification engine configured to determine at least one model of the framework of models based on the derived and extracted flow attributes and classify the traffic flow based on the at least one model; and a signature classification engine configured to classify the traffic flow as a category of traffic based on the non-encrypted flow attributes.
8. A system for classifying network traffic according to claim 7, wherein classifying the traffic flow comprises determining a type of service represented by the traffic flow or determining at least one feature associated with the traffic flow.
9. A system for classifying network traffic according to claim 7, wherein the deep classification engine is further configured to: determine a confidence level of the classification of the traffic flow; compare the confidence level with a predetermined threshold; if the confidence level is higher than the predetermined threshold, mark the flow as classified; and if the confidence level is lower than the predetermined threshold, determine whether any further model may be used to classify the traffic.
10. A system for classifying network traffic according to claim 7, wherein the network traffic category is selected from the group comprising: Web Browsing; Video Streaming; Bulk Data Transfer; Peer to Peer (P2P) Data Transfer; Virtual Private Networks (VPN); and Voice Over IP (VoIP).
11. A system for classifying network traffic according to claim 7, wherein the traffic classification engine is further configured to: determine whether the category of the network traffic has a classifier or sub-classifier; if there a classifier or sub-classifier, determine the classifier or sub-classifier based on the derived and extracted flow categories; otherwise classify the traffic as the category of network traffic.
12. A method for building a framework of models for classifying network traffic, the method comprising:
for each type of traffic flow to be classified: create a traffic flow with data labels; extract flow attributes associated with the traffic flow; derive flow attributes based on the extracted flow attributes; compare extracted flow attributes and derived flow attributes with the data labels; and determine a model for the traffic flow based on the compared flow attributes.
13. A method for building a framework of models according to claim 12, wherein comparing the extracted flow attributes and derived flow attributes with the data labels comprises: normalizing the flow attributes; aggregating the flow attributes; and deriving any additional data points required to perform the comparison.
14. A method of building a framework of models according to claim 12, further comprising: reviewing the flow attributes associated with the model to determine any redundancy; removing redundant flow attributes; and removing highly correlated data points in the model.
</claims>
</document>
