<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIM, Hyungjun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67841019
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGE PROCESSING APPARATUS AND IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing apparatus filters an image and obtains a signal in a threshold range as a shadow. The image processing apparatus obtains boundary information by applying boundary detection filters associated with different directions. The shadow is applied, based on the boundary information, to a portion of the input image to provide an output image with improved sharpness.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories storing program code, wherein execution of the program code by the one or more processors is configured to cause the image processing apparatus to: obtain, based on filtering of an input image, a shadow, wherein the shadow is a signal in a threshold range; obtain boundary information by applying, to the input image, a plurality of boundary detection filters, wherein each boundary detection filter of the plurality of boundary detection filters is associated with a different direction; and obtain an output image by applying the shadow to a region identified based on the boundary information.
2. The image processing apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: filter by obtaining an output signal by filtering with a second-order differentiation filter, and obtain the shadow by clipping a positive signal or a negative signal from the output signal.
3. The image processing apparatus of claim 1 or 2, wherein the shadow corresponds to at least one of: an inner boundary of a first object in the input image, wherein the inner boundary includes a first pixel having a first pixel value that is less than a first threshold, or an outer boundary of a second object in the input image, wherein the outer boundary includes a second pixel having a second pixel value that is greater than or equal to a second threshold, wherein the second threshold is greater than the first threshold.
4. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 3, wherein the boundary information comprises position information and magnitude information,
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to identify the boundary region based on the position information, and
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to obtain the output image by: applying magnitude information corresponding to the boundary region to the shadow, and inserting the shadow to which the magnitude information is applied into the boundary region.
5. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 4,
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to filter with a second-order differentiation filter, and
wherein a first size of each of the plurality of boundary detection filters is greater than a second size of the second-order differentiation filter.
6. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 5,
wherein the input image includes a first pixel block, and
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to:
obtain the boundary information by: obtaining a first plurality of filter output values by applying the plurality of boundary detection filters to the first pixel block, and obtaining first boundary information associated with the first pixel block based on a first value of the first plurality of filter output values.
7. The image processing apparatus of claim 6,
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to obtain the boundary information associated with the first pixel block based on: a magnitude of a smallest negative value of the first plurality of filter output values, or a maximum absolute value of the first plurality of filter output values.
8. The image processing apparatus of claim 7,
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: obtain a weight by performing a normalization by applying a threshold to: i) the magnitude of the smallest negative value or ii) the maximum absolute value, and obtain the output image by applying the weight to the obtained shadow.
9. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 8,
wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine, based on a characteristic of the boundary region, at least one of a number or a size of the plurality of boundary detection filters.
10. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 9,
wherein the plurality of boundary detection filters comprises a first filter in which a same filter coefficient is overlapped in a line unit in a first direction, a second filter in which a same filter coefficient is overlapped in a line unit in a second direction, a third filter in which a same filter coefficient is overlapped in a line unit in a third direction, and a fourth filter in which a same filter coefficient is overlapped in a line unit in a fourth direction.
11. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 10,
wherein, based on a number of the plurality of boundary detection filters being N, a direction of an nth boundary detection filter is calculated through Equation below;
angle of nth boundary detection filter = 180 ∗ (n-1)/N.
12. The image processing apparatus according to anyone of claims 1 to 11, further comprising: a display, wherein the one or more processors are further are configured to control the display to output the output image, and wherein the output image is a 4K ultra high definition (UHD) image or an 8K UHD image.
13. An image processing method of an image processing apparatus, the image processing method comprising: obtaining, based on filtering of an input image, a shadow, wherein the shadow is a signal in a threshold range; obtaining boundary information by applying, to the input image, a plurality of boundary detection filters, wherein each boundary detection filter of the plurality of boundary detection filters is associated with a different direction; and obtaining an output image by applying the shadow to a region identified based on the boundary information.
14. The image processing method of claim 13,
wherein the obtaining the shadow comprises obtaining an output signal by filtering with a second-order differentiation filter, and
clipping a positive signal or a negative signal from the output signal.
15. The image processing method of claim 13 or 14,
wherein the shadow corresponds to at least one of: an inner boundary of a first object in the input image, wherein the inner boundary includes a first pixel having a first pixel value that is less than a first threshold, or an outer boundary of a second object in the input image, wherein the outer boundary includes a second pixel having a second pixel value that is greater than or equal to a second threshold, wherein the second threshold is greater than the first threshold.
</claims>
</document>
