<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q50/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KLOS, HANS-HENNING
PAULITSCH, CHRISTOPH
SCHNITTGER, JENS
BÜRGER, Niklas
BÄR, Felix
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66476442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
A METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR PROVIDING PREDICTIONS OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OF A COMPLEX MANUFACTURING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for providing predictions of key performance indicators,KPI^,of a product variant, PV, of a product family, PF, to be manufactured by a complex manufacturing system, MSYS, in a manufacturing process, MP, the method comprising the steps of providing (S1) a manufacturing operation model, MOpM, for each manufacturing operation type, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the product family, PF; providing (S2) by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO; learning (S3) automatically model parameters, p, of the provided manufacturing operation models, MOpM, based on collected process context data, PCD, collected process execution data, PED, and measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM; and evaluating (S4) an updated production efficiency model, PEM, combining updated manufacturing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing operation models, MOpM, to calculate the predictions of the key performance indicators,KPI^,of the product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of the respective product variant, PV.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing predictions of key performance indicators, of a product variant, PV, of a product family, PF, to be manufactured by a complex manufacturing system, MSYS, in a manufacturing process, MP,
the method comprising the steps of: (a) providing (S1) a manufacturing operation model, MOpM, for each manufacturing operation type, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the product family, PF; (b) providing (S2) by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO; (c) learning (S3) automatically model parameters, p, of the provided manufacturing operation models, MOpM, based on collected process context data, PCD,
and collected process execution data, PED, and measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM; and (d) evaluating (S4) an updated production efficiency model, PEM, combining updated manufacturing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing operation models, MOpM, to calculate the predictions of the key performance indicators, of the product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of the respective product variant, PV.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein the key performance indicators, predicted for different product variants, PV, of the same product family, PF, are evaluated to select a product variant, PV, manufactured by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 wherein the key performance indicators, predicted for different production variants PDV of the same product variant PV, are evaluated to select, in particular automatically, by the complex manufacturing system MSYS, the most efficient production variant PDV.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, the process context data, PCD, and the process execution data, PED, are collected during manufacturing processes, MP, having been executed to manufacture product variants, PV, of the same product family, PF.
5. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 4 wherein the key performance indicators, KPI, depend on efficiency function values, EFV, measured during manufacturing of the product variant, PV.
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 4 wherein the provided process context data, PCD, collected during a manufacturing process, MP, to manufacture a product variant, PV, of the same product family, PF, comprise - a sequence and structure of the manufacturing operations, MO, performed during the respective manufacturing process, MP; - a configuration of the product variant, PV, manufactured by the sequence of manufacturing operations, MO; and - time context data indicating a time when the manufacturing process, MP, of the product variant, PV, of the same product family, PF, was executed.
7. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 6 wherein the process execution data PED, of the manufacturing operation model, MOpM, comprise continuous and/or discrete variables.
8. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 7 wherein the manufacturing operation MO specific contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, and process execution data, PED, are provided (S2) by a manufacturing execution system, MES, of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 8 wherein the measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, provided by the manufacturing execution system, MES, of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, are derived from measurement data provided by sensors of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
10. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 6 to 9 wherein the sequence and structure of the manufacturing operations, MO, forming part of the process context data, PCD, are provided by a product lifecycle management, PLM, system of the complex manufacturing system, MSYS.
11. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 10 wherein learning (S3) of the model parameters, p, of the manufacturing operation models, MOpM, comprises an iterative adaption of the model parameters, p.
12. The computer-implemented method according to claim 11 wherein the model parameters, p, are adapted iteratively by performing a regression procedure.
13. The computer-implemented method according to claim 11 wherein the model parameters, p, of the manufacturing operation models, MOpM, are adapted iteratively by using a neural network, NN, decision trees or a support vector machine, SVM.
14. The computer-implemented method according to claim 13 wherein the neural network, NN, comprises a feedforward neural network or a recurrent neural network.
15. The computer-implemented method according to any of the preceding claims 1 to 14 wherein the manufacturing process, MP, comprises one or more manufacturing process cycles providing data combined to adapt the model parameters, p, of the manufacturing operation model, MOpM, or used to adapt the model parameters, p, of the manufacturing operation model, MOpM, for each manufacturing process cycle.
16. A prediction apparatus adapted to provide predictions of key performance indicators, of product variants, PV, of a product family, PF, to be produced by a complex manufacturing system, MSYS, providing measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, process context data, PCD, and process execution data, PED, of manufacturing operations, MO, collected during manufacturing processes, MP, executed to manufacture product variants, PVs, of said product family, PF,
said prediction apparatus comprising a processing unit, PU, adapted to process the measured contributions to key performance indicators, KPI, the process context data, PCD, and the process execution data, PED, to learn automatically model parameters, p, of manufacturing operation models, MOpM, of manufacturing operation types, MOT, used to manufacture a product variant, PV, of said product family, PF, to update the manufacturing operation models, MOpM, and further adapted to evaluate an updated production efficiency model, PEM, combining updated manufacturing models, MM, including the updated manufacturing operation models, MOpM', to calculate predictions of key performance indicators, of a product variant, PV, to be manufactured by said complex manufacturing system, MSYS, depending on a product configuration of said product variant, PV.
17. The prediction apparatus according to claim 16 wherein the key performance indicators, predicted for different product variants, PV, of the same product family, PF, are evaluated by said processing unit, PU, to select a product variant, PV, manufactured by the complex manufacturing system, MSYS, and/or a production variant, PDV.
</claims>
</document>
