<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOVARTIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANNO, RONAN
LAY, BRUNO
WEISSGERBER, GEORGES
QUELLEC, GWENOLÉ
MEYERS-NORMAND, GUILLAUME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65991735
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
COMPUTERIZED SYSTEMS FOR PREDICTION OF GEOGRAPHIC ATROPHY PROGRESSION USING DEEP LEARNING APPLIED TO CLINICAL IMAGING
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device is disclosed. The device receives a plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the retinal images. The device can train a first machine learning model ('model') based on a first group the retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first group and a second model based on a second group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second group. The electronic device can generate a first prediction based on the first subset of a third group of retinal images and a second prediction based on the second subset of the third group. After training the first model and the second model, the device can train a third model to predict a geographic atrophy progression in an eye of a patient based on the first and second predictions, the first and second subsets, and patient data corresponding to the first and second subset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for training a predictive model for geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the method comprising:
at a computing system including at least a first device that includes at least one processor and memory: receiving a plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the plurality of retinal images; training a first machine learning model based on a first group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first group, wherein the first group includes a first type of retinal image; training a second machine learning model based on a second group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second group, wherein the second group includes a second type of retinal image that is different from the first type of retinal image; generating, using the trained first machine learning model, a first prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a first subset of a third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first subset; generating, using the trained second machine learning models, a second prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a second subset of the third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second subset; and after training the first machine learning model and the second machine learning model, training a third machine learning model to predict a geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient based on the first prediction, the second prediction, the first subset, the second subset and patient data corresponding to the first subset and second subset.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising:
prior to training the first machine learning model or the second machine learning model: selecting a first retinal image in the plurality of retinal images, the first retinal image including a width and a height; in accordance with a determination that the height of the retinal image is less than the width of the retinal image: removing a plurality of edges from the first retinal image; after removing the plurality of edges from the first retinal image, padding the first retinal image; and after padding the first retinal image, resizing the first retinal image to a predetermined image size; and in accordance with a determination the height of the first retinal image is not less than the width of the first retinal image: removing a portion of the first retinal image; and resizing the first retinal image to the predetermined image size.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first type of retinal image is a fundus autofluorescence image and the second type of retinal image is an infrared image.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first and second group include different numbers of retinal images; and wherein the first and second subsets include a same number of retinal images.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first and second group include more images than the third group of retinal images.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first subset includes first retinal images and the second subset includes second retinal images, wherein the first retinal image and second retinal image share patient data from a patient visit.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the particular visit corresponds to a closest patient visit for the particular patient that occurred within a timeframe.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning model and the second machine learning model are trained in parallel.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning model includes a first plurality of machine learning models, and wherein the first plurality of machine learning models are trained in parallel.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning model is a fusion of a second plurality of machine learning models.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein training the third machine learning model to predict a geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient comprises: using a multilayer perceptron algorithm to train the third machine learning model to predict a geographic atrophy progression.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: in accordance with a determination that criteria are met, wherein the criteria includes a criterion that is satisfied when a time of capturing the fourth retinal image is known, an actual lesion size for an eye of a patient associated with the fourth patient is available, and the patient associated with the fourth retinal image has a retinal image for the at least one eye of the patient that exists within a second timeframe, including the fourth retinal image in the first or second group of retinal images; and in accordance with a determination that the criteria are not met, forging to include the fourth retinal image in the first or second group of retinal images.
13. An electronic device for training a predictive model for geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the electronic device comprising: at least one processor; and memory storing one or more programs configured to be executed by the at least one processor, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving a plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the plurality of retinal images; training a first machine learning model based on a first group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first group, wherein the first group includes a first type of retinal image training a second machine learning model based on a second group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second group, wherein the second group includes a second type of retinal image that is different from the first type of retinal image; generating, using the trained first machine learning model, a first prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a first subset of a third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first subset; generating, using the trained second machine learning models, a second prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a second subset of the third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second subset; and after training the first machine learning model and the second machine learning model, training a third machine learning model to predict a geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient based on the first prediction, the second prediction, the first subset, the second subset and patient data corresponding to the first subset and second subset.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured to be executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with at least one processor and memory, the one or more programs including instructions for training a predictive model for geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the instructions including: receiving a plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the plurality of retinal images; training a first machine learning model based on a first group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first group, wherein the first group includes a first type of retinal image training a second machine learning model based on a second group of the plurality of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second group, wherein the second group includes a second type of retinal image that is different from the first type of retinal image; generating, using the trained first machine learning model, a first prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a first subset of a third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the first subset; generating, using the trained second machine learning models, a second prediction of geographic atrophy progression based on a second subset of the third group of retinal images and patient data corresponding to the second subset; and after training the first machine learning model and the second machine learning model, training a third machine learning model to predict a geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient based on the first prediction, the second prediction, the first subset, the second subset and patient data corresponding to the first subset and second subset.
15. A computer-implemented method for controlling a user interface in accordance with a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the method comprising:
at a computing system including at least a first device that includes at least one processor and memory: receiving a retinal image and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the retinal image and patient data: receiving a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient, wherein the prediction is determined by an algorithm based on the retinal images and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient:
outputting a notification based on the prediction of the geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein receiving the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient includes:
determining, using a machine learning model, the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient based on the retinal image and the age of the patient.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
outputting a first heat activation map.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a threshold value; and in response to receiving the threshold value, replacing the output of the heat activation map with a second heat activation map based on the threshold value.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification includes an indication of the rate of geographic atrophy progression.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
before receiving the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient, receiving a prediction timeframe, wherein the prediction is determined further based on the prediction timeframe.
21. An electronic device for controlling a user interface in accordance with a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the electronic device comprising: at least one processor; and memory storing one or more programs configured to be executed by the at least one processor, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving a retinal image and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the retinal image and patient data: receiving a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient, wherein the prediction is determined by an algorithm based on the retinal images and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient:
outputting a notification based on the prediction of the geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient.
22. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured to be executed by one or more processors of an electronic device with at least one processor and memory, the one or more programs including instructions for controlling a user interface in accordance with a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of a patient, the instructions including: receiving a retinal image and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the retinal image and patient data: receiving a prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient, wherein the prediction is determined by an algorithm based on the retinal images and patient data; and subsequent to receiving the prediction of geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient:
outputting a notification based on the prediction of the geographic atrophy progression in at least one eye of the patient.
</claims>
</document>
