<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KOREA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOH, Nak Ju
JANG, Bum Chul
CHOI, Hyung A
LIM, Ga Hyeon
KIM, Dong Woo
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73781019
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR ESTIMATING USER'S POSE BY USING THREE-DIMENSIONAL VIRTUAL SPACE MODEL
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a method and an apparatus for estimating a user pose using a three-dimensional virtual space model. The method of estimating a user pose including the position and orientation information of a user for a three-dimensional space includes a step of receiving user information including an image acquired in a three-dimensional space, a step of confirming a three-dimensional virtual space model constructed based on spatial information including depth information and image information for the three-dimensional space, a step of generating corresponding information corresponding to the user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model, a step of calculating similarity between the corresponding information and the user information, and a step of estimating a user pose based on the similarity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of estimating a user pose for a three-dimensional space, comprising: a step of acquiring spatial information comprising depth information and image information for a three-dimensional space using a depth measurement device and an image acquisition device; a step of configuring depth-image associated information based on the spatial information and constructing a three-dimensional virtual space model corresponding to the three-dimensional space based on the depth-image associated information; a step of receiving user information, comprising an image acquired by a user device, in the three-dimensional space; a step of generating corresponding information corresponding to the user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model; a step of calculating a similarity between the corresponding information and the user information; and a step of estimating a user pose based on the similarity.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein, the step of constructing the three-dimensional virtual space model, a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space and a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space are distinguished from each other in the image information for the three-dimensional space, and the three-dimensional virtual space model is constructed using the background area.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of generating the corresponding information comprises: a step of distinguishing a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space in an image comprised in the user information; a step of processing the user information using the background area of the image comprised in the user information; and a step of generating corresponding information corresponding to the processed user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of regenerating the corresponding information to increase the similarity; and a step of recalculating the similarity based on the regenerated corresponding information.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of extracting comparison target areas for comparing the user information and the corresponding information; a step of determining a common area between the comparison target area extracted from the user information and the comparison target area extracted from the corresponding information; and a step of regenerating the user information and the corresponding information respectively based on the common area.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of acquiring additional user information about a periphery of the user device; and a step of calculating similarity based on the user information and the additional user information.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein, in the step of estimating the user pose, when user additional information that is additional information used to estimate the user pose is acquired through the user device, the user pose is estimated using the user additional information along with the user information or the additional user information.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein, in the step of acquiring the additional user information, guide information for acquiring the additional user information based on the three-dimensional virtual space model is transmitted to the user device.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the guide information comprises a user information acquisition pose for a predetermined feature in the three-dimensional virtual space model, and the step of acquiring the additional user information is repeatedly performed to increase the similarity.
10. A method of estimating a user pose for a three-dimensional space, wherein the method is a method of estimating a user pose comprising position and orientation information of a user fora three-dimensional space, and the method comprises: a step of receiving user information comprising an image acquired in the three-dimensional space; a step of confirming a three-dimensional virtual space model constructed based on spatial information comprising depth information and image information for the three-dimensional space; a step of generating corresponding information corresponding to the user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model; a step of calculating similarity between the corresponding information and the user information; and a step of estimating a user pose based on the similarity.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the three-dimensional virtual space model is constructed by distinguishing, in image information for the three-dimensional space, a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space and by using the background area.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of generating the corresponding information comprises: a step of distinguishing a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space in an image comprised in the user information; a step of processing the user information using the background area of the image comprised in the user information; and a step of generating corresponding information corresponding to the processed user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of regenerating the corresponding information to increase the similarity; and a step of recalculating the similarity based on the regenerated corresponding information.
14. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of extracting comparison target areas for comparing the user information and the corresponding information; a step of determining a common area between the comparison target area extracted from the user information and the comparison target area extracted from the corresponding information; and a step of regenerating the user information and the corresponding information respectively based on the common area.
15. The method according to claim 10, wherein the step of calculating the similarity comprises: a step of acquiring additional user information about a periphery of the user device; and a step of calculating similarity based on the user information and the additional user information.
16. The method according to claim 15, wherein, in the step of estimating the user pose, when user additional information that is additional information used to estimate the user pose is acquired through the user device, the user pose is estimated using the user additional information along with the user information or the additional user information.
17. The method according to claim 15, wherein, in the step of acquiring the additional user information, guide information for acquiring the additional user information based on the three-dimensional virtual space model is transmitted to the user device.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the guide information comprises a user information acquisition pose for a predetermined feature in the three-dimensional virtual space model, and the step of acquiring the additional user information is repeatedly performed to increase the similarity.
19. An apparatus for estimating a user pose for a three-dimensional space, comprising: a spatial information acquirer for acquiring spatial information comprising depth information and image information for a three-dimensional space; a virtual space model generator for configuring depth-image associated information based on the spatial information and generating a three-dimensional virtual space model corresponding to the three-dimensional space based on the depth-image associated information; a user information receiver for receiving user information comprising an image acquired by a user device in the three-dimensional space; and a controller comprising at least one processor configured to generate corresponding information corresponding to the user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model, calculate similarity between the corresponding information and the user information, and estimate the user pose based on the similarity.
20. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the space model generator distinguishes a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space in the image information for the three-dimensional space, and constructs the three-dimensional virtual space model using the background area.
21. The apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the controller distinguishes, in an image comprised in the user information, a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space, processes the user information using the background area of the image comprised in the user information, and generates corresponding information corresponding to the processed user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model.
22. An apparatus for estimating a user pose for a three-dimensional space, wherein the apparatus is an apparatus for estimating a user pose comprising position and orientation information of a user for a three-dimensional space, and the apparatus comprises a virtual space model provider for providing a three-dimensional virtual space model constructed based on spatial information comprising depth information and image information for the three-dimensional space;
a user information receiver for receiving user information comprising an image acquired by a user device in the three-dimensional space; and
a controller comprising at least one processor configured to generate corresponding information corresponding to the user information in the three-dimensional virtual space model, calculate similarity between the corresponding information and the user information, and estimate the user pose based on the similarity.
23. The apparatus according to claim 22, wherein the three-dimensional virtual space model is constructed by distinguishing, in image information for the three-dimensional space, a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space and by using the background area.
24. An apparatus for estimating a user pose for a three-dimensional space, comprising: a user information generator for generating user information comprising an image for a three-dimensional space; a communicator for transmitting the user information to a user pose estimation server and receiving information about a user pose estimated in a three-dimensional virtual space model from the server; and a controller comprising at least one processor configured to control operation of the user information generator and the communicator and transmit the information about the user pose to an application or drive system that is currently being driven.
25. The apparatus according to claim 24, wherein the three-dimensional virtual space model is generated based on spatial information comprising depth information and image information for the three-dimensional space, and is constructed by distinguishing, in image information for the three-dimensional space, a background area related to a structure of the three-dimensional space from a non-background area corresponding to an object placed in the three-dimensional space and by using the background area.
</claims>
</document>
