<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B25/04,H04M1/00,H04M9/00,H04M9/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIPHONE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SUMIDA Tetsuya
YAMAKAWA Seiya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67619249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONFIGURATION METHOD OF WI-FI DOORBELL, DOORBELL, HOUSING COMPLEX COMMUNICATION SYSTEM, AND CLIMATE INFORMATION PROVIDING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a setting method of a Wi-Fi doorbell (2), in which a Wi-Fi doorbell (2) comprising a camera capable of reading a two-dimensional code and a mobile communication terminal (4) comprising a display unit (6) capable of displaying the two-dimensional code are used. The setting method comprises steps of causing the display unit (6) to display a two-dimensional code in which password information for enabling the Wi-Fi doorbell (2) to connect to a network (5) via a Wi-Fi router (20) is embedded; reading the two-dimensional code by the camera (9) of the Wi-Fi doorbell (2); and setting the Wi-Fi doorbell (2) to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell (2) can perform communication with a remotely disposed server (3) via the Wi-Fi router (20), based on the read two-dimensional code.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A setting method of a Wi-Fi doorbell, in which a Wi-Fi doorbell comprising a camera capable of reading a two-dimensional code and a mobile communication terminal comprising a display unit capable of displaying the two-dimensional code are used, the setting method comprising steps of: causing the display unit to display a two-dimensional code in which password information for enabling the Wi-Fi doorbell to connect to a network via a Wi-Fi router is embedded; reading the two-dimensional code by the camera of the Wi-Fi doorbell; and setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can perform communication with a remotely disposed server via the Wi-Fi router, based on the read two-dimensional code.
2. The method according to Claim 1,
wherein position information upon initial installation of the Wi-Fi doorbell is embedded in the two-dimensional code.
3. The method according to Claim 1 or 2,
wherein the Wi-Fi doorbell can store a specific person in the server by reading a person image by the camera of the Wi-Fi doorbell upon initial setting, and
wherein the Wi-Fi doorbell can determine whether or not to call, based on the person image stored in the server.
4. A setting method of a Wi-Fi doorbell, in which a Wi-Fi doorbell comprising a voice recognition unit is used, the setting method comprising steps of: connecting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a Wi-Fi router, based on a voice password recognized by the voice recognition unit, the voice password being read so that the Wi-Fi doorbell can connect to a network via the Wi-Fi router; and setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can perform communication with a remotely disposed server via the Wi-Fi router.
5. A setting method of a Wi-Fi doorbell, in which a Wi-Fi doorbell comprising a light beam detection unit is used, the setting method comprising steps of: transmitting, to the Wi-Fi doorbell, password information for enabling the Wi-Fi doorbell to connect to a network via a Wi-Fi router, by optical communication; setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can connect to the network via the Wi-Fi router, based on the password information; and setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can perform communication with a remotely disposed server via the Wi-Fi router.
6. A setting method of a Wi-Fi doorbell, in which a Wi-Fi doorbell comprising an ultrasonic wave detection unit is used, the setting method comprising steps of: transmitting, to the Wi-Fi doorbell, password information for enabling the Wi-Fi doorbell to connect to a network via a Wi-Fi router, by ultrasonic communication; setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can connect to the network via the Wi-Fi router, based on the password information; and setting the Wi-Fi doorbell to a state where the Wi-Fi doorbell can perform communication with a remotely disposed server via the Wi-Fi router.
7. A doorbell comprising: a camera configured to capture a visitor; a calling button that is pressed by the visitor so as to call a resident; a person detection sensor for detecting approach of the visitor; a voice recognition unit for recognizing a voice of the visitor; a storage unit for registering data for comparison; and an artificial intelligence unit capable of issuing a calling notification to a terminal of the resident, wherein when the calling button is pressed by the visitor or when the visitor is detected by the person detection sensor, the artificial intelligence unit compares an image captured by the camera or a voice of the visitor recognized by the voice recognition unit with the data registered in the storage unit, and wherein when the data and the image or the voice are associated with each other, a calling is notified to the terminal of the resident.
8. The doorbell according to Claim 7,
wherein the artificial intelligence unit can generate data for appropriately responding to the voice recognized by the voice recognition unit.
9. The doorbell according to Claim 7 or 8,
wherein when the data and the image or the voice are associated with each other as a result of the comparison of the image captured by the camera or the voice of the visitor recognized by the voice recognition unit with the data registered in the storage unit, the artificial intelligence unit notifies the terminal of the resident that the data is not associated with the image or the voice.
10. A doorbell comprising: a camera configured to capture a visitor; a calling button that is pressed by the visitor so as to call a resident; a video processing unit configured to analyze an image captured by the camera; a condition storage unit for storing a condition under which a notification to a terminal of the resident is not performed; a determination unit configured to determine whether or not to call the resident; and a calling notification unit configured to notify a calling to the resident, wherein the video processing unit analyzes the image captured by the camera when the calling button is pressed by the visitor, wherein the determination unit is configured to calculate a suspicious person frequency, based on an analysis result by the video processing unit, and to compare the suspicious person frequency and the condition stored in the condition storage unit, thereby determining whether or not to call the resident, and wherein when the determination unit determines not to call the resident, the calling notification unit does not notify the calling to the resident.
11. The doorbell according to Claim 10, further comprising a saving unit configured to save the image captured by the camera and the suspicious person frequency calculated by the determination unit,
wherein the determination unit is further configured to compare the analysis result by the video processing unit and the image and suspicious person frequency saved in the saving unit, thereby determining whether or not to call the resident.
12. The doorbell according to Claim 10,
wherein the condition comprises information about a visitor for whom the calling is permitted or a visitor for whom the calling is not permitted, the information being transmitted from the terminal of the resident, and
wherein the video processing unit is configured to analyze the image captured by the camera, based on the condition stored in the condition storage unit.
13. The doorbell according to one of Claims 10 to 12,
wherein the condition comprises information about an action tendency of a suspicious person, and
wherein the video processing unit is configured to analyze a motion of the visitor detected by the camera, based on the action tendency of the suspicious person stored in the condition storage unit.
14. A doorbell comprising: a person detection sensor configured to detect a visitor; a motion sensor configured to detect a motion of the visitor detected by the person detection sensor; a determination unit configured to determine whether a visitor is approaching the motion sensor, based on the motion of the visitor detected by the motion sensor; and a calling notification unit configured to notify a calling to a terminal of a resident, wherein when the determination unit determines that the visitor is approaching the motion sensor, based on a motion of the visitor detected by the motion sensor, the calling notification unit notifies a calling to the terminal of the resident.
15. The doorbell according to Claim 14, further comprising a voice recognition unit configured to recognize a voice of the visitor,
wherein when the voice recognition unit recognizes the voice of the visitor who calls the resident, a calling can be notified to the terminal of the resident.
16. The doorbell according to Claim 14, further comprising a contact recognition unit configured to recognize a knock of the visitor,
wherein when the contact recognition unit recognizes the knock, the calling notification unit can notify a calling to the terminal of the resident.
17. The doorbell according to Claim 14, further comprising a camera configured to capture the visitor,
wherein the camera can read a two-dimensional code for calling the resident, and
wherein when the camera reads the two-dimensional code, the calling notification unit can notify a calling to the terminal of the resident.
18. The doorbell according to one of Claims 7 to 17,
wherein the doorbell can connect to a network via a Wi-Fi router, perform communication with a mobile communication terminal associated with the resident via the network, and notify a calling to the mobile communication terminal.
19. A doorbell comprising: a main body part; an operation unit attached to the main body part and enabling a visitor to call a resident; at least two cameras attached to the main body part and capable of capturing a surrounding image; and a control unit connected to the operation unit and the at least two cameras, and capable of transmitting the image captured by the at least two cameras to an external device, wherein at least a part of the operation unit is disposed on a line orthogonal to a virtual straight line connecting the at least two cameras.
20. The doorbell according to Claim 19,
wherein the at least two cameras comprise a first camera and a second camera,
wherein the first camera is disposed on a left side of the operation unit, and the second camera is disposed on a right side of the operation unit, and
wherein a capturing range of the first camera and a capturing range of the second camera are configured to overlap at least partially.
21. The doorbell according to Claim 19 or 20,
wherein the main body part is configured to have an L-shape, as seen from above.
22. The doorbell according to one of Claims 19 to 21,
wherein the external device comprises any one of an information terminal associated with the resident and a living room master unit provided in a living room of a residence in which the doorbell is installed.
23. A housing complex communication system comprising: a first calling device installed in a first facility in a housing complex and capable of calling a user in the first facility; a first control unit capable of performing communication with the first calling device and configured to transmit a first calling signal to the first calling device; a second calling device installed in a second facility in the housing complex and capable of calling a user in the second facility; and a second control unit capable of performing communication with the second calling device and configured to transmit a second calling signal to the second calling device, wherein the first calling signal and the second calling signal can be communicated between the first control unit and the second control unit.
24. The housing complex communication system according to Claim 23,
wherein the first calling signal and the second calling signal can be communicated between the first control unit and the second control unit by executing a single application in at least one of the first control unit and the second control unit.
25. The housing complex communication system according to Claim 23 or 24,
wherein the first calling device comprises at least one of a living room master unit installed in a living room of each of residences in the housing complex, a living room entrance slave unit installed in an entrance of each of the residences, a group entrance device installed in a group entrance of the housing complex, and a portable information terminal possessed by a user associated with each of the residences.
26. The housing complex communication system according to one of Claims 23 to 25,
wherein the second calling device comprises at least one of a calling device installed in a communal facility in the housing complex, a management office master unit installed in a management office in the housing complex, and a remote control device disposed remotely from the housing complex.
27. A housing complex communication system comprising: a calling device associated with at least one of each residence and a group entrance in a housing complex; a doorbell associated with a communal facility in the housing complex; and a control unit configured to perform communication with the calling device and the doorbell, wherein the doorbell is configured to perform communication with the control unit by a wireless network communication means.
28. The housing complex communication system according to Claim 27,
wherein the communal facility comprises at least one of a management office and a security pole installed in the housing complex.
29. The housing complex communication system according to Claim 27 or 28,
wherein the calling device comprises a portable information terminal associated with a resident of each residence.
30. The housing complex communication system according to one of Claims 27 to 29, further comprising a remote control device disposed remotely from the housing complex and configured to perform communication with the control unit by a wireless communication network means.
31. A meteorological information providing system comprising: a doorbell having a near field communication function; a meteorological information measuring device having a near field communication function; a meteorological information analysis device; and a server, wherein the doorbell can perform communication with the meteorological information measuring device via near field communication, wherein the server can perform communication with the doorbell and the meteorological information analysis device via a network, and save position information of the doorbell, wherein the doorbell is configured to acquire meteorological information acquired by the meteorological information measuring device, via the near field communication, and to transmit the meteorological information to the server via the network, and wherein the meteorological information analysis device is configured to analyze the meteorological information, based on the meteorological information transmitted to the server and the position information, and to transmit analysis data to the server.
32. The meteorological information providing system according to Claim 31, further comprising a mobile communication terminal,
wherein the server can perform communication with the mobile communication terminal via the network, and
wherein the meteorological information and the analysis data can be browsed on the mobile communication terminal.
33. The meteorological information providing system according to Claim 31 or 32,
wherein the meteorological information is one or more of a temperature, a humidity, a rainfall, an atmospheric pressure, a wind speed, a wind direction, an illuminance, a noise, an ultraviolet ray amount, a carbon dioxide concentration, and a pollen amount.
34. The meteorological information providing system according to one of Claims 31 to 33,
wherein the analysis data is one or more of a weather forecast, a weather history, a heat stroke alert, a pollen alert, a sunburn alert, hurricane route information, a lightning alert and a hail alert.
</claims>
</document>
