<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01C5/06,A01C7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHN DEERE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Puhalla, Jeffery
Davis, Travid
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70470912
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SEEDING MACHINE INCLUDING VARIABLE FORCE TRENCH CLOSER
</title>

<abstract>
An agricultural seeding machine (10) includes a trench closer assembly (40) and a sensing device (50) configured to sense an aspect of the soil without contacting the soil and to output a sensed signal corresponding to the aspect of the soil. A processing device (70) processes the sensed signal to generate a processed sensed signal, and compares a characteristic of the processed sensed signal to a stored signal characteristic representative of a soil condition. A trench closure quality metric is determined and provided via a user interface. Additionally, in response to and based upon the comparison, the processing device may automatically adjust the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member (41). In this manner, the seeding machine utilizes a feedback signal to determine how well a trench is closed and can adjust the performance of the trench closer assembly in accordance with that feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An agricultural seeding machine comprising: a trench closer assembly comprising a soil contacting member, the trench closer assembly configured to vary a force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member; a sensing device configured to: sense at least one aspect of the soil without contacting the soil; and output a sensed signal corresponding to the at least one aspect of the soil; a processing device coupled to the sensing device, the processing device configured to: receive the sensed signal from the sensing device; process the sensed signal to generate a processed sensed signal; and compare a characteristic of the processed sensed signal to at least one stored signal characteristic representative of at least one soil condition to determine a metric representative of a quality of trench closing by the trench closer assembly; and a user interface coupled to the processing device and configured to output an indication of the metric.
2. The agricultural seeding machine of claim 1, wherein: the characteristic of the processed sensed signal comprises a strength of the processed sensed signal at a preset height over the trench; and the stored signal characteristic representative of at least one soil condition comprises an expected signal strength at the preset height over the trench corresponding to soil covering the trench at the preset height.
3. The agricultural seeding machine of claim 1 or 2, wherein the processing device is coupled to the trench closer assembly, and wherein the processing device is further configured to:
automatically adjust the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly responsive to the comparison.
4. The agricultural seeding machine of claim 3, wherein: the trench closer assembly further comprises at least one actuator configured to vary the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member; and the processing device is configured to control the actuator to adjust the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly.
5. The agricultural seeding machine of claim 3 or 4, wherein the processing device is configured to: compare the characteristic of the processed sensed signal to a stored signal characteristic representative of a closed trench; determine that the processed sensed signal indicates that the trench is not closed fully; and responsively increase the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly.
6. The agricultural seeding machine of claim 3, 4 or 5, further comprising: a plurality of planter rows, wherein each of the plurality of planter rows comprises a sensing device and a trench closer assembly comprising a soil contacting member; and wherein the processing device adjusts the force applied to the soil by each soil contacting member in each of the plurality of planter rows individually.
7. The agricultural seeding machine of any preceding claim, wherein the sensing device is positioned behind the trench closer assembly within a planting row and is configured to sense the at least one aspect of the soil at a location where the trench closer assembly has already closed the trench.
8. The agricultural seeding machine of any preceding claim, wherein: the sensing device comprises a radar system comprising a radar transmitter and a radar receiver; the sensed signal comprises radar readings of the soil; the processing device is further configured to perform an envelope function on the radar readings to generate the processed sensed signal; and the at least one stored signal characteristic comprises a reference envelope characteristic corresponding to at least one of an open trench or a closed trench.
9. The agricultural seeding machine of any preceding claim, further comprising: a secondary closer member configured to trail behind the trench closer assembly to provide a second closing action on the trench when engaged; wherein the processing device is electrically coupled to the secondary closer member, and wherein the processing device is further configured to:
automatically engage the secondary closer member to contact the soil responsive to the comparison.
10. A method of closing a trench by a trench closer assembly of a seeding machine, the method comprising: closing the trench with the trench closer assembly of the seeding machine, the trench closer assembly comprising a soil contacting member; sensing, with a sensing device mounted to the seeding machine, at least one aspect of soil within and surrounding a planting trench without contacting the soil; outputting, by the sensing device, a sensed signal corresponding to the at least one aspect of the soil; receiving, by a processing device coupled to the sensing device, the sensed signal from the sensing device; processing, by the processing device, the sensed signal to generate a processed sensed signal; comparing, by the processing device, a characteristic of the processed sensed signal to at least one stored signal characteristics representative of at least one soil condition to determine a metric representative of a quality of trench closing by the trench closer assembly; and outputting to a user interface coupled to the processing device, an indication of the metric.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the sensed signal comprises radar readings of the soil;
wherein processing the sensed signal further comprises performing, by the processing device, an envelope function on the radar readings to generate the processed sensed signal; and
wherein the comparing further comprises comparing, by the processing device, a strength of the processed sensed signal at a preset height over the trench to an expected signal strength at the preset height over the trench corresponding to soil covering the trench at the preset height.
12. The method of claim 10 or 11, further comprising:
adjusting automatically, by the processing device, a force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly responsive to the comparison.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the trench closer assembly further comprises at least one actuator configured to vary the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member; and
wherein the method further comprises controlling the actuator, by the processing device, to adjust the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly.
14. The method of claim 12 or 13, further comprising: comparing, by the processing device, the characteristic of the processed sensed signal to a stored signal characteristic representative of a closed trench; determining, by the processing device, that the characteristic of the processed sensed signal indicates that the trench is not closed fully; and responsively increasing, by the processing device, the force applied to the soil by the soil contacting member of the trench closer assembly.
15. The method of claim 10, 11, 12, 13 or 14, further comprising:
automatically engaging, by the processing device, a secondary closer member to contact the soil responsive to the comparison, the secondary closer member configured to trail behind the trench closer assembly to provide a second closing action on the trench when engaged.
</claims>
</document>
