<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/22,H04M1/67,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, TAESU
YUN, SUNGRACK
KIM, SUNGWOONG
KIM, Heeman
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57321405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GENERATION OF NOTIFICATIONS BASED ON CONTEXT DATA IN RESPONSE TO SPEECH PHRASE FROM USER
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating a notification by an electronic device to alert a user of the electronic device is disclosed. In this method, a speech phrase may be received. Then, the received speech phrase may be recognized, by a processor, as a command to generate the notification. In addition, one or more context data of the electronic device may be detected by at least one sensor. It may be determined whether the notification is to be generated at least based on the context data. The notification may be generated, by the processor, based on the context data and the command to generate the notification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a notification by an electronic device, the method comprising: receiving (410) a speech phrase; recognizing (420), by a processor, the speech phrase as a command to generate the notification; upon recognizing the speech phrase, detecting (430) context data using at least one sensor of the electronic device; determining a probability value based on the detected context data; determining (440), by the processor, whether to generate the notification based on a comparison between the probability value and a threshold value; in response to having determined to generate the notification based on the comparison between the probability value and the threshold value, generating (450), by the processor, the notification based on the command; and in response to having determined not to generate the notification based on the comparison between the probability value and the threshold value, not generating (450), by the processor, the notification based on the command.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determined probability value and the threshold value are numbers between 0 and 1; wherein the probability value indicates whether the electronic device is in a context in which the notification is to be generated; and wherein the speech phrase comprises one or more keywords.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the speech phrase comprises at least a first speech phrase and a second speech phrase, wherein each of the first speech phrase and second speech phrase comprises a keyword or phrase, and wherein the speech phrase is recognized based on reception times of the first speech phrase and second speech phrase.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the speech phrase is recognized as a command to generate the notification in response to determining that the first speech phrase and the second speech phrase are received within a predetermined time period, and wherein the speech phrase is not recognized as a command to generate the notification in response to determining that the first speech phrase and the second speech phrase are not received within a predetermined time period.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein detecting the context data is based on at least one among a user input, movement of the electronic device, timing information, location information of the electronic device, ambient light value, and an input sound; wherein generating the notification comprises determining whether the notification is to be generated at least based on the context data; wherein determining whether the notification is to be generated comprises deactivating a silent mode of the electronic device upon determining that the notification is to be generated; and wherein determining whether the notification is to be generated comprises at least one of: determining whether the timing information is within a predetermined time period during which the notification is not to be generated; or determining whether the location information of the electronic device corresponds to a predetermined location where the notification is not to be generated.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: locking the electronic device to prevent unauthorized access to the electronic device in response to determining that the notification is to be generated; and unlocking the electronic device in response to receiving a user input.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein detecting context data using at least one sensor of the electronic device comprising capturing an image of a user using an image sensor, wherein the image is preferably an image of a face of a user, eyes of a user, lips of a user, or a hand of a user.
8. The method of claim 6 or claim 7, wherein detecting the context data comprises determining whether the speech phrase is spoken in a direction other than a direction toward the electronic device.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein detecting the context data comprises: determining a direction of departure of the speech phrase from a user; and determining that the direction of departure is toward the electronic device when the direction of departure is within a predetermined angle or range from the a line between the electronic device and the user.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein detecting the context data comprises: determining a direction of departure of the speech phrase from a user; determining a reference direction between the user and the electronic device; determining an angle between the determined direction of departure and the determined reference direction; compare the determined angle with a predetermined angle within which a speech phrase may be considered to be spoken toward the device; and determine, based on the comparison, whether the speech phrase is spoken in a direction other than a direction toward the electronic device.
11. The method of any of claims 7 to 10, wherein generating the notification comprises generating, by an output unit, at least one of the following indicative of the notification: audible sound, vibration, and visible light.
12. An electronic device for generating a notification, the electronic device comprising: a sound sensor configured to receive a speech phrase; a speech recognition unit configured to recognise the speech phrase as a command to generate the notification; a sensor unit, comprising at least one sensor, configured to detect context data using at least one sensor upon recognising the speech phrase; a processor configured to: determine a probability value based on the detected context data; and determine whether to generate the notification based on a comparison between the probability value and a threshold value; and an output unit configured to: generate the notification based on the command in response to determining to generate the notification based on the comparison between the probability value and the threshold value; and not generate the notification based on the command in response to determining not to generate the notification based on the comparison between the probability value and the threshold value.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the sensor unit comprises a sound sensor configured to receive a first speech phrase and a second speech phrase as the speech phrase; wherein each of the first speech phrase and second speech phrase comprises a keyword or phrase, and wherein the speech recognition unit is configured to recognise the speech phrase based on reception times of the first speech phrase and second speech phrase.
14. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the speech recognition unit is further configured to recognise the speech phrase as a command to generate the notification in response to determining that the first speech phrase and the second speech phrase are received within a predetermined time period, wherein the sensor unit comprises at least one of an input sensor, movement sensor, clock unit, location sensor, image sensor and a sound sensor.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions executable to cause at least one processor of an electronic device to perform operations of any of claims 1 to 11.
</claims>
</document>
