<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W76/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, Gong
SUN, Xibo
LIU, Chaoping
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67588778
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RADIO RESOURCE CONTROL (RRC) STATE CONVERSION METHOD AND APPARATUS
</title>

<abstract>
This application provides a method and an apparatus for switching an RRC state. The method includes: sending, by a communications apparatus, indication information to a network device, where the indication information is used to indicate that the communications apparatus requests to enter an RRC inactive state; after completing a registration process of an RRC connected state, receiving, by the communications apparatus, an RRC connection release message that is sent by the network device based on the indication information, where the RRC connection release message is used to indicate the communications apparatus to enter the RRC inactive state; and entering, by the communications apparatus, the RRC inactive state from the RRC connected state based on the RRC connection release message. In this application, a terminal-side communications apparatus can autonomously request to enter an RRC inactive state, so that it can be ensured to a relatively large extent that the terminal-side communications apparatus is in the RRC inactive state when the terminal-side communications apparatus does not send data. In this way, energy consumption of the terminal-side communications apparatus can be effectively reduced, and network resource consumption can also be reduced.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for switching a radio resource control RRC state, comprising: sending, by a communications apparatus, indication information to a network device, wherein the indication information is used to indicate that the communications apparatus requests to enter an RRC inactive state; after completing a registration process of an RRC connected state, receiving, by the communications apparatus, an RRC connection release message that is sent by the network device based on the indication information, wherein the RRC connection release message is used to indicate the communications apparatus to enter the RRC inactive state; and entering, by the communications apparatus, the RRC inactive state from the RRC connected state based on the RRC connection release message.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sending, by a communications apparatus, indication information to a network device comprises:
before entering the RRC connected state, sending, by the communications apparatus, the indication information to the network device.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC connection request message.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sending, by a communications apparatus, indication information to a network device comprises:
after entering the RRC connected state and before completing the registration process of the RRC connected state, sending, by the communications apparatus, the indication information to the network device.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the indication information is carried in a registration request message of the RRC connected state.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sending, by a communications apparatus, indication information to a network device comprises:
after completing the registration process of the RRC connected state, sending, by the communications apparatus, the indication information to the network device.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC air interface message.
8. A method for switching a radio resource control RRC state, comprising: receiving, by a network device, indication information sent by a communications apparatus, wherein the indication information is used to indicate that the communications apparatus requests to enter an RRC inactive state; and after the communications apparatus completes a registration process of an RRC connected state, sending, by the network device, an RRC connection release message to the communications apparatus based on the indication information, wherein the RRC connection release message is used to indicate the communications apparatus to enter the RRC inactive state.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the method further comprises:
learning, by the network device by parsing the indication information, that the communications apparatus needs to enter the RRC inactive state.
10. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the receiving, by a network device, indication information sent by a communications apparatus comprises:
receiving, by the network device, the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus before the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC connection request message.
12. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the receiving, by a network device, indication information sent by a communications apparatus comprises:
receiving, by the network device, the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus after the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state and before the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the indication information is carried in a registration request message of the RRC connected state.
14. The method according to claim 8 or 9, wherein the receiving, by a network device, indication information sent by a communications apparatus comprises:
receiving, by the network device, the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus after the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC air interface message.
16. A communications apparatus for switching a radio resource control RRC state, comprising: a sending unit, configured to send indication information to a network device, wherein the indication information is used to indicate that the communications apparatus requests to enter an RRC inactive state; a receiving unit, configured to: after a registration process of an RRC connected state is completed, receive an RRC connection release message that is sent by the network device based on the indication information, wherein the RRC connection release message is used to indicate the communications apparatus to enter the RRC inactive state; and a processing unit, configured to enter the RRC inactive state from the RRC connected state based on the RRC connection release message.
17. The communications apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the sending unit is specifically configured to: before the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state, send the indication information to the network device.
18. The communications apparatus according to claim 17, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC connection request message.
19. The communications apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the sending unit is specifically configured to: after the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state and before the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state, send the indication information to the network device.
20. The communications apparatus according to claim 19, wherein the indication information is carried in a registration request message of the RRC connected state.
21. The communications apparatus according to claim 16, wherein the sending unit is specifically configured to: after the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state, send the indication information to the network device.
22. The communications apparatus according to claim 21, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC air interface message.
23. A network device for switching a radio resource control RRC state, comprising: a receiving unit, configured to receive indication information sent by a communications apparatus, wherein the indication information is used to indicate that the communications apparatus requests to enter an RRC inactive state; and a sending unit, configured to: after the communications apparatus completes a registration process of an RRC connected state, send an RRC connection release message to the communications apparatus based on the indication information, wherein the RRC connection release message is used to indicate the communications apparatus to enter the RRC inactive state.
24. The network device according to claim 23, wherein the network device further comprises:
a processing unit, configured to learn, by parsing the indication information received by the receiving unit, that the communications apparatus needs to enter the RRC inactive state.
25. The network device according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the receiving unit is specifically configured to receive the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus before the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state.
26. The network device according to claim 25, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC connection request message.
27. The network device according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the receiving unit is specifically configured to receive the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus after the communications apparatus enters the RRC connected state and before the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state.
28. The network device according to claim 27, wherein the indication information is carried in a registration request message of the RRC connected state.
29. The network device according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the receiving unit is specifically configured to receive the indication information that is sent by the communications apparatus after the communications apparatus completes the registration process of the RRC connected state.
30. The network device according to claim 29, wherein the indication information is carried in an RRC air interface message.
31. A communications apparatus, comprising a memory and a processor, wherein the memory is configured to store an instruction, the processor is configured to execute the instruction stored in the memory, and execution of the instruction stored in the memory enables the processor to perform the method for switching an RRC state according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
32. A network device, comprising a memory and a processor, wherein the memory is configured to store an instruction, the processor is configured to execute the instruction stored in the memory, and execution of the instruction stored in the memory enables the processor to perform the method for switching an RRC state according to any one of claims 8 to 15.
33. A computer storage medium, wherein the computer storage medium stores a computer program, and when the computer program is executed by a computer, the computer is enabled to perform the method for switching an RRC state according to any one of claims 1 to 7.
34. A computer storage medium, wherein the computer storage medium stores a computer program, and when the computer program is executed by a computer, the computer is enabled to perform the method for switching an RRC state according to any one of claims 8 to 15.
</claims>
</document>
