<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F7/499
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
YODA, KATSUHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70921852
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ARITHMETIC PROCESSING APPARATUS AND CONTROL PROGRAM
</title>

<abstract>
An arithmetic processing apparatus includes: a first determiner (14a) that determines, when a given learning model is repeatedly learned, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the learning in accordance with a degree of progress of the learning; and a second determiner (14b) that determines, based on the offset amount, the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data to be used in the learning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An arithmetic processing apparatus comprising: a first determination unit (14a,14c) that determines, when a training of a given learning model is repeatedly performed, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training in accordance with a degree of progress of the training; and a second determination unit (14b) that determines, based on the offset amount, the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data used in the training.
2. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an updating unit (14) that updates the decimal point position based on statistical information (22) related to a distribution of positions of most significant bits or positions of least significant bits of each of a plurality of the fixed-point number data obtained each time the training is repeated, wherein
the second determination unit (14b) applies the offset amount to the updated decimal point position.
3. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising a memory unit (15) that stores offset information in which the degree of the progress of the training is associated with the offset amount; and
when a change in the degree of the progress of the training is detected, the first determination unit (14a) determines the offset amount based on the offset information.
4. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising a detecting unit (14c) that detects an amount of fluctuation of the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data used in the training while the training of the learning model is repeated a given number of times, wherein
the first determination unit (14c) determines the offset amount based on the number of times of the detection of each of a plurality of the amounts of fluctuation while the training is repeated the given number of times.
5. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 4, further comprising a memory unit (15A) that stores offset information in which a threshold of a number of times of the detection of each of a plurality of the amounts of fluctuation is associated with an offset amount, wherein
the first determination unit (14c) determines the offset amount based on the offset information.
6. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to claim 4 or 5, wherein
the detecting unit (14c) detects, when a change in the degree of the progress of the training is detected, the amount of fluctuation while the training is repeated the given number of times, wherein
the first determination unit (14c) keeps the offset amount based on the number of times of the detection until a change in the degree of the progress of the training is detected next by the detecting unit (14c).
7. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 1-6, wherein the degree of progress of the learning is one or more of a learning rate, a loss function of the training, a recognition accuracy of the learning model, a quantization error of the training, and the number of iterations of the training.
8. The arithmetic processing apparatus according to any one of claims 1-7, wherein: the learning model is a neural network (20); and the second determination unit (14b) determines the decimal point position of a fixed-point number data used in calculation of each of a plurality of layers (21) included in the neural network (20).
9. A control program causing a computer to execute a process comprising: determining, when a training of a given learning model is repeatedly performed, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training in accordance with a degree of progress of the training; and determining, based on the offset amount, the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data used in the training.
10. The control program according to claim 9, wherein the process further comprises: updating the decimal point position based on statistical information (22) related to a distribution of positions of most significant bits or positions of least significant bits of each of a plurality of the fixed-point number data obtained each time the training is repeated; and applying the offset amount to the updated decimal point position.
11. The control program according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the process further comprises: when detecting a change in the degree of the progress of the training, determining the offset amount based on offset information in which the degree of the progress of the training is associated with the offset amount and which is stored in a memory (15).
12. The control program according to claim 9 or 10, wherein the process further comprises: detecting an amount of fluctuation of the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data used in the training while the training of the learning model is repeated a given number of times; and determining the offset amount based on the number of times of the detection of each of a plurality of the amounts of fluctuation while the training is repeated the given number of times.
13. The control program according to claim 12, wherein the process further comprises:
determining the offset amount based on offset information in which a threshold of a number of times of the detection of each of a plurality of the amounts of fluctuation is associated with an offset amount and which is stored in a memory (15A).
14. The control program according to claim 12 or 13, wherein the process further comprises: detecting, when detecting a change in the degree of the progress of the training, the amount of fluctuation while the training is repeated the given number of times; and keeping the offset amount based on the number of times of the detection until a change in the degree of the progress of the training is detected next.
15. A control method that causes the computer to execute a process comprising: determining, when a training of a given learning model is repeatedly performed, an offset amount for correcting a decimal point position of fixed-point number data used in the training in accordance with a degree of progress of the training; and determining, based on the offset amount, the decimal point position of the fixed-point number data used in the training.
</claims>
</document>
