<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,G06Q40/00,G06Q50/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXFO SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ORTET, Lucas
PELLOIN, Fabrice
BOUSSAC, Thierry
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70680232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
TIMELINE VISUALIZATION & INVESTIGATION SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR TIME LASTING EVENTS
</title>

<abstract>
Visualization systems and methods include, responsive to obtaining data related to one or more events occurring during operation of a system, displaying information about a time-based component of the one or more events on a timeline; displaying fixed information about a timeless component of the one or more events on the timeline; and responsive to user input to modify a timescale of the timeline, adjusting display of the timeline by adjusting the information of the one or more events and maintaining the fixed information of the one or more events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of monitoring a telecommunications network for the early detection of events in the telecommunications network, the method comprising: - graphically representing one or several events (502) occurring in the telecommunications network and experienced by subscribers of the telecommunications network by a pair of graphical objects (504, 506) in a timeline (500) on a display screen; - providing a means of changing the timescale of the timeline (500); - responsive to user input to change the timescale of the timeline (500), adjusting display of the timeline.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first graphical object of the pair is a placeholder (506), and the second graphical object of the pair is a line section (504), and
wherein, particularly, a change in scale of the timeline results in a corresponding length change in the line section (504) of the represented graphical object pair, whereas the size of the placeholder (506) of the represented graphical object pair remains constant.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the graphical representation step involves, for the graphical object pair, one, several or all of the following: - setting the length of the line section (504) in accordance with the amount of time between the starting point of the one event, amongst the events associated with the graphical object pair, with the earliest starting point amongst the events associated with the graphical object pair, and the end point of the one event, amongst the events associated with the graphical object pair, with the latest end point amongst the events associated with the graphical object pair; - associating a pictogram (510) with the placeholder (506) in accordance with the category of one of the events (502) associated with the graphical object pair; - setting the size of the placeholder (506) in accordance with the impact of one of the events (502) associated with the graphical object pair, the impact being indicated by the number of subscribers impacted by the event; - setting a color associated with the placeholder (506) in accordance with the severity of one of the events (502) associated with the graphical object pair, the severity being a function of the duration and the impact of the event; - setting the color of the line section (504) in accordance with the severity of one of the events associated with the graphical object pair, the severity being a function of the duration and the impact of the event (502); - setting the physical shape of the placeholder (506); - providing the placeholder (506) with a single or double shape borderline; - a flashing animation of a content of the placeholder (506); and - a shading animation of the placeholder (506).
4. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 2 to 3, wherein the placeholder (506) represents any of a category, a severity, an impact, a data source type, a group status, a pending status, and a notification status.
5. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 2 to 4, wherein graphical object pairs whose line sections (504) overlap are displayed in the timeline with an offset to each other, wherein, preferably, the offset's direction is at right angles to the orientation of the timeline's time axis.
6. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 2 to 5, wherein the line section (504) of the represented graphical object pair indicates a start time (508), a duration and one of an end time and a current time of the one or several events (502).
7. The computer-implemented method of any one of claims 2 to 6, wherein the placeholder (506) of the represented graphical object pair is located in the timeline (500) at one of an end time for a closed event and a current time for an open event.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the placeholder (506) is a circle or a bubble with a center located at the one of the end time and the current time.
9. The computer-implemented method of any one of the previous claims, the timeline (500) defining a time axis, further comprising the step of representing one or several events (502) by one graphical object (506) in the timeline,
wherein the position of said graphical object (506) along the time axis provides temporal information about the event(s) (502) represented by the graphical object, and the shape, size, color and/or appearance of said graphical object (506) provides further information about other characteristics of the event(s) (502) represented by the graphical object.
10. The computer-implemented method of any one of the previous claims, comprising the further step of combining time-correlated events (502) into one group, wherein each group is graphically represented in the timeline by a single pair of graphical objects.
11. The computer-implemented method of any one of the previous claims, wherein the events (502) are technical communication failures occurring in the telecommunications network.
12. The computer-implemented method of any one of the previous claims, further comprising the step of providing a means (520) of limiting the graphical representation of events (502) to events belonging to one or more specific categories only.
13. A computer program comprising instructions, which, when the program is executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 to 12.
14. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to carry out the computer-implemented method of any one of claims 1 to 12.
15. A data carrier signal carrying the computer program of claim 13.
16. A graphical user interface for monitoring a telecommunications network for the early detection of events in the telecommunications network, the graphical user interface including: - a graphical representation of one or several events (502) occurring in the telecommunications network and experienced by subscribers of the telecommunications network by a pair of graphical objects (504, 506) in a timeline (500); - a means of changing the timescale of the timeline (500).
17. The graphical user interface of claim 16, wherein the first graphical object of the pair is a placeholder (506), and the second graphical object of the pair is a line section (504), and wherein, particularly, the manipulation of the means of changing the timescale of the timeline (500) results in a corresponding length change in the line section (504) of the represented graphical object pair, whereas the size of the placeholder (506) of the represented graphical object pair remains constant.
</claims>
</document>
