<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/04,G06Q50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLIMATE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU, Lijuan
XU, Ying
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55661611
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FORECASTING NATIONAL CROP YIELD DURING THE GROWING SEASON
</title>

<abstract>
A method for determining national crop yields during the growing season using regional agricultural data. In an embodiment, a server computer system receives agricultural data records that represent covariate data values related to plants at specific geo-locations at a specific time. Agricultural data records are aggregated to create geo-specific time series that represents a specific geo-location at a specified time. An aggregated time series is created from a subset of the geo-specific time series. Then a covariate matrix is created from representative features from the aggregated time series for each specific geographic area. State specific crop yields are determined using a linear regression module to calculate the state specific crop yield for the specific year. A national crop yield is calculated using a distribution for a specific year from the sum of the state specific crop yields for the specific year nationally adjusted using a national yield adjustment module.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: using an aggregated time series module in a server computer system, receiving one or more agricultural data records that represent a type of covariate data value for plants at a specific geo-location at a specific time, wherein the type of covariate data value includes at least one of a remotely sensed spectral property of plant records at a particular spectral bandwidth range, and a soil moisture record; using the aggregated time series module, aggregating the one or more agricultural data records to create one or more geo-specific time series, wherein each geo-specific time series represents a specific geo-location over a specified time; using the aggregated time series module, creating one or more aggregated time series for each of one or more specific geographic areas, from a subset of the one or more geo-specific time series; using a crop yield estimating module in the server computer system, selecting a representative feature from the one or more aggregated time series and creating for each specific geographic area a covariate matrix in computer memory comprising the representative features selected from the one or more aggregate time series; using the crop yield estimating module in the server computer system, determining a specific state crop yield for a specific state and a specific year by using linear regression to calculate the specific state crop yield from the covariate matrix that represents the specific state for that specific year; using a national yield adjustment module, calculating, state specific weighted values for each specific state crop yield based upon historical state crop yield averages for each state, and calculating a set of national bias coefficients that account for biases and errors caused by incomplete data observations in the received one or more agricultural data records based upon covariate matrices representing the states for that specific year and the specific state crop yields for that specific year; storing the state specific weighted values and the set of national bias coefficients in computer memory to be used for future national crop yield determinations; using the crop yield estimating module in the server computer system, determining a national crop yield for the specific year from a sum of multiple specific state crop yields for the specific year nationally adjusted using the stored state specific weighted values and the set of national bias coefficients, stored in the computer memory, to adjust the specific state crop yields; receiving a request for the national crop yield for the specific year from a client computer; determining a mean projected revenue for a particular farm based on the national crop yield for the specific year; determining a recommendation for the particular farm based on the mean projected revenue for the particular farm; in response to receiving the request, causing display, on a graphical user interface at the client computer, of the national crop yield for the specific year; and providing, to a client machine associated with the particular farm, the recommendation for the particular farm.
2. The method of Claim 1, wherein aggregating the one or more agricultural data records to create one or more geo-specific time series further comprises filtering one or more agricultural data records that correspond to known geo-locations that are not used as agricultural growth areas.
3. The method of Claim 1, wherein aggregating the one or more agricultural data records to create one or more geo-specific time series further comprises selecting favorable data values from the one or more agricultural data records based upon a vegetation index, wherein a vegetation index is a combination of one or more wavelength ranges of remotely sensed spectral properties.
4. The method of Claim 1, wherein aggregating the one or more agricultural data records to create one or more geo-specific time series comprises aggregating soil moisture data records that correspond to a specific geo-location at a specific point in time.
5. The method of Claim 1, wherein selecting the representative feature from the one or more aggregated time series comprises: computing an average soil moisture value for a particular time window from the one or more aggregate time series; comparing the average soil moisture value to a historical climatology average value for a specific geographic area of the specific geographic areas; determining that the average soil moisture value is an anomaly when compared to the historical climatology average value; selecting the average soil moisture value as the representative feature representing relative wetness.
6. The method of Claim 1, wherein selecting the representative feature from the one or more aggregated time series comprises: computing an average soil moisture value for a particular time window from the one or more aggregate time series; comparing the average soil moisture value to a historical climatology average value for a specific geographic area of the specific geographic areas; determining that the average soil moisture value is an anomaly when compared to the historical climatology average value; selecting the average soil moisture value as the representative feature representing relative dryness.
7. The method of Claim 1, wherein selecting the representative feature from the one or more aggregated time series comprises selecting one of the following: a maximum value of the aggregated time series, an integral over a specified time period of the aggregated time series, an integral over a specified time period of the aggregated time series divided by a mean of the aggregated time series provided the mean is above a defined value threshold, an aggregated time series value at a period of time before the maximum value of the aggregated time series, or an aggregated time series value at a period of time after the maximum value of the aggregated time series.
8. The method of Claim 1, wherein the aggregated time series represents a specific state in a country.
9. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the specific state crop yield for the specific year by applying the normal distribution function comprises using independent and identically distributed random variables.
10. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the national crop yield for the specific year by applying the normal distribution function comprises using independent and identically distributed random variables.
11. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining the national crop yield for the specific year further comprises determining a prediction interval associated with the national crop yield, wherein the prediction interval is range of values that measures a level of certainty associated with the national crop yield.
12. The method of Claim 1, wherein determining a national crop yield for the specific year further comprises determining a distribution set associated with the national crop yield, wherein the distribution set measures a level of certainty associated with the national crop yield.
13. The method of Claim 1, wherein the national yield adjustment module comprises: calculating a mean parameter using a distribution generation module wherein the mean parameter comprises a sum of each specific state crop yield multiplied by a specific state weighted value, multiplied by a first national bias coefficient, and added to a second national bias coefficient; and calculating a variance parameter using the distribution generation module wherein the variance parameter comprises a sum of each specific state bias coefficient squared multiplied by the specific state weighted value, multiplied by the first national bias coefficient squared, and added to a third national bias coefficient squared.
14. The method of Claim 1, wherein creating one or more aggregated time series comprises applying locally weighted scatterplot smoothing to the subset of the one or more geo-specific time series and selecting median values from for each time interval to create the one or more aggregated time series.
15. One or more non-transitory data storage media storing instructions which, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause performance of a method as recited in any one of Claims 1-14.
</claims>
</document>
