<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING XIAOMI INTELLIGENT TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, Zuopeng
PAN, Xiaotong
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68660194
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD AND DEVICE FOR PROCESSING UNTAGGED DATA, AND STORAGE MEDIUM
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure discloses a data tagging method. The method includes: similarity comparison is performed on a semantic vector of untagged data and a semantic vector of each piece of tagged data to obtain similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data; a preset number of similarities are selected according to a preset selection rule; the untagged data is predicted by use of a tagging model obtained by training through the tagged data, to obtain a prediction result of the untagged data; and the untagged data is divided into untagged data that can be tagged by a device or untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device according to the preset number of similarities and the prediction result. The present disclosure also discloses a data tagging device and a storage medium.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing untagged data, characterized in that, the method comprises: performing similarity comparison on a semantic vector of untagged data and a semantic vector of each piece of tagged data to obtain similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data (101); selecting a preset number of similarities according to a preset selection rule (102); predicting the untagged data by use of a tagging model obtained by training through the tagged data, to obtain a prediction result of the untagged data (103); and dividing the untagged data into untagged data that can be tagged by a device or untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device according to the preset number of similarities and the prediction result (104).
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the preset number of similarities according to the preset selection rule comprises:
selecting the preset number of similarities from the obtained similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data according to a descending order of the similarities.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein dividing the untagged data into the untagged data that can be tagged by the device or the untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device according to the preset number of similarities and the prediction result comprises: when a statistical value of the preset number of similarities reaches a preset similarity threshold value, and when a total number of tagging results, which are same as the prediction result, of the tagged data corresponding to all the similarities among the preset number of similarities reaches a preset equal number threshold value, determining the untagged data as the untagged data that can be tagged by the device; otherwise, determining the untagged data as the untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: when the untagged data is determined as the untagged data that can be tagged by the device,
tagging the untagged data by use of the tagging result of the tagged data corresponding to a maximum similarity among the preset number of similarities; or determining first tagging results of first tagged data corresponding to the preset number of similarities respectively,
determining a total number of the first tagging results that are same as the prediction result, and
when the total number reaches a preset equal number threshold value, tagging the untagged data by use of the prediction result.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the statistical value of the preset number of similarities comprises at least one of:
a maximum similarity among the preset number of similarities, or an average similarity of the preset number of similarities.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein performing similarity comparison on the semantic vector of the untagged data and the semantic vector of each piece of tagged data comprises: comparing a word vector average value of the untagged data and a word vector average value of each piece of tagged data; or comparing a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) prediction result of the untagged data and an LSTM prediction result of each piece of tagged data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein obtaining the similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data comprises: obtaining cosine similarities corresponding to the respective pieces of tagged data; or obtaining Euclid similarities corresponding to the respective pieces of tagged data.
8. A device (100) for processing untagged data, comprising a comparison module (110), a selection module (120), a prediction module (130) and a determination module (140), characterized in that: the comparison module (110) is configured to perform similarity comparison on a semantic vector of untagged data and a semantic vector of each piece of tagged data to obtain similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data; the selection module (120) is configured to select a preset number of similarities according to a preset selection rule; the prediction module (130) is configured to predict the untagged data by use of a tagging model obtained by training through the tagged data, to obtain a prediction result of the untagged data; and the determination module (140) is configured to divide the untagged data into untagged data that can be tagged by a device or untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device according to the preset number of similarities and the prediction result.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the selection module (120) comprises:
a selection submodule (121) configured to select the preset number of similarities from the obtained similarities corresponding to respective pieces of tagged data according to a descending order of the similarities.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the determination module (140) comprises:
a determination submodule (141) configured to, when a statistical value of the preset number of similarities reaches a preset similarity threshold value and when the total number of tagging results, which are same as the prediction result, of the tagged data corresponding to all the similarities among the preset number of similarities reaches a preset equal number threshold value, determine the untagged data as the untagged data that can be tagged by the device; otherwise, determine the untagged data as the untagged data that cannot be tagged by the device.
11. The device of claim 8, further comprising: a tagging module (150) configured to, when the untagged data is determined as the untagged data that can be tagged by the device, tag the untagged data by use of the tagging result of the tagged data corresponding to a maximum similarity among the preset number of similarities; or determine first tagging results of first tagged data corresponding to the preset number of similarities respectively, determine a total number of the first tagging results that are same as the prediction result, and when the total number reaches a preset equal number threshold value, tag the untagged data by use of the prediction result.
12. The device of claim 10, wherein the statistical value of the preset number of similarities comprises at least one of:
a maximum similarity among the preset number of similarities, or an average similarity of the preset number of similarities.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the comparison module (110) comprises: a comparison submodule (111) configured to compare a word vector average value of the untagged data and a word vector average value of each piece of tagged data; or compare a Long Short Term Memory (LSTM) prediction result of the untagged data and an LSTM prediction result of each piece of tagged data.
14. A storage medium having stored thereon an executable program that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to implement the steps of the method for processing untagged data according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 7.
15. A computer program including instructions for executing the steps of a method for processing untagged data according to any one of the preceding claims 1 to 7 when said program is executed by a computer.
</claims>
</document>
