<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042,G07C5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JOHN DEERE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHROEDER, Warren L.
BRINKMAN, Jason E
SMART, David C.
ZEBARTH, Matthew R.
RITTER, Curtis P
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71728661
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CONTROLLER AREA NETWORK AND CONNECTIVITY HEALTH TROUBLESHOOTING SYSTEM
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for diagnosing connection and communication in an industrial machine includes performing a software check to obtain software data related to software applications, performing a connectivity check to obtain connection status data for one or more controllers, and performing a CAN bus check to obtain CAN bus data. The software data, connection status data, and CAN bus data is analyzed to determine a likely cause of an industrial machine connection or communication issue. A solution to the industrial machine connection or communication issue is output to a technician based on the analyzed data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of diagnosing a connection or communication issue with an industrial machine comprising: connecting to an electronic processing system of an industrial machine, wherein the electronic processing system includes a CAN bus and a plurality of controllers connected to the CAN bus, the plurality of controllers programmed to run one or more software applications; performing a software check to obtain software data related to the software applications; performing a connectivity check to obtain connection status data for one or more of the controllers; performing a CAN bus check to obtain CAN bus data; analyzing the software data, the connection status data, and the CAN bus data to determine a likely cause of an industrial machine connection or communication issue; outputting a solution to the industrial machine connection or communication issue to a technician based on the analyzed data.
2. The method claim 1, wherein connecting to the electronic processing system includes connecting from a remote location over a network or connecting locally onsite.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising capturing and storing resolution information.
4. The method of claim 1, 2 or 3, further comprising obtaining telematics data, wherein the telematics data includes past machine health data.
5. The method of any preceding claim wherein performing the software check includes at least one of determining if there are any missing or conflicting software applications, determining if there is a missing file or driver, determining if any software updates are needed, and determining if there are software dependencies between different controllers.
6. The method of any preceding claim, wherein performing the connectivity check includes at least one of performing a VCI hardware status check, obtaining RP1210 information, obtaining machine controller programming error logs, obtaining engine controller programming error objects, and obtaining software processor error logs.
7. The method of any preceding claim, wherein performing the CAN bus check includes at least one of performing a VCI status check, injecting a voltage pulse and performing an advanced CAN diagnostic, performing a physical layer check, performing a message check, and performing a controller response check.
8. An industrial machine connection and communication diagnostic system comprising: a communication interface configured to connect to an electronic processing system of an industrial machine, wherein the electronic processing system includes a CAN bus and a plurality of controllers connected to the CAN bus, the plurality of controllers programmed to run one or more software applications; and a diagnostic module configured to initiate a software check to obtain software data related to the software applications, initiate a connectivity check to obtain connection status data for one or more of the controllers, initiate a CAN bus check to obtain CAN bus data, and analyze the software data, the connection status data, and the CAN bus data to determine a likely cause of an industrial machine connection or communication issue and output a solution to the industrial machine connection or communication issue to a technician based on the analyzed data.
9. The connection and communication diagnostic system of claim 8, wherein initiating the software check includes at least one of determining if there are any missing or conflicting software applications, determining if there is a missing file or driver, determining if any software updates are needed, and determining if there are software dependencies between different controllers.
10. The connection and communication diagnostic system of claim 8 or 9, wherein performing the connectivity check includes at least one of performing a VCI hardware status check, obtaining RP1210 information, obtaining machine controller programming error logs, obtaining engine controller programming error objects, and obtaining software processor error logs.
11. The connection and communication diagnostic system of claim 8, 9 or 10 wherein performing the CAN bus check includes at least one of performing a VCI status check, injecting a voltage pulse and performing an advanced CAN diagnostic, performing a physical layer check, performing a message check.
12. The connection and communication diagnostic system of any of claims 8 to 11, wherein the diagnostic module is configured to receive telematics data, wherein the telematics data includes past machine health data that is analyzed with the software data, the connection status data, and the CAN bus data to determine the likely cause of an industrial machine connection or communication issue.
13. The connection and communication diagnostic system of any of claims 8 to 12, wherein the diagnostic module is configured to initiate a controller response check, the controller response check includes determining the number of controllers and the controller layout, request a response from each controller, provide a graphical representation of the controller layout, determine a fault, and display the location of the fault on the graphical representation.
14. The industrial machine connection and communication diagnostic system of claim 13, wherein determining the fault includes at least one of obtaining error counts, obtaining diagnostic trouble codes, and obtaining voltage readings.
15. The industrial machine connection and communication diagnostic system of claim 13 or 14, wherein displaying the fault on the graphical representation includes highlighting a network segment.
</claims>
</document>
