<document>

<filing_date>
2020-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Avaya Management L.P.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ERHART, GEORGE
HIRANO, Atsushi
KLEMM, Reinhard
SISSELMAN, Michael
JU, Wen-Hua
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71833148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCED DIGITAL MESSAGING
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure provide a method of processing messages received in an asynchronous communication system. In some embodiments, the method includes determining that a conversation is established with a customer communication device using an asynchronous communication channel, analyzing one or more messages exchanged over the asynchronous communication channel to determine a likelihood of communication disengagement, comparing the likelihood of communication disengagement with a predetermined disengagement threshold, and based on the comparison of the likelihood of communication disengagement with the predetermined threshold, updating a graphical user interface of an agent communication device being used to engage in the conversation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing messages received in an asynchronous communication system, the method comprising: determining that a conversation is established with a customer communication device using an asynchronous communication channel; analyzing one or more messages exchanged over the asynchronous communication channel to determine a likelihood of communication disengagement; comparing the likelihood of communication disengagement with a predetermined disengagement threshold; and based on the comparison of the likelihood of communication disengagement with the predetermined disengagement threshold, updating a graphical user interface of an agent communication device being used to engage in the conversation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the one or more messages comprises analyzing a content of a message, wherein the content of the message is analyzed with a natural language processor and wherein the message comprises a customer message received from the customer communication device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more messages is received over a digital communication channel using a first messaging protocol and wherein other messages belonging to the conversation are received over the digital communication channel using a second messaging protocol, wherein the first messaging protocol comprises a text-based communication protocol.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: changing a state of an agent associated with the agent communication device; and assigning the agent to a task not associated with the conversation in response to changing the state of the agent.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the one or more messages comprises detecting a topic of conversation and determining whether the topic of conversation is likely to result in communication disengagement after a predetermined amount of time has passed between message exchanges.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing the one or more messages comprises analyzing historical communication patterns and comparing the historical communication patterns with a communication pattern exhibited by the conversation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the graphical user interface of the agent communication device comprises automatically minimizing or hiding a chat window associated with the conversation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the graphical user interface of the agent communication device comprises automatically closing a chat window associated with the conversation or automatically highlighting a chat window associated with the conversation.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: restarting a timer after a new message is received from the customer communication device; comparing a value of the timer with a predetermined timer threshold value; determining that the value of the timer exceeds the predetermined timer threshold value; and in response to determining that the value of the timer exceeds the predetermined timer threshold value, causing the analysis of the one or more messages to begin.
10. A communication system, comprising: a processor; and computer memory storing data thereon that enables the processor to: receive a message from a customer communication device; analyze content of the message; determine that a conversation is already established in association with the customer communication device; based on the analysis of the message, determine a probability of customer engagement for the conversation; compare the probability of customer engagement with a predetermined probability threshold; and based on the comparison of the probability of customer engagement with the predetermined probability threshold, automatically alter a graphical user interface of an agent communication device being used to engage in the conversation.
11. The communication system of claim 10, wherein the data stored on the computer memory further enables the processor to: based on the analysis of the message, determine a conversational velocity associated with the conversation; compare the conversational velocity with a predetermined velocity threshold; and based on the comparison of the conversational velocity with the predetermined velocity threshold, automatically alter the graphical user interface of the agent communication device being used to engage in the conversation.
12. The communication system of claim 10, wherein the data stored on the computer memory further enables the processor to: analyze content of the message; determine, based on the analysis of the content of the message, that a natural break has occurred in the conversation; and based on determining that the natural break has occurred, decrease the probability of customer engagement for the conversation.
13. The communication system of claim 10, wherein automatically altering the graphical user interface comprises at least one automatically highlighting a chat window associated with the conversation, automatically closing the chat window associated with the conversation, and automatically minimizing or hiding the chat window associated with the conversation, and wherein the data stored on the computer memory further enables the processor to: analyze content of the message; determine, based on the analysis of the content of the message, that a customer is actively disengaging from the conversation; and based on determining that the customer is actively disengaging from the conversation, decrease the probability of customer engagement for the conversation.
14. A contact center, comprising:
a server comprising a processor and a chatbot engine that is executable by the processor and that enables the processor to: analyze content of a plurality of conversations assigned to an agent; based on the analysis of content, determine that a conversation in the plurality of conversations assigned to the agent comprises a probability of engagement that is below a predetermined probability threshold; based on determining that the conversation in the plurality of conversations assigned to the agent comprises the probability of engagement that is below the predetermined probability threshold, identify at least one automated action to invoke for a chat window associated with the conversation; and cause a graphical user interface of the agent to automatically invoke the at least one automated action, thereby modifying the chat window in accordance with the at least one automated action.
15. The contact center of claim 14, wherein the at least one automated action comprises at least one of: automatically highlighting the chat window; automatically closing the chat window; and automatically minimizing or hiding the chat window, and wherein the chatbot engine further enables the processor to: based on the analysis of content, determine a conversational velocity associated with the conversation; compare the conversational velocity with a predetermined velocity threshold; and based on the comparison of the conversational velocity with the predetermined velocity threshold, cause the chat window to be modified in accordance with the at least one automated action.
</claims>
</document>
