<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G16H10/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SARTORIUS STEDIM DATA ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLOAREC, Olivier
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67734611
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
STORING DATA FROM A PROCESS TO PRODUCE A CHEMICAL, PHARMACEUTICAL, BIOPHARMACEUTICAL AND/OR BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects relate to a computer-implemented method, a computer program and a system for storing a heterogeneous sequence of discrete-time data determined from a process to produce a chemical, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and/or biological product. The method comprises receiving the discrete-time data, the discrete-time data comprising first data from a first scientific instrument, the first data including a first timestamp corresponding to a first digital signal. The method further comprises receiving second data from a second scientific instrument, the second data including a second timestamp corresponding to a second digital signal. The first scientific instrument differs from the second scientific instrument. The method further comprises storing the first data and first metadata in a first record of a database. The first record comprises a first intensities field having a first data type, and a first descriptors field having a second data type. The method further comprises storing the second data and second metadata in a second record of the database. The second record comprises a second intensities field having the first data type, and a second descriptors field having the second data type. The first metadata includes a first identifier and the second metadata includes a second identifier. When the first data includes first intensities and first descriptors of the first digital signal, storing the first data further comprises storing the first intensities in the first intensities field, and storing the first descriptors in the first descriptors field. When the second data includes second intensities and second descriptors of the second digital signal, storing the second data further comprises storing the second intensities in the second intensities field, and storing the second descriptors in the second descriptors field.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for storing a heterogeneous sequence of discrete-time data determined from a process to produce a chemical, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and/or biological product, the method comprising: receiving the discrete-time data, the discrete-time data comprising: first data from a first scientific instrument, the first data including a first timestamp (203) corresponding to a first digital signal; and second data from a second scientific instrument, the second data including a second timestamp (303) corresponding to a second digital signal; wherein the first scientific instrument differs from the second scientific instrument; storing the first data and first metadata (115) in a first record (200) of a database, the first record (200) comprising: a first intensities field (113) having a first data type, and a first descriptors field (111) having a second data type; storing the second data and second metadata (115) in a second record (300) of the database, the second record (300) comprising: a second intensities field (113) having the first data type, and a second descriptors field (111) having the second data type; wherein the first metadata (115) includes a first identifier (211) and the second metadata (115) includes a second identifier (307), when the first data includes first intensities (207) and first descriptors (205) of the first digital signal, storing the first data further comprises: storing the first intensities (207) in the first intensities field (113), and storing the first descriptors (205) in the first descriptors field (111); when the second data includes second intensities and second descriptors of the second digital signal, storing the second data further comprises: storing the second intensities in the second intensities field (113), and storing the second descriptors in the second descriptors field (111).
2. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first one and/or the second one of the scientific instruments includes one of the following: a spectrometer, a flow cytometer, a physiology data collection device, a biological sequence data collection device, a microscope.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein
when a respective one of the scientific instruments includes the spectrometer, the respective data of the respective scientific instrument includes spectroscopic data, the spectroscopic data including wavelengths and spectroscopically determined values corresponding to the wavelengths,
wherein the respective descriptors are the wavelengths and the respective intensities are the spectroscopic values corresponding to the wavelengths; and
when a respective one of the scientific instruments includes the biological sequence data collection device, the respective data includes gene sequence data, wherein the respective descriptors are gene identifiers and the respective intensities reflect an expression of protein.
4. The method of any one of the preceding claims,
wherein the first data consists of all data provided by the first scientific instrument corresponding to the first timestamp (203); and/or
wherein the second data consists of all data provided by the second scientific instrument corresponding to the second timestamp (303);
wherein the first data may represent the first digital signal at the first timestamp (203);
wherein the second data may represent the second digital signal at the second timestamp (303).
5. The method of any one of the preceding claims,
wherein each of the records comprises a reference field (109);
when the respective data from one of the scientific instruments does not include respective intensities or respective descriptors, the method may further comprise: storing the respective data in a clustered file system; storing a location (305) of the respective data in the reference field (109); wherein a format of the respective data has one or more of the following characteristics: the format is not human-readable, the format is binary, the format is an encoded content format, the format is a compression format; when the respective data from one of the scientific instruments includes respective intensities and respective descriptors, as well as additional data, the method may further comprise: storing the additional data in the clustered file system; and storing a location of the additional data in the reference field (109).
6. The method of any one of the preceding claims,
when the respective data from one of the scientific instruments does not include respective intensities or respective descriptors: the respective data includes a formatted text document, a graph, an image or a video, when the respective data includes the image, the image is from a microscope.
7. The method of any one of the preceding claims, further comprising: providing a user interface to query the first data, the second data, the first metadata (115), and the second metadata (115); wherein the user interface is implemented using a schema and data manipulation tool.
8. The method of any one of the preceding claims, when the respective data from one of the scientific instruments includes respective intensities and respective descriptors, the respective data is in a human-readable format.
9. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the discrete-time data further comprises third data (401), the third data (401) comprising a single value determined by a process control device for controlling the process, the single value having a corresponding timestamp.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining a descriptor for the third data (401); storing the third data (401) and third metadata in a third record, the third record comprising a third intensities field (113) having the first data type and a third descriptors field (111) having the second data type, the storing comprising: storing the single value (401) in the third intensities field (113); and storing the descriptor in the third descriptors field (111); wherein the third metadata includes the third identifier.
11. The method of claim 9 or 10, wherein the third data (401) is scale-independent and/or sampling-independent.
12. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first data type and/or the second data type includes at least one of the following: a composite data type and a linear data structure.
13. The method of any one of the preceding claims, wherein the first data type and/or the second data type includes an array, wherein each of the data types specifies the same number of dimensions.
14. A computer program comprising computer-readable instructions, which, when loaded and executed on a computer system, cause the computer system to perform operations according to the method of any one of the preceding claims.
15. A system for storing a heterogeneous sequence of discrete-time data determined from a process to produce a chemical, pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and/or biological product, the system comprising: a first interface to a first scientific instrument; a second interface to a second scientific instrument; a database configured to: receive the discrete-time data via the first interface and the second interface, the discrete-time data comprising: first data from the first scientific instrument, the first data including a first timestamp (203) corresponding to a first digital signal; and second data from the second scientific instrument, the second data including a second timestamp (303) corresponding to a second digital signal; store the first data and first metadata (115) in a first record (200), the first record (200) comprising: a first intensities field (113) having a first data type, and a first descriptors field (111) having a second data type; store the second data and second metadata (115) in a second record (300), the second record (300) comprising: a second intensities field (113) having the first data type, and a second descriptors field (111) having the second data type; wherein the first metadata (115) includes a first identifier (211) and the second metadata (115) includes a second identifier (307), when the first data includes first intensities (207) and first descriptors (205) of the first digital signal, the database is configured to store the first data by: storing the first intensities (207) in the first intensities field (113), and storing the first descriptors (205) in the first descriptors field (111); when the second data includes second intensities and second descriptors of the second digital signal, the database is configured to store the second data by: storing the second intensities in the second intensities field (113), and storing the second descriptors in the second descriptors field (111).
</claims>
</document>
