<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HITACHI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KURODA, EISUKE
YATSU, MASAHIRO
KIRIHARA, KENTA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70681660
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
POWER SYSTEM STABILIZATION SYSTEM AND POWER SYSTEM STABILIZATION METHOD USING CALCULATED POWER SYSTEM SENSITIVITY
</title>

<abstract>
Operations for stabilizing a power system are more appropriately supported. A system stabilization system (1) that supports stabilization of a power system includes a dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2), a system abnormality resolution procedure generation unit (3), and an output unit (6). The dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2) generates dynamic system sensitivity (D2) of the power system by using measurement data (D1) obtained by a measurement unit installed in the power system and a sensitivity calculation parameter (D7) as inputs. The system abnormality resolution procedure generation unit (3) uses the dynamic system sensitivity (D2), a controllable device list (D3) indicating a controllable device in the power system, and a system abnormality resolution procedure generation policy (D8) as inputs, to generate a system abnormality resolution procedure (D6) with which the power system is operated with the controllable device controlled to resolve a system abnormality in the power system. The output unit (6) outputs the system abnormality resolution procedure (D6).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A power system stabilization system that supports stabilization of a power system (12), the power system stabilization system comprising: a dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2) that generates dynamic system sensitivity of the power system (12) by using measurement data obtained by a measurement unit installed in the power system (12) and a sensitivity calculation parameter as inputs; a system abnormality resolution procedure generation unit (3) that, using the dynamic system sensitivity, a controllable device list indicating a controllable device in the power system (12), and a system abnormality resolution procedure generation policy as inputs, generates a system abnormality resolution procedure with which the power system is operated with the controllable device controlled to resolve a system abnormality in the power system (12); and an output unit (6) that outputs the system abnormality resolution procedure.
2. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein the dynamic system sensitivity is a sensitivity function that, assuming that measurement data obtained by one measurement unit in the power system (12) is an input variable and measurement data obtained by another measurement unit is an output variable, indicates an amount of change in the output variable relative to an amount of change in the input variable.
3. The power system stabilization system according to claim 2, wherein a format of the sensitivity function is any of a matrix, a polynomial, and a neural network.
4. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein the controllable device includes one or more of a breaker, a transformer, a generator, a charger, a power storage system, a pumped-storage generator, a reactive power supplier, a phase regulator, and a relay.
5. The power system stabilization system according to claim 2, wherein the sensitivity calculation parameter includes a range of types and range on time series of pieces of the measurement data as the input and the output for generating the dynamic system sensitivity, a propagation delay time to be taken into consideration between the input and the output, a method of removing noise from the measurement data, a recalculation condition of the dynamic system sensitivity, a format of the sensitivity function, and a method of calculating the sensitivity function.
6. The power system stabilization system according to claim 5, wherein the dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2) calculates, when the recalculation condition designated by the sensitivity calculation parameter is satisfied, the dynamic system sensitivity from an amount of change in an output variable relative to an input variable, the input variable and the output variable being selected as one or more of voltage, current, phase, frequency, frequency change rate, active power, reactive power, and generator angular velocity from the measurement data, based on a range of types and a range on a time series of pieces of the measurement data designated to be the input and the output by the sensitivity calculation parameter.
7. The power system stabilization system according to claim 6, wherein the input variable at least includes the voltage.
8. The power system stabilization system according to claim 7, wherein when calculating the amount of change, the dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2) designates a range of types and a range on a time series of pieces of the measurement data used as the input and the output based on the sensitivity calculation parameter to select the input variable and the output variable, and removes propagation delay and noise from the pieces of measurement data as the input variable and the output variable.
9. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein the system abnormality resolution procedure generation policy includes at least one of a type of the system abnormality, a recalculation cycle of the system abnormality resolution procedure, a time required for resolving the system abnormality, and a standby time until the system abnormality starts to be resolved.
10. The power system stabilization system according to claim 9, wherein based on the system abnormality resolution procedure generation policy, the system abnormality resolution procedure generation unit (3) checks whether there is the system abnormality, and when there is the system abnormality, generates a satisfaction problem with the dynamic system sensitivity being an objective function or an optimization problem with the dynamic system sensitivity being a constraint expression, generates the system abnormality resolution procedure from a solution of the satisfaction problem or the optimization problem, and calculates a cost of the system abnormality resolution procedure.
11. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein
the dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2)
generates dynamic system sensitivity of a partial system of the power system, and
outputs system sensitivity as a result of replacing a part of system model sensitivity generated from a system model of the power system corresponding to the partial system with the dynamic system sensitivity of the partial system.
12. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein
the dynamic system sensitivity generation unit (2)
determines whether the dynamic system sensitivity is within an effective range based on an error of the dynamic system sensitivity with respect to system model sensitivity generated from a system model of the power system (12), and
outputs the dynamic system sensitivity when the dynamic system sensitivity is within the effective range and outputs the system model sensitivity when the dynamic system sensitivity is outside the effective range.
13. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1 further comprising a control unit (4) that controls the controllable device based on the system abnormality resolution procedure.
14. The power system stabilization system according to claim 1, wherein an installation location of the measurement unit in the power system (12) is determined by: obtaining an objective function corresponding to conditions that the required number of measurement units is minimum, the measurement units can monitor all bus lines, and that the required number of measurement units are able to be secured with a variable only capable of being 0 or 1 by using a connection configuration of the power system (12), the number of redundant measurements of the measurement unit, and locations of existing measurement units as inputs; converting the objective function into an Ising model with which a value of the variable of the objective function is represented by any of -1 and 1; and calculating the Ising model with a non-von Neumann computer.
15. A power system stabilization method executed by a power system stabilization system that supports stabilization of a power system (12), the method comprising: generating dynamic system sensitivity of the power system (12) by using measurement data obtained by a measurement unit installed in the power system (12) and a sensitivity calculation parameter as inputs; generating, using the dynamic system sensitivity, a controllable device list indicating a controllable device in the power system (12), and a system abnormality resolution procedure generation policy as inputs, a system abnormality resolution procedure with which the power system (12) is operated with the controllable device controlled to resolve a system abnormality in the power system (12); and outputting the system abnormality resolution procedure.
</claims>
</document>
