<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L21/0208
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHENZHEN TCL NEW TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, Wenjie
ZHAO, Wenling
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67062995
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
METHOD, SYSTEM AND STORAGE MEDIUM FOR SOLVING ECHO CANCELLATION FAILURE
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and storage medium for solving echo cancellation failure; method comprises: starting echo cancellation algorithm for convergence of self-adapting filter to stabilize coefficient of filter function (S100); presetting maximum amplitude value for signal intensity that microphone can receive, and detecting if microphone signal lower than maximum amplitude value (S200); prompting user or television system automatically to turn down television volume when microphone received signal larger than or equal to maximum amplitude value, to ensure microphone received signal intensity lower than maximum amplitude value (S300); echo cancellation being carried out without distortion of signals, wherein coefficient of self-adapting filter function W(n) may be continually kept stable, avoiding self-adapting filter converging multiple times due to signal distortion (S400). Method effectively solves problem of echo cancellation of self-adapting filter failing caused by multiple convergences due to clipping distortion of microphone signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for solving an echo cancellation failure, applied to solving a problem of a television that an echo cancellation function failure caused by a clipping distortion of a microphone signal, wherein the method for solving the echo cancellation failure comprises a plurality of following steps: A. starting an echo cancellation algorithm, and a self-adapting filter performing a convergence, to make a plurality of coefficients of a filter function to be stable; B. presetting a maximum amplitude value for a microphone signal, and detecting if the microphone signal is lower than the maximum amplitude value; C. turning down a volume of the television, and making the microphone signal smaller than the maximum amplitude value, when the microphone signal is larger than or equal to the maximum amplitude value; D. performing an echo cancellation to the microphone signal by adopting the filter function in a stable state.
2. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 1, wherein in the step A, after starting the echo cancellation algorithm, the self-adapting filter requires a fast convergence, after the convergence is done, the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function tend to be stable, when an echo path is unchanged or a microphone signal does not appear a clipping distortion, the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function will remain stable; when the microphone signal has a clipping distortion, the self-adapting filter re-converges, by adjusting the coefficients of the filter function to adapt a filtering requirement under a new status, making the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function remain stable.
3. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 1, wherein the step B comprises specifically a plurality of following steps: detecting a sound intensity played by the television; in combination with the sound intensity played by the television, presetting a maximum amplitude value of the signal intensity allowed by a microphone, to make a signal received by the microphone to be smaller than the maximum amplitude value.
4. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 3, wherein in the step C, when the microphone signal is larger than or equal to the maximum amplitude value, a system turns down the volume automatically, making the signal that the microphone receives smaller than the maximum amplitude value, and ensuring that the echo cancellation is performing without any signal distortions, so as to avoid a multiple convergence.
5. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 4, wherein in the step D, after the signal that the microphone receives is smaller than the maximum amplitude value without any distortions, performing the echo cancellation by adopting the filter function in a stable state, and without re-converging the self-adapting filter, thus when the volume of the television lowers down, the echo cancellation recovers.
6. A system for solving an echo cancellation failure, configured to solve a problem of the echo cancellation function failure in a certain period, caused by a clipping distortion of a microphone signal, wherein the system comprises: an echo cancellation module, a microphone signal control module and a volume control module;
the echo cancellation module, configured to start an echo cancellation algorithm for an echo cancellation, converging a self-adapting filter, so as to make a plurality of coefficients of a filter function stable;
the microphone signal control module, configured to detect a signal intensity of the microphone, and decide if the signal intensity that the microphone receives is larger than a maximum amplitude value preset;
the volume control module, configured to control a volume of the television, making the signal intensity that the microphone receives smaller than the maximum amplitude value;
when the microphone signal control module detects that the microphone signal is larger than the maximum amplitude value preset, the volume control module lowers the volume of the television, and makes the signal intensity that the microphone receives smaller than the maximum amplitude value, and the echo cancellation module performs the echo cancellation by adopting the filter function in a stable state.
7. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 6, wherein a specific function of the echo cancellation module achieving the echo cancellation is as below:
after starting the echo cancellation algorithm, the self-adapting filter function requires a fast convergence, after the convergence is done, the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function approaches stable, when an echo path is unchanged or the microphone signal has no clipping distortion, making the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function keep stable; when the microphone signal appears a clipping distortion, the self-adapting filter re-converges, and adapts a filter requirement under a new state through adjusting the coefficients of the filter function, making the coefficients of the self-adapting filter function approaches stable keep stable.
8. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 6, wherein the microphone signal control module comprises a plurality of following functions specifically:
presetting a maximum amplitude value of the signal intensity allowed to receive by the microphone, detecting the size of the voice that the television plays, when the microphone signal is larger than or equal to the maximum amplitude value, the volume control module is noticed to lower the volume of the television automatically, to ensure that the echo cancellation is processed without any signal clipping distortions.
9. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 8, wherein the volume control module comprises a plurality of following functions specifically:
when the microphone signal control module detects that the microphone signal is larger than or equal to the maximum amplitude value preset of the microphone signal, the volume control module is then noticed, the volume control module controls lower the volume of the television, making the signal that the microphone received not exceed the maximum amplitude value, to ensure the echo cancellation module to execute the echo cancellation without any signal distortions.
10. A storage medium, wherein the storage medium has a program for solving an echo cancellation failure stored, when the program for solving the echo cancellation failure is executed by a processor, the steps of the method for solving the echo cancellation failure are achieved according to anyone of claims 1 to 5.
11. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 1, wherein in the step A, a plurality of steps of the self-adapting filter performing the convergence comprise: the self-adapting filter updates and adjusts a plurality of weighting coefficients for each sample of an input signal sequence, making an output signal sequence approximate a desired signal sequence, to solve an echo path function; wherein the input signal is an echo reference signal, the desired signal is an echo signal that the microphone received.
12. The method for solving an echo cancellation failure according to claim 1, wherein in the step C, turning down the volume of the television is achieved manually or automatically by starting a system.
13. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 9, wherein the volume control module comprises a plurality of following functions specifically:
when the microphone signal control module detects that the microphone signal is larger than the maximum amplitude value preset, the volume control module lowers the volume of the television, making the signal that the microphone received smaller than the maximum amplitude value, and the echo cancellation is processed by the echo cancellation module adopting a filter function in a steady state.
14. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 6, wherein converging the self-adapting filter comprises specifically: the self-adapting filter updates and adjusts a plurality of weighting coefficients for each sample of an input signal sequence, making an output signal sequence approximate a desired signal sequence, to solve an echo path function; wherein the input signal is an echo reference signal, the desired signal is an echo signal that the microphone received.
15. The system for solving the echo cancellation failure according to claim 6, wherein the volume control module lowers the volume of the television manually or automatically by starting a system.
</claims>
</document>
