<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/02,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JO, Hyuna
HA, Jihun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70057065
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
VIRTUALIZATION OF RAN FUNCTIONS BASED ON LOAD OF THE BASE STATIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a method and/or apparatus for performing a radio access network (RAN) function in a wireless communication system. A server performing a radio access network (RAN) function may be configured to obtain traffic processing information about a plurality of base stations (BSs) connected to the server, obtain information about traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs, based on the traffic processing information, and adjust a resource and/or the number of software components (SCs) to virtualize a RAN function in the server, based on the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of performing, by a server, a radio access network (RAN) function, the method comprising: obtaining traffic processing information about a plurality of base stations (BSs) connected to the server; obtaining information about traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs, based on the traffic processing information; and adjusting a resource, or the number of software components (SCs), to virtualize at least one RAN function in the server based on the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the traffic processing information comprises information about traffic occurred in the plurality of BSs during at least one time period, and information about a resource for processing the traffic.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the traffic processing information comprises receiving the traffic processing information from the plurality of BSs or an external device connected to the server.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting comprises: increasing the number of the SCs when an amount of the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs is to increase, and decreasing the number of the SCs when an amount of the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs is to decrease.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting comprises adjusting the number of the SCs in a unit of a package comprising a plurality of SCs.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the information about the traffic to occur comprises: identifying a pattern of an amount of traffic occurred in each of time-frequency resource domains, based on the traffic processing information; and obtaining information about traffic to occur in a particular time-frequency resource domain, based on the pattern of the amount of the traffic.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting comprises, when an amount of traffic to occur in a particular RAN function is increased, increasing a resource of an SC to perform the particular RAN function, and when an amount of traffic to occur in the particular RAN function is decreased, decreasing the resource of the SC to perform the particular RAN function.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising obtaining information about an event that is scheduled with respect to the plurality of BSs and cause a change in traffic, and
wherein the obtaining of the information about the traffic to occur comprises: identifying, based on the traffic processing information, an amount of traffic occurred in the plurality of BSs according to each of events; and comparing the identified amount of the traffic according to each of the events with the event scheduled with respect to the plurality of BSs, and thus obtaining the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs .
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the RAN function comprises at least one of a physical (PHY) layer function, a medium access control (MAC) layer function, a radio link control (RLC) layer function, or a packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer function.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the SC comprises at least one of a container or a virtual machine (VM).
11. A server for performing a radio access network (RAN) function, the server comprising: a transceiver; a memory storing one or more instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the one or more instructions stored in the memory to: obtain traffic processing information about a plurality of base stations (BSs) connected to the server; obtain information about traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs, based on the traffic processing information; and adjust at least one of a resource or the number of software components (SCs), to virtualize at least one RAN function in the server based on the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the traffic processing information comprises information about traffic occurred in the plurality of BSs during at least one time period, and information about a resource for processing the traffic.
13. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to receive the traffic processing information from the plurality of BSs or an external device connected to the server.
14. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: increase the number of the SCs when an amount of the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs is to increase, and decrease the number of the SCs when an amount of the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs is to decrease.
15. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to adjust the number of the SCs in a unit of a package comprising a plurality of SCs.
16. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: identify a pattern of an amount of traffic occurred in each of time-frequency resource domains, based on the traffic processing information; and obtain information about traffic to occur in a particular time-frequency resource domain, based on the pattern of the amount of the traffic.
17. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to: when an amount of traffic to occur in a particular RAN function is increased, increase a resource of an SC to perform the particular RAN function, and when an amount of traffic to occur in the particular RAN function is decreased, decrease the resource of the SC to perform the particular RAN function.
18. The server of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to execute the one or more instructions to
obtain information about an event that is scheduled with respect to the plurality of BSs and causes a change in traffic,
identify, based on the traffic processing information, an amount of traffic occurred in the plurality of BSs according to each of events, and
compare the identified amount of the traffic according to each of the events with the event scheduled with respect to the plurality of BSs, and thus obtain the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs.
19. The server of claim 11, wherein the RAN function comprises at least one of a physical (PHY) layer function, a medium access control (MAC) layer function, a radio link control (RLC) layer function, or a packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer function.
20. The server of claim 11, wherein each of the SCs comprises at least one of a container or a virtual machine (VM).
21. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable recording medium having recorded thereon a program by which a server performs a method of performing a radio access network (RAN) function, the method comprising: obtaining traffic processing information about a plurality of base stations (BSs) connected to the server; obtaining information about traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs, based on the traffic processing information; and adjusting at least one of a resource or the number of software components (SCs), to virtualize at least one RAN function in the server based on the information about the traffic to occur in the plurality of BSs.
</claims>
</document>
