<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLLENDER, MARTIN
STEICKERT, Dominik
LENDERS, Felix
STRÜMPFLER, Mark-Stefan
LITZELMANN, Rebekka
BICIK, Josef
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66397010
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM FOR ACTION DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention relates to a system for action determination. The system comprises an input unit, a processing unit, and an output unit. The input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past actions over a period of time associated with the operation of an industrial process. The input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past process events over the time period associated with the operation of the industrial process. The input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a new process event. The processing unit is configured to determine a correlation between at least some of the plurality of past actions with at least some of the past process events. The processing unit is configured to determine at least one recommended action from the information relating to the new process event, the determination comprising utilization of the determined correlation. The output unit is configured to output the at least one recommended action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for action determination, comprising: - an input unit; - a processing unit; and - an output unit; wherein, the input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past actions over a period of time associated with the operation of an industrial process;
wherein, the input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past process events over the time period associated with the operation of the industrial process;
wherein, the input unit is configured to provide the processing unit with information relating to a new process event;
wherein, the processing unit is configured to determine a correlation between at least some of the plurality of past actions with at least some of the past process events;
wherein, the processing unit is configured to determine at least one recommended action from the information relating to the new process event, the determination comprising utilization of the determined correlation; and
wherein, the output unit is configured to output the at least one recommended action.
2. System according to claim 1, wherein the information relating to the plurality of past process actions comprises one or more operator actions.
3. System according to any of claims 1-2, wherein the information relating to the plurality of process actions comprises one or more actions on a GUI level.
4. System according to any of claims 1-3, wherein the information relating to the plurality of process events comprises one or more alarms.
5. System according to any of claims 1-4, wherein the information relating to the plurality of process events comprises one or more system states.
6. System according to claim 5, wherein the one or more system states comprises one or more current system states and/or one or more predicted system states.
7. System according to any of claims 1-6, wherein the new process event is an alarm.
8. System according to claim 5 or any of claims 6-7 when dependent upon claim 5, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine the at least some of the past process events, the determination comprising ignoring one or more alarms that appear multiple times.
9. System according to claim 5 or any of claims 6-7 when dependent upon claim 5 or claim 8, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine the at least some of the past process events, the determination comprising ignoring one or more alarms that appear uniformly over the time period.
10. System according to claim 5 or any of claims 6-7 when dependent upon claim 5 or any of claims 8-9, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein the processing unit is configured to determine the at least some of the past process events, the determination comprising clustering multiple identical alarms within a defined short time interval relative to the period of time into a single alarm.
11. System according to claim 5, or any of claims 6-10 when dependent upon claim 5, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein determination of the correlation comprises a statistical analysis to detect a relationship between alarms and actions.
12. System according to claim 5, or any of claims 6-11 when dependent upon claim 5, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein determination of the correlation comprises a selection of alarms that occur rarely during the time period.
13. System according to claim 5, or any of claims 6-12 when dependent upon claim 5, wherein the one or more alarms comprises a plurality of alarms and wherein determination of the correlation comprises determination of an action to alarm matrix.
14. System according to claim 13, wherein determination of the correlation comprises a statistical inversion of the action to alarm matrix to determine a plurality of rules and associated probabilities, and wherein determination of the at least one recommended action comprises utilization of the plurality of rules and associated probabilities.
15. System according to claim 14, wherein the processing unit is configured to remove one or more rules that correspond to an alarm that triggers a significantly high number of rules, and wherein determination of the at least one recommended action comprises utilization of the plurality of rules and associated probabilities that remain after removal of the one or more rules.
16. System according to any of claims 14-15, wherein the processing unit is configured to apply a principal component analysis to filter most significant rules, and wherein determination of the at least one recommended action comprises utilization of the most significant rules.
17. System according to any of claims 1-16, wherein determination of the correlation comprises a utilization of natural language processing and word embeddings to obtain vectorial representations of information relating to the plurality of past actions and the information relating to the plurality of past process events, and wherein actions and events are determined to be correlated when related actions and events are mapped close together in feature space with respect to other mappings.
18. System according to any of claims 1-17, wherein determination of the correlation comprises utilization of a neural network.
19. A method for action determination, comprising: a) providing a processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past actions over a period of time associated with the operation of an industrial process; b) providing the processing unit with information relating to a plurality of past process events over the time period associated with the operation of the industrial process; c) providing the processing unit with information relating to a new process event; d) determining by the processing unit a correlation between at least some of the plurality of past actions provided at step a) with at least some of the past process events provided at step b); e) determining by the processing unit at least one recommended action from the information relating to the new process event provided at step c), the determination comprising utilization of the correlation determined at step d); and f) outputting by an output unit the at least one recommended action.
20. A computer program element for controlling a system apparatus according to any one of claims 1 to 18, which when executed by a processor is configured to carry out the method of claim 19.
21. Computer readable medium having stored the computer program element according to claim 20.
</claims>
</document>
