<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/11,G06F3/048,G06F3/0484,G06F3/16,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLATZ, John, L
MOON, Jay
RAMASWAMY, Pallavika
WEINSTEIN, Ari
MALTA, Andrew, William
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71434181
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
USER ACTIVITY SHORTCUT SUGGESTIONS
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and processes for accelerating task performance are provided. An example method includes, at an electronic device with a display, displaying a candidate shortcut affordance associated with a user activity, detecting a first set of inputs corresponding to a selection of the candidate shortcut affordance, in response to detecting the first set of inputs, displaying a first set of candidate task affordances, detecting a second set of inputs corresponding to a selection of a candidate task affordance associated with a first task, displaying a second set of candidate task affordances, detecting a third set of inputs corresponding to a selection of a candidate task affordance associated with a second task, and in response to detecting the second set of inputs and the third set of inputs, associating the first task and the second task with a task sequence for a voice shortcut corresponding to the user activity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating user-specific task sequences, the method comprising:
at an electronic device (800) with a display (801) and a touch-sensitive surface: displaying a plurality of candidate activity affordances (805, 806, 807) including a candidate activity affordance associated with a user activity; detecting a first set of inputs (808) corresponding to a selection of the candidate activity affordance; in response to detecting the first set of inputs, displaying a first set of candidate task affordances (812) associated with a first task type; detecting a second set of inputs (827) corresponding to a selection of a candidate task affordance (815) of the first set of candidate task affordances, wherein the selected candidate task affordance of the first set of candidate task affordances is associated with a first task; displaying a second set of candidate task affordances associated with a second task type; detecting a third set of inputs (847) corresponding to a selection of a second candidate task affordance (835) of the second set of candidate task affordances, wherein the selected second candidate task affordance of the second set of candidate task affordances is associated with a second task; and in response to detecting the second and third sets of inputs, associating the first task and the second task with a task sequence for a voice shortcut corresponding to the user activity.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:
in response to detecting the first set of user inputs: providing a query requesting contextual data associated with the user activity; and receiving a fourth set of inputs including the requested contextual data.
3. The method of any of claims 1-2, wherein the first set of candidate task affordances includes a first plurality of candidate task affordances corresponding to a first task and a second plurality of candidate task affordances corresponding to a second task.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein a first candidate task affordance of the first plurality of candidate task affordances is associated with the first task and a first parameter for the first task.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein a second candidate task affordance of the first plurality of candidate task affordances is associated with the first task and a second parameter for the first task.
6. The method of any of claims 1-5, wherein the first set of candidate task affordances and the second set of candidate task affordances are displayed on a first user interface.
7. The method of any of claims 1-6, wherein the first set of candidate task affordances are displayed on the first user interface, the method further comprising:
in response to detecting the second set of inputs, displaying a second user interface different from the first user interface, the second user interface including the second set of candidate task affordances.
8. The method of any of claims 1-7, further comprising: determining one or more tasks performed in a context that matches the contextual data associated with the user activity; and providing the first set of candidate task affordances including one or more candidate task affordances associated with the one or more tasks performed in the context that matches contextual data associated with the user activity.
9. The method of any of claims 1-8, further comprising: determining one or more tasks based on a received indication of tasks that are most commonly requested by a plurality of users while engaged in the user activity; and providing the first set of candidate task affordances including one or more candidate task affordances associated with the one or more tasks determined based on the indication of tasks that are most commonly requested by a plurality of users while engaged in the user activity.
10. The method of any of claims 1-9, wherein associating the first task and the second task with the voice shortcut corresponding to the user activity further comprises automatically associating a third task with the task sequence for the voice shortcut.
11. The method of any of claims 1-10, wherein associating the first task and the second task with the task sequence for the voice shortcut corresponding to the user activity further comprises associating context criteria corresponding to the user activity with the task sequence.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the context criteria corresponding to the user activity is determined based on contextual data associated with the user activity.
13. The method of any of claims 11-12, wherein the context criteria corresponding to the user activity is determined based on a set of inputs including the requested context data.
14. The method of any of claims 12-13, further comprising: in response to detecting the second and third sets of inputs displaying a suggestion mode interface including a suggestion mode affordance that when selected causes the electronic device to enable the suggestion mode for the task sequence; receiving a fifth set of inputs corresponding to a selection of the suggestion setting affordance; and in response to receiving the fifth set of inputs, enabling the suggestion mode for the task sequence.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the suggestion mode interface further includes a skip affordance that when selected causes the electronic device to forego enabling the suggestion mode for the task sequence, the method further comprising: receiving a sixth set of inputs corresponding to a selection of the skip affordance; and in response to receiving the sixth set of inputs, forgoing enabling the suggestion mode for the task sequence.
16. The method of claim 11-15, further comprising: receiving contextual data associated with the electronic device; determining, based on the received contextual data, whether the context criteria is satisfied; in accordance with a determination that the context criteria is satisfied, providing a suggestion affordance corresponding to the task sequence, which when selected causes the electronic device to perform the first task and the second task.
17. The method of any of claims 1-16, further comprising displaying a confirmation indicator confirming that the first task and the second task are associated with the task sequence.
18. The method of any of claims 1-17, further comprising: receiving a natural-language speech input; determining whether the natural-language speech input satisfies voice shortcut criteria for the voice shortcut; in accordance with a determination that the natural-language speech input satisfies the voice shortcut criteria for the voice shortcut, causing the electronic device to perform the first task and the second task associated with the task sequence.
19. An electronic device (800), comprising: one or more processors; a memory; and one or more programs, wherein the one or more programs are stored in the memory and configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for performing the methods of any one of claims 1-18.
20. A computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs, the one or more programs comprising instructions, which when executed by one or more processors of a first electronic device, cause the first electronic device to perform the methods of any one of claims 1-18.
</claims>
</document>
