<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/225,H04N5/369,H04N5/3745,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOZUKA, NORIAKI
MATSUI, AKIRA
MIYATANI, YOSHITAKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66664883
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
IMAGING DEVICE, IMAGING METHOD, AND IMAGING ELEMENT
</title>

<abstract>
The present technology relates to an imaging device, a method thereof, and an imaging element capable of controlling resolution of a detection image.Provided is a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light incident without intervention of either an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light, and a signal processing unit provided so as to be associated with an area in which at least two pixel output units out of the plurality of pixel output units are formed that processes signals read out from the pixel output units formed in the area and obtains output pixel values. The present disclosure may be applied to, for example, an imaging element, an imaging device, an image processing device, an electronic device, a system and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging device comprising: an imaging element provided with: a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light incident without intervention of either an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light; and a signal processing unit provided so as to be associated with an area in which at least two pixel output units out of the plurality of pixel output units are formed that processes signals read out from the pixel output units formed in the area and obtains output pixel values; and a readout control unit that selectively reads out the output pixel value of each pixel output unit of the imaging element.
2. An imaging method of selectively reading out an output pixel value of each pixel output unit of
an imaging element provided with: a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light incident without intervention of either an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light; and a signal processing unit provided so as to be associated with an area in which at least two pixel output units out of the plurality of pixel output units are formed that processes signals read out from the pixel output units formed in the area and obtains output pixel values.
3. An imaging element comprising: a plurality of pixel output units that receives incident light incident without intervention of either an imaging lens or a pinhole and each outputs one detection signal indicating an output pixel value modulated by an incident angle of the incident light; and a signal processing unit provided so as to be associated with an area in which at least two pixel output units out of the plurality of pixel output units are formed that processes signals read out from the pixel output units formed in the area and obtains output pixel values.
4. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein a signal is read out from a predetermined pixel output unit of a plurality of areas, and
each signal processing unit associated with each of the plurality of areas processes the signal read out from the pixel output unit of the area corresponding to the signal processing unit.
5. The imaging element according to claim 4,
wherein the pixel output unit of each area is the pixel output unit from which the signal is first read out in the area.
6. The imaging element according to claim 4,
wherein signal readout order of each pixel output unit in each area is the same.
7. The imaging element according to claim 4,
wherein an entire set of pixel output units of respective areas has an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to the incident angle of the incident light from a subject equivalent to the incident angle directivity of an entire pixel output unit group of a pixel region.
8. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein a signal is read out from each pixel output unit of a predetermined partial area out of a plurality of areas, and
a signal processing unit associated with the partial area processes the signal read out from each pixel output unit of the area corresponding to the signal processing unit.
9. The imaging element according to claim 8,
wherein an entire pixel output unit group of the area from which the signals are read out has an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to an incident angle of the incident light from a subject equivalent to the incident angle directivity of an entire pixel output unit group of a pixel region.
10. The imaging element according to claim 8,
wherein an entire pixel output unit group of the area from which the signals are read out has an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to an incident angle of the incident light from a subject different from the incident angle directivity of an entire pixel output unit group of a pixel region.
11. The imaging element according to claim 10,
wherein the incident angle directivity of each of all the pixel output units of the area from which the signals are read out is perpendicular to the pixel region.
12. The imaging element according to claim 10,
wherein a size of a field of view of an entire pixel output unit group of a predetermined area is different from a size of a field of view of an entire pixel output unit group of another area or the pixel region.
13. The imaging element according to claim 10,
wherein a direction of a field of view of an entire pixel output unit group of a predetermined area is different from a direction of a field of view of an entire pixel output unit group of another area or the pixel region.
14. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein a signal is read out from each pixel output unit of a plurality of areas, and
the signal processing unit associated with each of the plurality of areas processes the signal read out from each pixel output unit of the area corresponding to the signal processing unit.
15. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein the signal processing unit obtains the output pixel values by A/D converting the signals read out from the pixel output units of the area corresponding to the signal processing unit.
16. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein a configuration is a configuration capable of independently setting an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to the incident angle of the incident light from a subject of the output pixel value for each pixel output unit.
17. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein a configuration is a configuration capable of independently setting an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to the incident angle of the incident light from a subject for each pixel output unit.
18. The imaging element according to claim 3,
wherein the plurality of pixel output units is capable of independently setting an incident angle directivity indicating a directivity with respect to the incident angle of the incident light from a subject of the output pixel value for each pixel output unit by making photo diodes (PDs) contributing to an output different from each other.
</claims>
</document>
