<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F16C19/52,G01M13/045
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MALIK, VINCENT
NAIR, SUDEV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67070745
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
SYSTEM, APPARATUS AND METHOD OF DETERMINING CONDITION OF A BEARING
</title>

<abstract>
System, apparatus and method of determining condition of at least one bearing (810) in a system is disclosed. The method includes receiving operation data associated with the system from one or more sensing units associated with the system; determining an operation profile of the at least one bearing (810) from the operation data, wherein the operation profile includes at least one of a vibration response, a thermal response and a frequency response associated with the at least one bearing (810); determining an impact force profile during operation of the at least one bearing (810) based on the operation profile and a virtual bearing model (400, 600) trained on operation profiles and impact force profiles associated with a group of bearings comparable with the at least one bearing (810); and determining the condition of the at least one bearing (810) based on the impact force profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of determining condition of at least one bearing (810) in a system (800), the method comprising: receiving operation data associated with the system (800) from one or more sensing units associated with the system (800) ; determining an operation profile of the at least one bearing (810) from the operation data, wherein the operation profile includes at least one of a vibration response, a thermal response and a frequency response associated with the at least one bearing (810); determining an impact force profile during operation of the at least one bearing (810) based on the operation profile and a virtual bearing model (400, 600) trained on operation profiles and impact force profiles associated with a group of bearings comparable with the at least one bearing (810); and determining the condition of the at least one bearing (810) based on the impact force profile.
2. A computer implemented method of generating the virtual bearing model (400, 600), wherein generating the virtual bearing model (400, 600) comprising: determining test operation profiles based on test operation data associated with the group of bearings; simulating the predetermined defects on a predefined bearing model comprising dataset pursuant to dynamic load rating standards and rating life standards associated with the group of bearings; and generating simulated operation profiles associated with the group of bearings based on the simulation of the predetermined defects on the predefined bearing model;
wherein the test operation profiles and the simulated operation profiles include vibration response, thermal response and frequency response associated with the group of bearings.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein determining the test operation profiles based on the test operation data associated the group of bearings comprises: effecting one or more predetermined defects on one or more bearings in the group of bearings; operating systems including the bearings in one or more a system load conditions, wherein the system load conditions indicate a system load on the systems; and determining the test operation profiles associated the group of bearings for the system load conditions, the test operation profiles are generated based on the test operation data received from radial position, axial position and horizontal position.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein generating the virtual bearing model (400, 600) further comprises: determining simulated impact force from the test operation profiles and the simulated operation profiles; and generating stress distribution associated with the group of bearings based on the simulated impact force.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein determining the simulated impact force from the test operation profile and the simulated operation profile comprises:
predicting the simulated impact force based on the simulated operation profile and at least one mass of bearing ball, damping co-efficient and stiffness associated with the bearing, wherein the simulated impact force includes at least one of a steady component from steady-state movement of the bearings and a dynamic component associated with the predetermined defect.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein predicting the stress distribution associated with the group of bearings based on the simulated impact force further comprises: comparing the test operation profiles and the simulated operation profiles; updating the simulated impact force based on the comparison; generating the stress distribution based on the updated simulated impact force; and mapping the stress distribution to the predetermined defects using the at least one machine learning algorithm.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein updating the simulated impact force based on the comparison between the test operation profiles and the simulation operation profiles further comprises:
calibrating the updated simulated impact force associated with the group of bearings based on a difference between the test operation profiles and the simulated operation profiles using at least one machine learning algorithm.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the at least one machine learning algorithm is a differential evolutionary algorithm and wherein calibrating the updated simulated impact force associated with the group of bearings based on the difference between the test operation profiles and the simulated operation profiles using at least one machine learning algorithm comprises: defining upper stress limit and lower stress limit for the group of bearings; determining probable stress distribution within the upper stress limit and lower stress limit through one of a mutation and recombination operation, wherein the probable stress distribution determined for the difference; and selecting the stress distribution from the probable stress distribution using continuous function optimization based on impact force difference.
9. The method according to one of 2 to 8, wherein generating the virtual bearing model (400, 600) further comprising:
predicting a life of the bearings when subject to the predetermined defects based on at least one of bearing load, load zone, bearing clearance, lubrication viscosity and lubricant contamination associated with the one or more bearings in the group of bearings.
10. The method according to one of claims 1-9, further comprising: predicting a stress distribution associated with the at least one bearing (810) during operation of the at least one bearing (810), wherein the stress distribution is predicted based on the impact force profile of the at least one bearing (810) and the virtual bearing model (400, 600); and predicting a remaining life of the at least one bearing (810) based on the stress distribution and the predicted life using a neural network; wherein the neural network is configured to perform gradient descent optimization.
11. The method according to one of claims 1-10, wherein determining the condition of the at least one bearing (810) based on the impact force profile comprises: identifying defect in the at least one bearing (810) based on the impact force profile; and determining contamination condition of the lubricant in the at least one bearing (810),
wherein the defect is identified, and the contamination condition is determined by superimposing the operating profile of the at least one bearing (810) on the operating profiles in virtual bearing model (400, 600).
12. The method according to one of claims 1-11, wherein determining the condition of the at least one bearing (810) based on the impact force profile further comprises:
determining fatigue of the at least one bearing (810) with respect to at least one of lubricant temperature rise, foreign particles in the lubricant and reduction in oil film parameter of the lubricant based on the virtual bearing model (400, 600).
13. An apparatus for determining condition of at least one bearing (810) in a system (800), the apparatus comprising: one or more (822) processing units; and a memory unit (825) communicative coupled to the one or more processing units, wherein the memory unit comprises a bearing module (840) and a virtual bearing module (830) stored in the form of machine-readable instructions executable by the one or more processing units,
wherein the bearing module (840) is configured to perform one or more method steps according to claim 1 and claims 10-12, and
wherein the virtual bearing module (830) is configured to perform one or more method steps according to claims 2 to 9.
14. A system comprising: one or more devices capable of providing operation data associated with operation of one or more systems; and an apparatus according to claim 13, communicatively coupled to the one or more devices, wherein the apparatus is configured for determining condition of at least one bearing (810) in the one or more systems.
15. A computer-program product having machine-readable instructions stored therein, which when executed by one or more processing units, cause the one or more processing units to perform a method according to claims 1 to 12.
</claims>
</document>
