<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T3/40,G06T5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, Seungho
MOON, Youngsu
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68653415
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELECTRONIC APPARATUS AND IMAGE PROCESSING METHOD THEREOF
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus is disclosed. The electronic apparatus includes a memory storing at least one instruction, and a processor, electrically connected to the memory, configured to, by executing the instruction, obtain, from an input image, a noise map corresponding to the input image; provide the input image to an input layer of a learning network model including a plurality of layers, the learning network model being an artificial intelligence (AI) model that is obtained by learning, through an AI algorithm, a relationship between a plurality of sample images, a respective noise map of each of the plurality of sample images, and an original image corresponding to the plurality of sample images; provide the noise map to at least one intermediate layer among the plurality of layers; and obtain an output image based on a result from providing the input image and the noise map to the learning network model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus comprising: a memory storing one or more instructions; and a processor, electrically connected to the memory, and configured to execute the one or more instructions to: obtain, from an input image, a noise map corresponding to the input image; provide the input image to an input layer of a learning network model including a plurality of layers, the learning network model being an artificial intelligence (AI) model that is obtained by learning, through an AI algorithm, a relationship between a plurality of sample images, a respective noise map of each of the plurality of sample images, and an original image corresponding to the plurality of sample images; provide the noise map to at least one intermediate layer among the plurality of layers; and obtain an output image based on a result from providing the input image and the noise map to the learning network model.
2. The electronic apparatus of claim 1,
wherein the learning network model further comprises at least one sub-layer, and
wherein the processor is further configured to process the noise map using the at least one sub-layer, and provide the processed noise map to the at least one intermediate layer.
3. The electronic apparatus of claim 2,
wherein the processor is further configured to provide a plurality of channels corresponding to output data that is output from a previous layer of each of the at least one intermediate layer and an additional channel to each of the at least one intermediate layer, and
wherein the additional channel is the processed noise map that is output from a sub-layer, among the at least one sub-layer, corresponding to each of the at least one intermediate layer.
4. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 3,
wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the output image by mixing the input image and output data of an output layer among the plurality of layers.
5. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 4,
wherein the processor is further configured to obtain the noise map by providing the input image to a noise map generation model including a plurality of layers, and
wherein the noise map generation model is an AI model that is obtained by learning, through an AI algorithm, a relationship between the plurality of sample images and a respective noise map of each of the plurality of sample images.
6. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 5,
wherein the processor is further configured to provide the noise map to each of the plurality of layers or provide the noise map to each of remaining layers except the input layer among the plurality of layers.
7. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 6,
wherein the learning network model is an AI model obtained by learning, through the AI algorithm, a relationship between an output image that is obtained by sequentially processing, by the plurality of layers, each of the plurality of sample images provided to an input layer, among the plurality of layers, and a respective noise map of each of the plurality of sample images provided to the at least one intermediate layer and an original image corresponding to each of the plurality of sample images.
8. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 7,
wherein each of the plurality of sample images is a compression image in which an original image is compressed, and
wherein the noise map for the respective sample images is a noise map obtained from the respective sample images and an original image corresponding to the respective sample images.
9. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 8,
wherein the processor is further configured to obtain an output video in which a feature of the video is adjusted, by providing each of a plurality of frames included in the video to the learning network model as the input image.
10. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 9, further comprising: a display, wherein the processor is further configured to: convert a resolution of the output image based on the resolution of the display and control the display to display the output image with converted resolution, and wherein the output image with converted resolution is a 4K ultra high definition (UHD) image or an 8K UHD image.
11. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain an object region from the input image; adjust a feature of the object region by providing information on the object region to the learning network model, and obtain the output image based on the feature of the object region adjusted.
12. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 1 to claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain a background region from the input image; adjust a feature of the background region by providing information on the background region to the learning network model, and obtain the output image based on the feature of the background region adjusted.
13. The electronic apparatus of claim 11 or claim 12,
wherein the learning network model is a model for upscaling a resolution of an image.
14. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 11 to claim 13, wherein the learning network model is a model for de-noising an image.
15. An image processing method of an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: obtaining, from an input image, a noise map corresponding to the input image; providing an input image to an input layer among a plurality of layers included in a learning network model, the learning network model being an artificial intelligence (AI) model that is obtained by learning, through an AI algorithm, a relationship between a plurality of sample images, a respective noise map of each of the plurality of sample images, and an original image corresponding to the plurality of sample images; providing the noise map to at least one intermediate layer among the plurality of layers; and obtaining an output image based on a result from providing the input image and the noise map to the learning network model.
</claims>
</document>
