<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/10,G06F7/509,G06F7/544,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,G11C11/54,G11C7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STMICROELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESOLI, GIUSEPPE
CHAWLA, Nitin
ROY, Tanmoy
GROVER, Anuj
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70977455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ELEMENTS FOR IN-MEMORY COMPUTE
</title>

<abstract>
A memory array arranged in multiple columns and rows. Computation circuits that each calculate a computation value from cell values in a corresponding column. A column multiplexer cycles through multiple data lines that each corresponds to a computation circuit. Cluster cycle management circuitry determines a number of multiplexer cycles based on a number of columns storing data of a compute cluster. A sensing circuit obtains the computation values from the computation circuits via the column multiplexer as the column multiplexer cycles through the data lines. The sensing circuit combines the obtained computation values over the determined number of multiplexer cycles. A first clock may initiate the multiplexer to cycle through its data lines for the determined number of multiplexer cycles, and a second clock may initiate each individual cycle. The multiplexer or additional circuitry may be utilized to modify the order in which data is written to the columns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory array having a first plurality of cells arranged as a plurality of rows of cells intersecting a plurality of columns of cells; a plurality of first computation circuits where each first computation circuit, in operation, calculates a computation value from cell values in a corresponding column of cells in the first plurality of cells; a first column multiplexer, which, in operation, cycles through a plurality of data lines that each corresponds to a first computation circuit of the plurality of first computation circuits; a first sensing circuit, which, in operation, obtains the computation values from the plurality of first computation circuits via the first column multiplexer as the first column multiplexer cycles through the plurality of data lines and combines the obtained computation values over a determined number of multiplexer cycles; and cluster cycle management circuitry, which, in operation, determines the determined number of multiplexer cycles based on a number of columns storing data of a compute cluster.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the determined number of multiplexer cycles is less than a plurality of physical data lines of the first column multiplexer.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein a computation value is a partial sum of cell values in a corresponding column and the first sensing circuit, in operation, calculates a first sum from the obtained partial sums via a first set of the plurality of data lines during a first set of cycles of the first column multiplexer and calculates a second sum from the obtained partial sums via a second set of the plurality of data lines during a second set of cycles of the first column multiplexer, wherein the first and second sets of cycles have the determined number of multiplexer cycles.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the first column multiplexer, in operation, cycles through a second plurality of data lines that each corresponds to a respective second computation circuit of a plurality of second computation circuits, where each second computation circuit calculates a partial sum from cell values in a corresponding column of cells in a second plurality of cells.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the second plurality of data lines for the first column multiplexer are provided by a second column multiplexer.
6. The system of claim 1, comprising: a plurality of second computation circuits where each second computation circuit, in operation, calculates a computation value from cell values in a corresponding column of cells in a second plurality of cells of the memory array; a second column multiplexer, which, in operation, cycles through a plurality of data lines that each corresponds to a second computation circuit of the plurality of second computation circuits; and a second sensing circuit, which, in operation, obtains the computation values from the plurality of second computation circuits via the second column multiplexer as the second column multiplexer cycles through the plurality of data lines and combines the obtained computation values over the determined number of multiplexer cycles.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein,
the cluster cycle management circuitry, which, in operation, generates a plurality of control signals in response to a clock signal and provides the plurality of control signals to the first sensing circuit and to the first column multiplexer to cycle through the plurality of data lines for the determined number of multiplexer cycles for the first sensing circuit to obtain the computation values from the corresponding first computation circuits.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first column multiplexer, in operation, modifies an address of each of the plurality of data lines of the first column multiplexer to write consecutive pluralities of data to the first plurality of cells.
9. The system of claim 1, comprising:
data-line-selection circuitry, which, in operation, selects different cycle orders through the plurality of data lines of the first column multiplexer to write consecutive pluralities of data to the first plurality of cells.
10. A method, comprising: storing data in a plurality of memory cells that are arranged as a plurality of rows of cells intersecting a plurality of columns of cells; computing a plurality of compute values from cell values from the plurality of columns of cells, wherein each respective compute value is computed from cells values from a respective column of cells; determining a number of columns in the plurality of columns of cells storing data for a data compute cluster; selecting a number of multiplexer cycles based on the determined number of columns; generating a result of the data compute cluster by employing a column multiplexer to cycle through a first subset of the plurality of compute values for the selected number of multiplexer cycles and by employing a sensing engine to combine the respective compute values from the first subset of compute values; and outputting the result of the data compute cluster.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising: generating a second result of the data compute cluster by employing a second column multiplexer to cycle through a second subset of the plurality of compute values for the selected number of multiplexer cycles and by employing a second sensing engine to combine the respective compute values from the second subset of compute values; and outputting the second result of the data compute cluster.
12. The method of claim 10, comprising: generating a second result of the data compute cluster by employing the column multiplexer to cycle through a second subset of the plurality of compute values for the selected number of multiplexer cycles and by employing the sensing engine to combine the respective compute values from the second subset of compute values; and outputting the second result of the data compute cluster.
13. The method of claim 10, comprising:
modifying a number of data lines utilized by the column multiplexer based on the selected number of multiplexer cycles for the data compute cluster.
14. The method of claim 10, comprising: initiating the column multiplexer to cycle through the first subset of compute values for the selected number of multiplexer cycles in response to a non-memory clock signal; and initiating each cycle for each data line of the column multiplexer for the selected number of multiplexer cycles to obtain the first subset of compute values in response to memory clock signals.
15. The method of claim 10, comprising:
modifying an address of each of a plurality of data lines of the column multiplexer for writing consecutive pluralities of data to the first plurality of cells.
16. The method of claim 10, comprising:
selecting different cycle orders for the column multiplexer to cycle through the plurality of columns of cells for writing consecutive pluralities of data to the plurality of cells.
17. A computing device, comprising: means for storing data in a plurality of cells that are arranged as a plurality of rows of cells intersecting a plurality of columns of cells; means for computing respective computation values from cell values from each respective column of the plurality of columns of cells; means for determining a compute-cluster-cycle size based on a number of columns in the plurality of columns of cells storing data for a data compute cluster; means for cycling through respective computation values for the determined compute-cluster-cycle size; and means for combining the respective computation values to generate a result of the data compute cluster for the determined compute-cluster-cycle size.
18. The computing device of claim 17, comprising: means for initiating the cycling through the respective computation values for the determined compute-cluster-cycle size; and means for initiating each cycle for each respective computation value for the determined compute-cluster-cycle size.
19. The computing device of claim 17, comprising:
means for modifying an order in which data is stored in the plurality of columns of cells for writing consecutive pluralities of data to the plurality of cells.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having contents which cause cluster cycle management circuitry to perform actions, the actions comprising: storing data in a plurality of memory cells that are arranged as a plurality of rows of cells intersecting a plurality of columns of cells; determining a number of columns in the plurality of columns of cells that store data for a compute operation; selecting a number of multiplexer cycles based on the determined number of columns; generating a result of the compute operation by employing a column multiplexer to cycle through a first subset of the plurality of columns of cells for the selected number of multiplexer cycles and by employing a sensing engine to combine the values from the first subset of columns of cells; and outputting the result of the compute operation.
</claims>
</document>
