<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC LABORATORIES EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Li, Xi
Salvat Lozano, Josep Xavier
Garcia-Saavedra, Andres
Costa-Pérez, Xavier
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69591549
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ANOMALY DETECTION AND TROUBLESHOOTING SYSTEM FOR A NETWORK USING MACHINE LEARNING AND/OR ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
</title>

<abstract>
A method for anomaly detection and troubleshooting in a network includes parsing a network service descriptor (NSD) describing a network service (NS) to be deployed in the network. Monitoring data including time series of service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of network functions (NFs) of the NS are received from different domains of the network. Representations of the time series from the different domains are learned with a common dimensionality. An NS signature of the NS is computed as a cross-correlation matrix comprising cross-correlations between the service-level metrics and the resource-level metrics of the NFs. Embeddings of the NS signature are learned using a model and determining a reconstruction error of the model. It is determined whether the NS is anomalous based on the reconstruction error of the model. The NS is identified as a target for the troubleshooting in a case that the NS was determined to be anomalous.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for anomaly detection and troubleshooting in a network, comprising: parsing a network service descriptor, NSD, describing a network service, NS, to be deployed in the network; receiving monitoring data including time series of service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of network functions, NFs, of the NS from different domains of the network; learning representations of the time series from the different domains with a common dimensionality so as to match different time scales of the time series; computing an NS signature of the NS as a cross-correlation matrix comprising cross-correlations between the service-level metrics and the resource-level metrics of the NFs; learning embeddings of the NS signature using a model and determining a reconstruction error of the model; determining whether the NS is anomalous based on the reconstruction error of the model; and identifying the NS as a target for the troubleshooting in a case that the NS was determined to be anomalous.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising adding contextual information to the NS signature.
3. The method according to claim 1 or 2, further comprising configuring domain controllers of the different domains of the network based on the NSD to monitor the service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of the NFs of the NS.
4. The method according to any of claims 1 to 3, wherein the representations of the time series are learned by auto-encoders, each of the auto-encoders having been trained to learn a respective one of the representations of a respective one of the time series with the common dimensionality such that a higher-dimensional representation is learned for time series having a longer timescale relative to the common dimensionality and lower-dimensional representation is learned for time series having a shorter timescale relative to the common dimensionality.
5. The method according to any of claims 1 to 4, further comprising classifying the anomalous NS into a type of problem based on the reconstruction error of the model and a supervised learning algorithm using prior knowledge of reconstruction errors associated to known problem types.
6. The method according to any of claims 1 to 5, wherein the model is trained to learn the embeddings in three different levels including an embedding of the NS signature per NF, a shared embedding of the NFs per domain of the network, and a shared embedding of all the NFs of the NS.
7. The method according to any of claims 1 to 6, further comprising identifying anomalies per network slice.
8. The method according to any of claims 1 to 7, wherein computing the NS signature further comprises: computing cross-correlations within the time series of the resource-level metrics of a same one of the NFs; computing cross-correlations between the service-level metrics and the resource-level metrics of the same one of the NFs; computing cross-correlations within the time series of the service-level metrics of the NFs; and computing long-term dependencies of each of the time series.
9. The method according to any of claims 1 to 8, further comprising ranking the reconstruction error of the NS with reconstruction errors of other NSs, and using the ranking to identify hardware logs and configuration files for inspection.
10. The method according to any of claims 1 to 9, further comprising training the model using reconstruction errors from NSs which have undergone the troubleshooting.
11. The method according to any of claims 1 to 10, wherein the NS signature is computed for different size windows of time.
12. A computer system for anomaly detection and troubleshooting in a network, the system comprising memory and one or more processors which, alone or in combination, are configured to provide for execution of a method comprising: parsing a network service descriptor, NSD, describing a network service, NS, to be deployed in the network; receiving monitoring data including time series of service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of network functions, NFs, of the NS from different domains of the network; learning representations of the time series from the different domains with a common dimensionality so as to match different time scales of the time series; computing an NS signature of the NS as a cross-correlation matrix comprising cross-correlations between the service-level metrics and the resource-level metrics of the NFs; learning embeddings of the NS signature using a model and determining a reconstruction error of the model; determining whether the NS is anomalous based on the reconstruction error of the model; and identifying the NS as a target for the troubleshooting in a case that the NS was determined to be anomalous.
13. The system according to claim 12, further comprising a troubleshooting classifier trained to classify the anomalous NS into a type of problem based on the reconstruction error of the model, the troubleshooting classifier having been trained by a supervised learning algorithm using prior knowledge of reconstruction errors associated to known problem types.
14. The system according to claim 12 or 13, further comprising a monitor controller having access to the NSD and being operable to configure domain controllers of the different domains of the network based on the NSD to monitor the service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of the NFs of the NS.
15. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions thereon, which upon execution by one or more processors, alone or in combination, provide for execution of a method for anomaly detection and troubleshooting in a network comprising: parsing a network service descriptor, NSD, describing a network service, NS, to be deployed in the network; receiving monitoring data including time series of service-level metrics and resource-level metrics of network functions, NFs, of the NS from different domains of the network; learning representations of the time series from the different domains with a common dimensionality so as to match different time scales of the time series; computing an NS signature of the NS as a cross-correlation matrix comprising cross-correlations between the service-level metrics and the resource-level metrics of the NFs; learning embeddings of the NS signature using a model and determining a reconstruction error of the model; determining whether the NS is anomalous based on the reconstruction error of the model; and identifying the NS as a target for the troubleshooting in a case that the NS was determined to be anomalous.
</claims>
</document>
