<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B62D5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLVO CAR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HÄLL, Carl-Johan
JOHANSSON, Henrik
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66951799
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC END-STOPS FOR ELECTRIC POWER STEERING
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed subject matter generally relates to a method for controlling an electrically powered steering assistance system including an electric motor for providing assisting torque to an axle of a vehicle such that impact between a wheel and the wheel housing can be prevented. Electrically powered steering assist systems include an electric motor for providing an assist steering torque to the steerable wheels of the vehicle. The electrical current used by the electric motor has a typical dependence with the amount of output torque from the motor. The electrical current of the electrical current used by the electric motor exhibits distinguishable characteristics when the wheels reach the end stop in the wheel housing. By monitoring the electrical current used by the electric motor for providing the assisting torque it is possible to determine that the wheels have reached the end-stop.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling an electrically powered steering assistance system including an electric motor for providing assisting steering torque to steerable wheels of a vehicle, the method comprising: monitoring an electrical current used by the electric motor for providing the assisting torque, in response to identifying an electrical current characteristic in the monitored electrical current that matches a pre-determined model electrical current characteristic associated with that a steerable wheel has reached a steering end stop in a wheel housing, controlling the electric motor to reduce the provided assisting steering torque.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the provided assisting torque is provided to cause a travel of a steering rack connected to the steerable wheels of the vehicle for turning the wheels, wherein the reduction in the provided assisting torque is such that the travel of the steering rack is limited to not travel beyond the present position of the steering rack when the matching electrical current characteristic was identified.
3. The method according to any one of claims 1 or 2, wherein the provided assisting steering torque is reduced to substantially zero.
4. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic is based on a prior analysis of data indicative of a plurality of electrical current characteristics that occurred when the travel of a steering rack connected to the steerable wheels reached a steering end stop.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic is modelled by a machine learning algorithm.
6. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic includes at least one of an electrical current gradient that exceeds an electrical current gradient threshold, and an electrical current that exceeds an electrical current magnitude threshold.
7. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic is based on analyzing to the electrical current used by the electric motor with regards to the revolution rate of the electric motor.
8. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic includes a deviation from a linear relationship of the electrical current used by the motor with regards an increasing revolution rate of the electric motor.
9. The method according to any one of the preceding claims, wherein identifying that an electrical current characteristic in the monitored electrical current matches a pre-determined model electrical current characteristic includes applying a machine learning algorithm to the monitored electrical current.
10. The method according to anyone of the preceding claims, comprising:
subsequent to reducing the provided assisting torque, controlling the electric motor to provide a counter-torque.
11. The method according to any one of claims 1 to 10, wherein the electrical current is continuously monitored over a time period when the vehicle is operative, or wherein monitoring the electrical current is triggered by a steering torque input by the driver, or by that a steering angle exceeds an initial threshold angle, and/or by that a steering angle exceeds an initial threshold angle.
12. An electrically powered steering assistance system for a vehicle, the system comprising: an electric motor connectable to a steering rack of an axle of a vehicle for providing an assist steering torque to steerable wheels of the axle, and a control unit configured to: monitor an electrical current used by the electric motor for providing the assisting torque, in response to identifying an electrical current characteristic in the monitored electrical current that matches a pre-determined model electrical current characteristic associated with that a steerable wheel has reached a steering end stop in a wheel housing, control the electric motor to reduce the provided assisting steering torque.
13. A vehicle comprising a system according to claim 12.
14. A control unit arranged to control an electrically powered steering assistance system including an electric motor for providing assisting torque to steerable wheels of a vehicle, wherein the control unit is configured to: monitor an electrical current used by the electric motor for providing the assisting steering torque, in response to identifying an electrical current characteristic in the monitored electrical current that matches a pre-determined model electrical current characteristic associated with that a steerable wheel has reached a steering end stop in a wheel housing, control the electric motor to reduce the provided assisting steering torque.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer program means for controlling an electric motor of an electrically powered steering assistance system for providing assisting steering torque to steerable wheels of a vehicle, wherein the computer program product comprises: code for identifying an electrical current characteristic in a monitored electrical current used by the electric motor for providing the assisting steering torque, and code for determining that the electrical current characteristic matches a pre-determined model electrical current characteristic associated with that a steerable wheel has reached a steering end stop in a wheel housing, and code for, in response to that the electrical current characteristic matches the pre-determined model electrical current characteristic, controlling the electric motor to reduce the provided assisting steering torque.
</claims>
</document>
