<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F1/18,A63F11/00,A63F3/00,A63F9/24,G06Q50/10,G06Q50/34,G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANGEL PLAYING CARDS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIGETA, YASUSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57943119
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM FOR TABLE GAMES
</title>

<abstract>
A detection system according to the present invention includes a control device detecting fraud performed in a game table by using a result of an image analysis performed by an image analyzing device, and substitute currency for gaming used for this detection system has a multi-layer structure in which a plurality of plastic layers having different colors are stacked, a coloring layer (121) is included at least in the middle, and white layers (122) or thin-color layers (maybe layers having a color thinner than that of the coloring layer (121); not illustrated in the drawing) are stacked on both sides of the coloring layer (121) disposed in the middle. A multi-layer structure, in which a coloring layer (121) is included, and white layers (122) or thin-color layers (while not illustrated in the drawing, the layers may be layers of a color that is thinner than that of the coloring layer (121)) are stacked on both sides of the coloring layer (121) of this middle, is employed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Amanagement system of a table game, the management system comprising: a card distributing device that determines and displays a result of winning/losing of each game in a game table; a measurement device that measures types and quantities of substitute currency for gaming placed on the game table by using a camera; and a management control device that specifies and stores a position, types, and quantities of the substitute currency for gaming placed on the game table by a game participant by using a result of the measurement performed by the measurement device in each game, wherein the substitute currency for gaming forms a stripe pattern on a side face in a stacking direction by employing a multi-layer structure in which a plurality of plastic layers having different colors are stacked, a coloring layer is included at least in the middle, and white layers or thin-color layers are stacked on both sides of the coloring layer disposed in the middle, and has a configuration enabling the type of the substitute currency for gaming to be specified by the coloring layer, and the management control device has a calculation function of determining the game participant as a winner/loser in each game and calculating a balance of a casino side on the game table for each game by using the result of winning/losing acquired from the card distributing device and the result of the measurement of the position, the types, and the quantities of the substitute currency for gaming placed by the game participant.
2. The management system of a table game according to claim 1, wherein the management control device has a function of determining the quantity of the substitute currency for gaming by measuring the numbers of the coloring layers or white layers or thin-color layers of the substitute currency for gaming placed by each game participant.
3. The management system of a table game according to claim 1 or 2, the management system further comprising a chip tray that holds the substitute currency for gaming for each type, wherein the management control device is configured to be able to measure a total amount of the substitute currency for gaming disposed on the chip tray by measuring the types and the quantities of the substitute currency for gaming disposed on the chip tray.
4. Substitute currency for gaming, wherein a plurality of plastic layers having different colors are stacked, a coloring layer is included at least in the middle, and white layers or thin-color layers are stacked on both sides of the coloring layer to form a stripe pattern on a side face in a stacking direction,
the substitute currency for gaming comprising a configuration enabling a type of the substitute currency for gaming to be specified by the coloring layer.
5. The substitute currency for gaming according to claim 4, comprising a structure having at least five layers in which print representing a type of the substitute currency for gaming is applied to a surface of the white layer or the thin-color layer, a transparent layer is provided as an outermost layer, and each interlayer is compressed by heat.
6. The substitute currency for gaming according to claim 4 or 5, wherein a mark is formed using UV ink or carbon black ink on the surface of the white layer or the thin-color layer.
7. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 4 to 6, wherein embossing processing is performed for the transparent layer of the outermost layer.
8. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 4 to 7, wherein R processing is performed for an end of the transparent layer of the outermost layer.
9. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 4 to 8, wherein the coloring layer is formed by a plurality of layers.
10. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 4 to 9, wherein an RFID is built in the coloring layer.
11. An inspection device inspecting the substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claim 4 to 10, the inspection device comprising: a passage including an inlet and an output through which the substitute currency for gaming canpass in a radial direction; a chip type determining device that determines a color of the stripe in the stacking direction of the side face by imaging the side face of the substitute currency for gaming passing through the passage; a mark reading device that reads a mark, which is formed using the UV ink or carbon black ink on the surface of the passing substitute currency for gaming; a print inspecting device that reads a print representing the type arranged on the surface of the substitute currency for gaming in a vertical direction with respect to the passage; and a control device of the whole device, wherein the control device is configured to inspect whether or not the chip type determined by the chip type determining device matches a content of the print representing the type acquired by the print inspecting device.
12. A management system of substitute currency for gaming, the management system comprising: substitute currency for gaming to which a unique ID that can be individually identified is attached; an ID reading device that reads a unique ID attached to the substitute currency for gaming; a storage in which the substitute currency for gaming is stored in a cashier of a game house; a game table chip tray in which the substitute currency for gaming is stored on a game table; a chip determining device that specifies types and quantities of the substitute currency for gaming stored in the game table chip tray and the storage by using the ID reading device; and a management control device that manages the IDs associated with the substitute currency for gaming in a database in the game house, wherein the management control device has functions of: registering the IDs of the substitute currency for gaming to be used in the database in advance; managing the IDs of the substitute currency for gaming present at least in the game table chip tray and the storage together with presence information by using the database; specifying the substitute currency for gaming in the game table chip tray and the storage at predetermined timing; searching the database; determining following events through the database search, 1) an ID not present in the database is newly present, 2) two or more same IDs are present; and generating an error signal when a situation of 1) or 2) described above is present.
13. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to claim 12, wherein
the management control device further has functions capable of : when there is a change in the presence of the substitute currency for gaming at least in the game table chip tray or the storage, recording time or a place at which there is the change in association with the ID in the database;
searching the database, and when there is the situation in which two or more same IDs are present, extracting the ID and information of the time or the place recorded in association with the ID in the database from the database and storing the extracted information; and
specifying time when the substitute currency for gaming to which the ID is attached, which is detected first, enters/exits the game table chip tray or the storage or a place of the game table chip tray or the storage in which the substitute currency for gaming is stored.
14. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to claim 12 or 13, the management system further comprising: a bet area determining device that specifies the types and quantities of the substitute currency for gaming bet on a bet area of the game table by using the ID reading device; functions of determining the following events through a search of the database also for the ID of the substitute currency for gaming present in the bet area of the game table, 1) an ID that has not been present in the database is newly present, 2) presence of two or more same IDs; and generating an error signal when there is a situation of 1) or 2) described above.
15. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 14, wherein the unique IDs are attached to at least three positions on the side face of the substitute currency for gaming.
16. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 15, wherein the unique IDs are attached through inkjet printing by using ink that is visible in visible light.
17. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 16, wherein the unique IDs are attached through inkjet printing by using ink that is invisible in visible light.
18. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 17, wherein the unique ID is attached as presence/absence of marks of a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns.
19. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 18, wherein a transparent coating layer or varnish is disposed on the side face of the substitute currency for gaming.
20. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 19, wherein the unique ID is an RFID.
21. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 20, wherein
the substitute currency for gaming has a configuration in which the unique ID is attached to the side face through inkjet printing and an RFID is built, and
the management control device has a function of enabling to manage ID information of the ID attached to the side face associated with ID information of the RFID in a database.
22. The management system of substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 12 to 21, wherein substitute currency for gaming forms a stripe pattern on the side face in a stacking direction by employing a multi-layer structure in which a plurality of plastic layers having different colors are stacked, a coloring layer is included at least in one layer, and white layers or thin-color layers are stacked on a further outer side than the coloring layer, and has a configuration enabling the type of the substitute currency for gaming to be specified by the coloring layer.
23. Substitute currency for gaming, comprising a configuration in which unique IDs are attached to at least three positions on a side face of a white layer and a thin-color layer, a type and manufacturing information of the substitute currency for gaming can be specified by reading the ID by using an ID reading device, and the ID can be managed in a database.
24. The substitute currency for gaming according to claim 23, wherein the unique IDs are attached through inkjet printing by using ink that is visible in visible light.
25. The substitute currency for gaming according to claim 23 or 24, wherein the unique IDs are attached through inkjet printing by using ink that is invisible in visible light.
26. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 23 to 25, wherein the unique ID is attached as presence/absence of marks of a plurality of rows and a plurality of columns.
27. The substitute currency for gaming according to any one of claims 23 to 26, wherein a transparent coating layer or varnish is disposed on the side face of the substitute currency for gaming.
28. Substitute currency for gaming, wherein
a unique ID that can be individually identified is attached,
the unique ID attached to the substitute currency for gaming is read by an ID reading device,
the ID reading device can read the substitute currency for gaming stored in a storage held by a cashier of a game house and a game table chip tray of a game table,
types and quantities of the substitute currency for gaming stored in the game table chip tray and the storage are specified by a chip type determining device via the ID reading device,
the ID of the substitute currency for gaming present in the game table chip tray and the storage is managed together with presence information by using a database,
the ID, by which at least following events are examined: 1) an ID not present in the database is newly present; and 2) two or more same IDs are present, and an occurrence of a situation of 1) or 2) described above can be determined, is provided.
</claims>
</document>
