<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A61B5/11,A61K39/12,A61P37/00,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRANSFUSION HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
Cotari, Jesse
Rebo, Justin
Jacobson, Stuart Alexander
Webb, Timothy
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57834668
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
ENHANCING VACCINATION RESPONSE
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable storage media for constructing a clinically-derived and personalized blood cell mobilization prediction models, enhancing the understanding of a blood tests by excluding the contemporary effect of the contemporary activity from the contemporary blood sample data, optimizing a vaccine by maximizing a concentration of a collection of immune cells which interact with the collection of antigens present in the vaccine can be prescribed, and enhancing the reliability of activity data by accounting for inconsistencies, gaps in data, etc. that is collected from telemetric devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of optimizing a vaccine comprising: identifying a collection of antigens present in a vaccine; constructing, for an individual, a personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model using a clinically-derived blood cell mobilization prediction model and a set of collected individual data; prescribing, using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model and the identified collection of antigens present in a vaccine, an activity regimen for maximizing a concentration of a collection of immune cells which interact with the collection of antigens present in the vaccine, wherein the activity regimen is divided into a plurality of phases over a period of time; receiving activity data for the individual from each of the phases; receiving contemporary blood sample data after an administration of a blood test for the individual; detecting, using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model, that the received activity data deviates from the activity regimen to a predetermined threshold degree; and transmitting, to a user device, an instruction that is effective to cause the user device to display an alert for suggesting that the individual change activity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of phases over a period of time comprise at least one of: a pre-priming phase beginning fifty-four hours prior to vaccination; a priming phase beginning six hours prior to the vaccination; a treatment phase at the time of the vaccination; and a post-treatment enhancement phase beginning immediately after the treatment phase and lasting six hours after the vaccination.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one of the pre-priming phase, the priming phase, the treatment phase, and the post-treatment enhancing phase further comprises generating real-time feedback by: receiving the activity data from at least one sensor comprising a heart rate sensor, a motion sensor, an accelerometer, a global positioning system (GPS) device, an electrocardiogram (EKG) sensor, and a galvanic skin response sensor; using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model to determine that the activity data deviates from the suggested activity regimen for the at least one of the pre-priming phase, the priming phase, the treatment phase, and the post-treatment enhancing phase to the predetermined threshold degree; and transmitting the instruction to the user device that is effective to cause the user device to display the alert to suggest that the individual change activity.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising receiving the activity data from the at least one sensor and determining the activity data to represent one of a malfunction and an improper removal of the at least one sensor, and receiving the activity data from a secondary device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the secondary device comprises a smartphone having the accelerometer and the global positioning system (GPS) device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity data comprises primary activity data, the method of claim 1 further comprising determining that the primary activity data includes at least one inconsistency and receiving secondary activity data from a secondary source that represents the primary activity data, the secondary activity data lacking the at least one inconsistency.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the primary activity data is heart rate, the at least one inconsistency is missing data due to removal or malfunction of an individual's heart rate monitor watch and receiving secondary activity data from a secondary source is receiving data from a GPS device and accelerometer.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of phases over a period of time comprise: a pre-priming phase fifty-four hours prior to the vaccine, wherein the activity regimen in the pre-priming phase comprises telemetric tracking of heartrate data; a priming phase six hours prior to the vaccination, wherein the activity regimen in the priming phase comprises local, controlled, computer-assisted activity tracking; a treatment phase at the time of vaccination, wherein the activity regimen in the treatment phase comprises one or more of a immunotherapy therapy technique and an immunomodulatory therapy technique; and a post-treatment enhancement phase six hours after the treatment, wherein the activity regimen in the post-treatment enhancement phase comprises additional telemetric tracking of heartrate data and transmission of an instruction to a user device that is effective to cause the user device to display an alert for suggesting that the individual change activity upon detecting, using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model, that the heartrate data deviates from a suggested heartrate to a predetermined threshold degree.
9. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions thereon that when executed by the at least one processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising: identifying a collection of antigens present in a vaccine; constructing, for an individual, a personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model using a clinically-derived blood cell mobilization prediction model and a set of collected individual data; prescribing, using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model and the identified collection of antigens present in a vaccine, an activity regimen for maximizing a concentration of a collection of immune cells which interact with the collection of antigens present in the vaccine, wherein the activity regimen is divided into a plurality of phases over a period of time; receiving activity data for the individual from each of the phases; receiving contemporary blood sample data after an administration of a blood test for the individual; detecting, using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model, that the received activity data deviates from the activity regimen to a predetermined threshold degree; and transmitting, to a user device, an instruction that is effective to cause the user device to display an alert for suggesting that the individual change activity.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the plurality of phases over a period of time comprise: a pre-priming phase beginning fifty-four hours prior to vaccination; a priming phase beginning six hours prior to the vaccination; a treatment phase at the time of the vaccination; and a post-treatment enhancement phase beginning immediately after the treatment phase and lasting six hours after the vaccination.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one of the pre-priming phase, the priming phase, the treatment phase, and the post-treatment enhancing phase further comprises generating real-time feedback by: receiving the activity data from at least one sensor comprising a heart rate sensor, a motion sensor, an accelerometer, a global positioning system (GPS) device, an electrocardiogram (EKG) sensor, and a galvanic skin response sensor; using the personalized blood cell mobilization prediction model to determine that the activity data deviates from the suggested activity regimen for the at least one of the pre-priming phase, the priming phase, the treatment phase, and the post-treatment enhancing phase to the predetermined threshold degree; and transmitting the instruction to the user device that is effective to cause the user device to display the alert to suggest that the individual change activity.
12. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising receiving the activity data from the at least one sensor and determining the activity data to represent one of a malfunction and improper removal of the at least one sensor, and receiving the activity data from a secondary device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the secondary device comprises a smartphone having the accelerometer and the global positioning system (GPS) device.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the activity data comprises primary activity data, the operations further comprising determining that the primary activity data includes at least one inconsistency and receiving secondary activity data from a secondary source that represents the primary activity data, the secondary activity data lacking the at least one inconsistency.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the primary activity data is heart rate, the at least one inconsistency is missing data due to removal or malfunction of an individual's heart rate monitor watch and receiving secondary activity data from a secondary source is receiving data from a GPS device and accelerometer.
</claims>
</document>
