<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02,A61B5/0205,A61B5/024,A61B5/0402,A61B5/145,A61B5/1455,A61B5/1495
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BSX ATHLETICS
LVL TECHNOLOGIES & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
XAVIER DA SILVEIRA, PAULO E.
RAJAN, NITHIN O.
FRECKLETON, DUSTIN M.
OLSON, BYRON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57393720
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device and method for determining biological indicator levels in tissue
</title>

<abstract>
A device configured to determine a biological indicator level in tissue. The device includes at least one emitter configured to emit light, a detector configured to receive light and transmit data representative of the received light and a processor coupled to the at least one emitter and the detector. The device further includes a non-transitory storage medium coupled to the processor and configured to store instruction to cause the device to determine a level of a biological indicator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device configured to determine a biological indicator, the device comprising: at least two emitters having at least one light emitting element, the at least two emitters configured to emit light; a detector configured to receive light and transmit data representative of the received light, the detector being spaced from each of the at least two emitters by different distances; a processor coupled to the at least two emitters and the detector; a non-transitory storage medium coupled to the processor and configured to store instructions to cause the device to: emit a first light from one of the at least two emitters at a first predetermined current; detect at least a portion of the first emitted light at the detector; obtain a first calibration factor, from the non-transitory storage medium, corresponding to the first predetermined current; generate a first optical density corresponding to the first calibration factor; emit a second light from another one of the at least two emitters at the first predetermined current; detect at least a portion of the second emitted light at the detector; obtain a second calibration factor, from the non-transitory storage medium, corresponding to the first predetermined current; generate a second optical density corresponding to the second calibration factor; convert the first optical density and the second optical density to an effective attenuation coefficient based on a separation of the one of the at least two emitters and the another one of the at least two emitters; determine a level of a biological indicator from the effective attenuation coefficient.
2. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the non-transitory storage medium further comprises instructions causing the processor to: calculate a relative match between the detected light and a predetermined spectral data set of one or more chromophores corresponding to the biological indicator; and estimate a level of the biological indicator based on the calculated relative match.
3. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the relative match is calculated between the detected light and the predetermined spectral data set representative of the one or more chromophores using one or more of inner products, vector projections, direction cosines, and a pseudo-inverse projection method.
4. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the effective attenuation coefficient is calculated from the equation: 0.192 ΔOD−0.098, where ΔOD=ODfar−ODnear, where ODfar is the optical density corresponding to emitter spaced farther from the detector and the ODnear is the optical density corresponding to the emitter spaced nearer the detector.
5. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the predetermined spectral data set is an absorption coefficient, and wherein the detected light is converted from an effective attenuation coefficient into the absorption coefficient by combining the effective attenuation coefficient with a known reduced scattering coefficient.
6. The device as recited in claim 5, wherein a modulus of a residual of a fit of a projection onto a matrix containing a spectra representative of a predetermined data set of one or more chromophores is determined.
7. The device as recited in claim 5, wherein the relative match of a spectral data set representative of received light and a null space for a matrix containing the spectra representative of a predetermined data set of one or more chromophores is determined.
8. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the one or more chromophores comprises one or more of hemoglobin, myoglobin, cytochrome c, water, lipids, melanins, glucose or metabolites.
9. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein hemoglobin comprises at least one of oxyhemoglobin, deoxyhemoglobin, and total hemoglobin.
10. The device as recited in claim 9, wherein the total hemoglobin and the water is further utilized to determine perfusion characteristics of one or more of hemoglobin concentration, pulsatile rhythm, blood volume, vascular tone, muscular tone, and angiogenesis.
11. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein myoglobin comprises at least one of oxymyoglobin, deoxymyoglobin, and total myoglobin.
12. The device as recited in claim 8, wherein metabolites comprises at least one of lactate and lactic acid.
13. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the one or more chromophores comprises water and the water is further utilized to measure a hydration level.
14. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the non-transitory storage medium is further configured to store instructions to cause the processor to calculate a relative ratio of the one or more chromophores.
15. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the non-transitory storage medium is further configured to store instructions to cause the processor to calculate a relative addition of the one or more chromophores.
16. The device as recited in claim 2, wherein the non-transitory storage medium is further configured to store instructions to cause the processor to extract data associated with the one or more chromophores from data representative of the detected light.
17. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least two emitters are configured to emit at least three wavelengths of light or at least three ranges of wavelengths.
18. The device as recited in claim 1, wherein the biological indicator comprises at least one of a relative percentage, a saturation level, an absolute concentration, a rate of change, an index relative to training threshold, and a threshold.
19. A method configured to determine a biological indicator, the method comprising: emitting a first light from one of at least two emitters at a first predetermined current; detecting at least a portion of the first emitted light at a detector; obtaining a first calibration factor, from the non-transitory storage medium, corresponding to the predetermined current; generating a first optical density corresponding to the first calibration factor; emitting a second light from another one of the at least two emitters at the first predetermined current; detecting at least a portion of the second emitted light at the detector, the detector being spaced from each of the at least two emitters by different distances; obtaining a second calibration factor, from the non-transitory storage medium, corresponding to the predetermined current; generating a second optical density corresponding to the second calibration factor; converting the first optical density and the second optical density to an effective attenuation based on a separation of the one of the at least two emitters and the another one of the at least two emitters; generating a biological indicator from the effective attenuation.
</claims>
</document>
