<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F21/56,G06F21/57,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHELLER, MICAH
CORNELIUS, CORY
HUANG YONGHONG
WANG, SHIH-HAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65231833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques to detect perturbation attacks with an actor-critic framework
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments discussed herein may be generally directed to systems and techniques to generate a quality score based on an observation and an action caused by an actor agent during a testing phase. Embodiments also include determining a temporal difference between the quality score and a previous quality score based on a previous observation and a previous action, determining whether the temporal difference exceeds a threshold value, and generating an attack indication in response to determining the temporal difference exceeds the threshold value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: memory to store instructions; and processing circuitry coupled with the memory: an actor agent, executable by the processing circuitry, to cause an action in a processing environment based on an observation during a testing phase; a critic agent, executable by the processing circuitry, to: generate a quality score based on the observation and the action caused by the actor agent during the testing phase; and a temporal difference detector, executable by the processing circuitry, to: determine a temporal difference between the quality score and a previous quality score based on a previous observation and a previous action, determine whether the temporal difference exceeds a threshold value, generate an attack indication in response to determining the temporal difference exceeds the threshold value, and permit processing of a next observation and a next action in response to determining the temporal difference does not exceed the threshold value.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the attack indication to indicate an occurrence of an attack via an input in the processing environment, the attack comprising one or more of a Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) attack and a random attack.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the actor agent to cause a series of actions including the action and the previous action, and the critic agent to determine a sequence of quality scores based on each action of the series of actions and an associated observation for each action.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, the critic agent to determine temporal differences between quality scores of consecutive actions of the series of actions and the associated observations.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, the critic agent to: determine whether each of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value; permit the actor agent to cause a next action in the processing environment in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences does not exceed the threshold value; and generate an attack indication and prohibit the actor agent from causing a next action, in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the critic agent to perform a training phase prior to generating the quality score and generating the quality score during the testing phase.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, the critic agent to train the actor agent during the training phase using temporal difference learning.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising one or more sensor devices to generate data for the processing environment, the sensor devices comprising at least one of a camera, a laser range finder, a radio detection and ranging (RADAR) device, a global positioning system (GPS) device, an ultrasonic device, a sound detection and ranging (SONAR) device, an altimeter, a gyroscope, a tachymeter, and an accelerometer.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising: a storage to store a sequence of quality scores including the quality score, each quality score of the sequence of quality scores utilized to determine a temporal difference.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a quality score based on an observation and an action caused by an actor agent during a testing phase, the action performed in a processing environment based on the observation; determining a temporal difference between the quality score and a previous quality score based on a previous observation and a previous action; determining whether the temporal difference exceeds a threshold value; generating an attack indication in response to determining the temporal difference exceeds the threshold value; and permitting processing of a next observation and a next action in response to determining the temporal difference does not exceed the threshold value.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the attack indication indicates an occurrence of an attack via an input in the processing environment, the attack comprising one or more of a Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) attack and a random attack.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, comprising: causing a series of actions including the action and the previous action; and determining a sequence of quality scores based on each action of the series of actions and an associated observation for each action.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, comprising determining temporal differences between quality scores of consecutive actions of the series of actions and the associated observations.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, comprising: determining whether each of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value; permitting a next action in the processing environment in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences does not exceed the threshold value; and generating an attack indication and prohibiting a next action, in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, comprising performing a training phase prior to generating the quality score and generating the quality score during the testing phase.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, comprising performing the training during the training phase using temporal difference learning.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, comprising receiving data from one or more sensor devices in the processing environment, the sensor devices comprising at least one of a camera, a laser range finder, a radio detection and ranging (RADAR) device, a global positioning system (GPS) device, an ultrasonic device, a sound detection and ranging (SONAR) device, an altimeter, a gyroscope, a tachymeter, and an accelerometer.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable medium containing instructions, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations to: generate a quality score based on an observation and an action caused by an actor agent during a testing phase, the action performed in a processing environment based on the observation; determine a temporal difference between the quality score and a previous quality score based on a previous observation and a previous action; determine whether the temporal difference exceeds a threshold value; generate an attack indication in response to determining the temporal difference exceeds the threshold value; and permit processing of a next observation and a next action in response to determining the temporal difference does not exceed the threshold value.
19. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the attack indication indicates an occurrence of an attack via an input in the processing environment, the attack comprising one or more of a Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM) attack and a random attack.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise operations to: cause a series of actions including the action and the previous action; and determine a sequence of quality scores based on each action of the series of actions and an associated observation for each action.
21. The machine-readable medium of claim 20, wherein the operations further comprise operations to determine temporal differences between quality scores of consecutive actions of the series of actions and the associated observations.
22. The machine-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise operations to: determine whether each of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value; permit a next action in the processing environment in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences does not exceed the threshold value; and generate an attack indication and prohibiting a next action, in response to determining a temporal difference of the temporal differences exceeds the threshold value.
23. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise operations to perform a training phase prior to generating the quality score and generating the quality score during the testing phase.
24. The machine-readable medium of claim 23, wherein the operations further comprise operations to perform the training during the training phase using temporal difference learning.
25. The machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise operations to receive data from one or more sensor devices in the processing environment, the sensor devices comprising at least one of a camera, a laser range finder, a radio detection and ranging (RADAR) device, a global positioning system (GPS) device, an ultrasonic device, a sound detection and ranging (SONAR) device, an altimeter, a gyroscope, a tachymeter, and an accelerometer.
</claims>
</document>
