<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/16,G06F11/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELUCA,LISA SEACAT
PICKOVER, CLIFFORD A.
PRICE, DANA L.
QUIRK, AARON J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64095843
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive progress indicator
</title>

<abstract>
A status indicator provides a graphical representation of progress of a task to a user. A cognitive state of the user is detected by a computer operatively coupled to one or more sensors or cameras. The progress indicator is automatically modified by the computer in response to detecting the cognitive state of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for representing a status indicator, the method comprising: providing, by the computer, a graphical representation of the status indicator on a user interface display, wherein the status indicator is indicative of a progression of a task from a commencement of the task to a completion of the task while the task is being performed; detecting, by the computer, a cognitive state of the user, said user cognitive state being inferred based on performing an assessment of entries in the user's electronic calendar that indicate a potential fatigue; and modifying, by the computer, the status indicator in response to said detecting the cognitive state, said modifying the status indicator comprising applying a mathematical transformation of a level of progress displayed by the status indicator, the mathematical transformation comprising a first derivative of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator or a logarithmic function of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: using one or more sensors or cameras operatively coupled to the computer for detecting a further cognitive state comprising at least one of fatigue, frustration, anger, happiness, surprise, and a level of distraction.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein said detecting the cognitive state further comprises detecting a cognitive state of a user cohort, said user cohort selected from a group consisting of autism, a child, an elderly individual, an individual suffering from a cognitive impairment due to a neurodegenerative disease, or a cognitive style, said modifying being based on associating progress bars with different user cohorts.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein said detecting the cognitive state further comprises inferring the cognitive state based on information in at least one of a user profile, feedback received from a caregiver, and a user demographic.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein said modifying the status indicator in response to said detecting the cognitive state, further comprises: modifying one or more graphical attributes of the status indicator, a moving shape, a change in shape, a rotating shape, or a change in a speed of rotation of a rotating shape.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving feedback; modifying the status indicator in response to said receiving feedback; and iteratively learning and communicating said learning in response to said modifying.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6 wherein said iteratively learning and communicating said learning in response to said modifying, further comprises applying said learning from a present user to a subsequent user in a specific user cohort; and presenting a modified status indicator to the subsequent user.
8. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having a computer-readable program stored therein, wherein the computer-readable program, when executed on a computer including at least one processor, causes the computer to: provide a graphical representation of a status indicator on a user interface display, wherein the status indicator is indicative of a progression of a task from a commencement of the task to a completion of the task while the task is being performed; detect a cognitive state of the user, said user cognitive state being inferred based on performing an assessment of entries in the user's electronic calendar that indicate a potential fatigue; and modify the status indicator in response to said detecting the cognitive state, said modifying the status indicator comprising applying a mathematical transformation of a level of progress displayed by the status indicator, the mathematical transformation comprising a first derivative of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator or a logarithmic function of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator.
9. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein said computer is further caused to: use one or more sensors or cameras operatively coupled to the at least one processor for detecting a further cognitive state comprising at least one of fatigue, frustration, anger, happiness, surprise, and a level of distraction.
10. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein said detecting the cognitive state further comprises detecting a cognitive state of a user cohort, said user cohort selected from a group consisting of autism, a child, an elderly individual, an individual suffering from a cognitive impairment due to a neurodegenerative disease, or a cognitive style, wherein said computer-readable program causes the computer to modify based on associating progress bars with different user cohorts.
11. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein said detecting the cognitive state further comprises inferring the cognitive state based on information in at least one of a user profile, feedback received from a caregiver, and a user demographic.
12. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein said modifying the status indicator in response to said detecting the cognitive state, further comprises: modifying one or more graphical attributes of the status indicator, a moving shape, a change in shape, a rotating shape, or a change in a speed of rotation of a rotating shape.
13. The computer program product of claim 8 further configured for: receiving feedback; modifying the status indicator in response to said receiving feedback; and iteratively learning and communicating said learning in response to said modifying.
14. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein said iteratively learning and communicating said learning in response to said modifying, further comprises applying said learning from a present user to a subsequent user in a specific user cohort; and presenting a modified status indicator to the subsequent user.
15. A system comprising at least one processor and a memory coupled to the at least one processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: provide a graphical representation of a status indicator on a user interface display, wherein the status indicator is indicative of a progression of a task from a commencement of the task to a completion of the task while the task is being performed; detect a cognitive state of the user, said user cognitive state being inferred based on performing an assessment of entries in the user's electronic calendar that indicate a potential fatigue; and modify the status indicator in response to said detecting the cognitive state, said modifying the status indicator comprising applying a mathematical transformation of a level of progress displayed by the status indicator, the mathematical transformation comprising a first derivative of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator or a logarithmic function of the level of progress displayed by the status indicator.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising one or more sensors or cameras, operatively coupled to the at least one processor, wherein said one or more sensors or cameras are configured for detecting a further cognitive state comprising at least one of fatigue, frustration, anger, happiness, surprise, and a level of distraction.
17. The system of claim 15 wherein said detecting the cognitive state further comprises detecting a cognitive state of a user cohort, said user cohort selected from a group consisting of autism, a child, an elderly individual, an individual suffering from a cognitive impairment due to a neurodegenerative disease, or a cognitive style, wherein to modify, said instructions further configuring said at least one processor to: associate progress bars with different user cohorts.
</claims>
</document>
