<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C27/04,B64D1/22,B66C13/06,B66C13/30,B66C7/08,B66C9/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUMMATION LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KALE, CHRISTOPHER BRANDEN
MARONEY, JAMES CORNELIUS
SANCHEZ, ADAM JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63672126
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for slung load stabilization
</title>

<abstract>
A hoist support system includes a rail assembly having a rail along which a motor assembly is translatable by actuation of a motor of the motor assembly. The motor assembly is adapted to support a hoist and is communicatively coupled to a control system. The control system is adapted to measure motion of a slung load coupled to the hoist and to determine whether and to what extent the slung load is swinging or otherwise unstable. In response to such measurements, the control system transmits control signals to the motor of the motor assembly to change the position of the motor assembly along the rail and attenuate the motion of the slung load.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hoist support system comprising: a rail assembly comprising a rail, the rail including each of an upper and a lower groove extending along the length of the rail; a motor assembly comprising a motor and a plurality of wheels, the motor assembly configured to support a hoist and to be moveable along the rail by activating the motor, each wheel of the plurality of wheels disposed within one of the upper and the lower groove; a control system communicatively coupled to the motor; and a motion sensor communicatively coupled to the control system and configured to generate motion signals corresponding to movement of a slung load; wherein the control system is configured to: receive the motion signals from the motion sensor; determine a motion of the slung load based on the motion signals; and transmit a motor control signal to actuate the motor based on the motion of the slung load, wherein actuation of the motor causes repositioning of the motor assembly along the rail.
2. The hoist support system of claim 1, wherein the rail assembly is coupleable to a vehicle fuselage by an External Stores Support System (ESSS).
3. The hoist support system of claim 1, wherein the motion sensor is a 9-axis motion sensor comprising each of a triaxial accelerometer, a triaxial gyroscope, and a triaxial geomagnetic sensor.
4. The hoist support system of claim 1, wherein the rail assembly comprises a rack coupled to and extending along the rail, and the motor assembly comprises a pinion coupled to an output shaft of the motor, the pinion mated with the rack such that actuation of the motor causes rotation of the pinion and translation of the motor assembly along the rack.
5. The hoist support system of claim 1, wherein the rail assembly is adapted to be indirectly coupled to a fuselage of a vehicle by a mounting structure, the mounting structure comprising: a truss structure comprising a plurality of truss elements; and a plurality of mounting features coupled to the truss structure, the plurality of mounting features configured to be received and coupled to corresponding features of a body of the vehicle.
6. The hoist support system of claim 5, wherein the truss structure includes at least one adjustable member including a mounting feature of the plurality of mounting features, the adjustable member adapted to adjustably extend from the truss structure.
7. The hoist support system of claim 5, wherein the rail defines an internal channel and the mounting structure includes a plurality of rail tabs received within the channel.
8. The hoist support system of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of rail tabs includes a boss projecting from the rail tab and the channel includes a plurality of indentations shaped to receive the bosses of the plurality of rail tabs.
9. The hoist support system of claim 1 further comprising a hoist coupled to the motor assembly.
10. A hoist support system for use with a helicopter and coupleable to a fuselage of the helicopter, the hoist support system comprising: a rail mountable to the fuselage, the rail including each of an upper and a lower groove extending along the length of the rail; a motor assembly comprising a motor and a plurality of wheels, the motor assembly translatable along the rail by actuation of the motor, each wheel of the plurality of wheels disposed within one of the upper and the lower groove; and a control system communicatively coupled to the motor, the control system configured to receive measurements associated with motion of a slung load of the helicopter and to selectively actuate the motor in response to the motion associated with the slung load, thereby translating the motor assembly along the rail.
11. The hoist support system of claim 10 further comprising a truss coupled to the rail, the truss configured to be coupled to the fuselage such that the rail is supported along the fuselage.
12. The hoist support system of claim 10 further comprising a hoist coupled to the motor assembly.
13. A hoist support system comprising: a rail assembly comprising a rail, the rail assembly adapted to be indirectly coupled to a fuselage of a vehicle by a mounting structure, the mounting structure comprising: a truss structure comprising a plurality of truss elements; and a plurality of mounting features coupled to the truss structure, the plurality of mounting features configured to be received and coupled to corresponding features of a body of the vehicle; a motor assembly comprising a motor, the motor assembly configured to support a hoist and to be moveable along the rail by activating the motor; a control system communicatively coupled to the motor; and a motion sensor communicatively coupled to the control system and configured to generate motion signals corresponding to movement of a slung load; wherein: the control system is configured to: receive the motion signals from the motion sensor; determine a motion of the slung load based on the motion signals; and transmit a motor control signal to actuate the motor based on the motion of the slung load, wherein actuation of the motor causes repositioning of the motor assembly along the rail, and the rail defines an internal channel, and the mounting structure includes a plurality of rail tabs received within the channel.
14. The hoist support system of claim 13, wherein the rail assembly is coupleable to a vehicle fuselage by an External Stores Support System (ESSS).
15. The hoist support system of claim 13, wherein the motion sensor is a 9-axis motion sensor comprising each of a triaxial accelerometer, a triaxial gyroscope, and a triaxial geomagnetic sensor.
16. The hoist support system of claim 13, wherein the rail assembly comprises a rack coupled to and extending along the rail, and the motor assembly comprises a pinion coupled to an output shaft of the motor, the pinion mated with the rack such that actuation of the motor causes rotation of the pinion and translation of the motor assembly along the rack.
17. The hoist support system of claim 13, wherein the truss structure includes at least one adjustable member including a mounting feature of the plurality of mounting features, the adjustable member adapted to adjustably extend from the truss structure.
18. The hoist support system of claim 13, wherein each of the plurality of rail tabs includes a boss projecting from the rail tab and the channel includes a plurality of indentations shaped to receive the bosses of the plurality of rail tabs.
19. The hoist support system of claim 13 further comprising a hoist coupled to the motor assembly.
</claims>
</document>
