<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-02-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/0402,A61B5/0408,A61B5/044,A61B5/08,A61B5/083,A61B5/11,A61B5/145,A61H31/00,A61N1/04,A61N1/39,G09B19/00,G09B23/28,G16H20/40,G16H40/63,G16H50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ZOLL MEDICAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BURES, MARTIN, E.
FREEMAN, GARY A.
GEHEB, FREDERICK, J.
SILVER, ANNEMARIE
TAN QING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45090797
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Defibrillator charging
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods related to the field of cardiac resuscitation, and in particular to devices for assisting rescuers in performing cardio-pulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An external defibrillator comprising: a processor; a defibrillator pulse generator operatively connected to the processor and configured to generate a defibrillating shock; and electrode pads configured to be operatively connected to the defibrillator pulse generator and the processor to deliver the defibrillating shock from the defibrillator pulse generator to the patient, the electrode pads further configured to deliver one or more ECG signals from the patient to the processor, wherein the processor is programmed to: analyze one or more electrocardiogram (ECG) signals from the patient during delivery of chest compressions to the patient; determine appropriateness of delivering a shock to the patient based on the analysis of the one or more ECG signals during the delivery of chest compressions of a CPR interval; determine that the chest compressions of the CPR interval have been completed; analyze one or more ECG signals acquired in an absence of chest compressions within about 5 seconds after cessation of the chest compressions of the CPR interval to confirm the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient; and provide an indication on a display screen of a recommendation of providing a shock to the patient based on the determined appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient.
2. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the processor is programmed to provide the indication on the display screen of the recommendation of providing the shock to the patient based on the confirmed appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient from the analysis of the one or more ECG signals acquired in the absence of chest compressions.
3. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the analysis of the one or more ECG signals acquired in an absence of chest compressions occurs within about 3 seconds after the cessation of the chest compressions of the CPR interval.
4. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the analysis of the one or more ECG signals acquired in an absence of chest compressions occurs within about 1 second after the cessation of the chest compressions of the CPR interval.
5. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein a duration of the CPR interval is preset in the processor.
6. The external defibrillator of claim 5, wherein the duration of the CPR interval is about two minutes.
7. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the processor is programmed to provide instructions to cease chest compressions once the CPR interval has been completed.
8. The external defibrillator of claim 7, wherein the instructions comprise an output for a rescuer to cease manual compressions once the CPR interval has been completed.
9. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the defibrillator pulse generator comprises a capacitor electrically connected to an electrical energy storage source.
10. The external defibrillator of claim 9, wherein the processor is programmed to charge the capacitor during delivery of the chest compressions of the CPR interval to the patient.
11. The external defibrillator of claim 9, further comprising one or more safety interlocks to prevent accidental discharge of the capacitor during charging of the capacitor.
12. The external defibrillator of claim 9, wherein the processor is programmed to cause the capacitor to dissipate a charge if the analysis of the one or more ECG signals acquired in the absence of chest compressions does not confirm the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient.
13. The external defibrillator of claim 9, wherein the processor is programmed to, based on the analysis of the one or more ECG signals, determine whether to charge the capacitor or to provide instructions to continue the chest compressions of the CPR interval without charging the capacitor.
14. The external defibrillator of claim 9, wherein the processor is programmed to, based on the analysis of the one or more ECG signals, determine whether to provide instructions to continue the chest compressions of the CPR interval.
15. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the electrode pads comprise adhesive material for adhering to the patient.
16. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein determining the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient during delivery of the chest compressions of the CPR interval to the patient comprises determining a level of certainty of whether the shock is appropriate, the level of certainty being one of at least a low level of certainty and a high level of certainty.
17. The external defibrillator of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to provide the indication of the recommendation of providing the shock to the patient immediately after cessation of chest compressions when reaching a high enough level of certainty of appropriateness of delivering the shock.
18. The external defibrillator of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to confirm the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient based on the analysis of the one or more ECG signals acquired in the absence of chest compressions when the level of certainty of appropriateness of delivering the shock is insufficient.
19. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein a duration of the CPR interval is variable based on analysis of the one or more ECG signals by the processor.
20. The external defibrillator of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to control the defibrillator pulse generator to deliver the shock to the patient based at least in part on the confirmation of the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient.
21. The external defibrillator of claim 1, further comprising a therapy button configured to cause the defibrillator pulse generator to deliver the defibrillating shock to the patient.
22. The external defibrillator of claim 21, further comprising a safety interlock for controlling enablement of the therapy button that causes the defibrillator pulse generator to deliver the defibrillating shock to the patient.
23. The external defibrillator of claim 22, wherein the processor is programmed to disable the safety interlock so as to enable the therapy button to cause the defibrillator pulse generator to deliver the defibrillating shock to the patient.
24. The external defibrillator of claim 23, wherein the processor is programmed to disable the safety interlock based on the confirmed appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient.
25. The external defibrillator of claim 1, further comprising: circuitry for detection of chest compressions delivered to the patient.
26. The external defibrillator of claim 25, wherein the processor is programmed to determine that the chest compressions of the CPR interval have been completed based on a signal from the circuitry for detection of chest compressions delivered to the patient.
27. A method for providing electrical therapy to a patient, the method comprising: analyzing one or more electrocardiogram (ECG) signals from the patient during delivery of chest compressions of a CPR interval to the patient; determining appropriateness of delivering a shock to the patient based on the analysis of the one or more ECG signals during the delivery of the chest compressions; determining that chest compressions of the CPR interval have been completed; after the chest compressions of the CPR interval have been completed, analyzing one or more ECG signals to confirm the appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient within about 5 seconds after a rescuer has completed the chest compressions of the CPR interval; and providing an indication on a display device of a recommendation of providing a shock to the patient based on the determined appropriateness of delivering the shock to the patient.
28. The method of claim 27, further comprising setting a duration of the CPR interval.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the duration of the CPR interval is preset.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the duration of the CPR interval is about two minutes.
31. The method of claim 27, further comprising providing an indication to the rescuer that the CPR interval is completed.
</claims>
</document>
