<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CONFLUERA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ABHIJIT
KIM, EUN-GYU
MUKHERJEE, NILOY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285184
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and system for tracking security risks over infrastructure
</title>

<abstract>
A novel enterprise security solution allows for precise interception and surgical response to attack progression, in real time, as it occurs across a distributed infrastructure. The solution includes a data monitoring and management framework that continually models system level host and network activities as mutually exclusive infrastructure wide execution sequences and bucketizes them into unique execution trails. A multimodal intelligent security middleware detects indicators of compromise in real-time on top of subsets of each unique execution trail using rule based behavioral analytics, machine learning based anomaly detection, and other sources. Each detection result dynamically contributes to aggregated risk scores at execution trail level granularities. These scores can be used to prioritize and identify highest risk attack trails to end users, along with steps that such end users can perform to mitigate further damage and progression of an attack.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for tracking security risks over infrastructure, the method comprising: monitoring, by a plurality of software agents deployed on respective operating systems in an infrastructure, system level activities associated with the respective operating systems; constructing, based on the system level activities, an execution graph comprising a plurality of execution trails, each execution trail having an associated risk score; determining that an influence relationship exists between a first one of the execution trails and a second one of the execution trails; and modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail based on the influence relationship and the first execution trail, wherein modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail comprises calculating a weighted moving average using, as input, the risk score associated with the second execution trail and a risk score associated with an artifact in the first execution trail.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the execution graph comprises a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, wherein each node represents an entity comprising a process or an artifact, and wherein each edge represents an event associated with an entity.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each execution trail represents a single intent or a single unit of work.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the influence relationship exists comprises determining that the second execution trail has performed an action with respect to an artifact in the first execution trail.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the artifact comprises a file created in the first execution trail, and wherein the action comprises (i) executing the file or (ii) opening the file.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein constructing the execution graph comprises constructing the first execution trail, and wherein constructing the first execution trail comprises: identifying creation or modification of an artifact in the first execution trail; and calculating a risk score for the artifact based on the risk score associated with the first execution trail.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein calculating the risk score for the artifact is further based on a risk momentum value comprising a combination of risk scores associated with preceding execution trails linked to the first execution trail.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the risk score for the artifact is calculated as a sum of the risk score associated with the first execution trail and the risk momentum value, multiplied by a weighting factor.
9. A system for tracking security risks over infrastructure, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, program the processor to perform the operations of: monitoring, by a plurality of software agents deployed on respective operating systems in an infrastructure, system level activities associated with the respective operating systems; constructing, based on the system level activities, an execution graph comprising a plurality of execution trails, each execution trail having an associated risk score; determining that an influence relationship exists between a first one of the execution trails and a second one of the execution trails; and modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail based on the influence relationship and the first execution trail, wherein modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail comprises calculating a weighted moving average using, as input, the risk score associated with the second execution trail and a risk score associated with an artifact in the first execution trail.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the execution graph comprises a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, wherein each node represents an entity comprising a process or an artifact, and wherein each edge represents an event associated with an entity.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein each execution trail represents a single intent or a single unit of work.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein determining that the influence relationship exists comprises determining that the second execution trail has performed an action with respect to an artifact in the first execution trail.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the artifact comprises a file created in the first execution trail, and wherein the action comprises (i) executing the file or (ii) opening the file.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein constructing the execution graph comprises constructing the first execution trail, and wherein constructing the first execution trail comprises: identifying creation or modification of an artifact in the first execution trail; and calculating a risk score for the artifact based on the risk score associated with the first execution trail.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein calculating the risk score for the artifact is further based on a risk momentum value comprising a combination of risk scores associated with preceding execution trails linked to the first execution trail.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the risk score for the artifact is calculated as a sum of the risk score associated with the first execution trail and the risk momentum value, multiplied by a weighting factor.
17. A computer-implemented method for tracking security risks over infrastructure, the method comprising: monitoring, by a plurality of software agents deployed on respective operating systems in an infrastructure, system level activities associated with the respective operating systems; constructing, based on the system level activities, an execution graph comprising a plurality of execution trails, each execution trail having an associated risk score, wherein constructing the execution graph comprises constructing a first one of the execution trails, wherein constructing the first execution trail comprises: identifying creation or modification of an artifact in the first execution trail; and calculating a risk score for the artifact based on (i) the risk score associated with the first execution trail and (ii) a risk momentum value comprising a combination of one or more risk scores associated with one or more preceding execution trails linked to the first execution trail, wherein the risk score for the artifact is calculated as a sum of the risk score associated with the first execution trail and the risk momentum value, multiplied by a weighting factor; determining that an influence relationship exists between the first execution trail and a second one of the execution trails; and modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail based on the influence relationship and the first execution trail.
18. A system for tracking security risks over infrastructure, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, program the processor to perform the operations of: monitoring, by a plurality of software agents deployed on respective operating systems in an infrastructure, system level activities associated with the respective operating systems; constructing, based on the system level activities, an execution graph comprising a plurality of execution trails, each execution trail having an associated risk score, wherein constructing the execution graph comprises constructing a first one of the execution trails, wherein constructing the first execution trail comprises: identifying creation or modification of an artifact in the first execution trail; and calculating a risk score for the artifact based on (i) the risk score associated with the first execution trail and (ii) a risk momentum value comprising a combination of one or more risk scores associated with one or more preceding execution trails linked to the first execution trail, wherein the risk score for the artifact is calculated as a sum of the risk score associated with the first execution trail and the risk momentum value, multiplied by a weighting factor; determining that an influence relationship exists between the first execution trail and a second one of the execution trails; and modifying the risk score associated with the second execution trail based on the influence relationship and the first execution trail.
</claims>
</document>
