<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/9535,G06F16/955,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHANNA, VARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65234648
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Accuracy determination for media
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for determining accuracy for media are disclosed. In one aspect, a method includes identifying a data segment of an electronic data object that is encoding one or more assertions including a first assertion, compiling a search query based on the one or more assertions, generating search results by conducting a first information search using the search query, identifying a most recent time associated with a search result of the search results that relates to the first assertion, generating an accuracy weighting for the first assertion based on search result, and annotating the first assertion based on the accuracy weighting to indicate the assertion's accuracy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of annotating electronic data content with an accuracy indication of the electronic data content, the method comprising: identifying an assertion, having a subject and an object, in the electronic data content; compiling a search query based on the subject of the assertion; conducting a search based on the search query; obtaining a plurality of search results from the search; identifying a search result of the plurality of search results that includes information related to the object of the assertion; generating the accuracy indication for the assertion based on whether the information corroborates the assertion; and annotating the assertion based on the accuracy indication to provide an annotated assertion.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the data segment of assertion in the electronic data content comprises generating a first tuple including the subject, a relation, and the object, the first tuple representing the first assertion, and wherein the compiling of the search query comprises generating the search query including the subject and the relation of the first tuple.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the generating of the accuracy indication for the assertion comprises: generating a second tuple, including a subject, a relation, and an object, from a selected search result of the plurality of search results, the selected search result having a most recent associated time of the plurality of search results; comparing the object in the first tuple to the object in the second tuple; and generating the accuracy indication based on the comparison.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising conveying updated electronic data content including the annotated assertion in response to a request for the electronic data content.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the annotating of the first assertion comprises inserting the accuracy indication in the electronic data content including one or more of audio data, image data, or text data, the inserted accuracy indication including an accuracy weighting, wherein the inserted accuracy indication further includes the information derived from a selected search result of the plurality of search results, the selected search result having a most recent associated time of the plurality of search results.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the annotating of the first assertion comprises: comparing the accuracy indication to a threshold; and in response to the accuracy indication being less than the threshold, relocating the assertion from a first position in the electronic data content to a second position in the electronic data content, the second position being subsequent to the first position in a viewing sequence of the electronic data content.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising causing display of a user interface including a representation of the electronic data content, the user interface configured to provide for a selection of the representation, the user interface further including a representation of the accuracy indication.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the user interface is further configured to sort a respective plurality of representations of the plurality of search results based on a corresponding plurality of accuracy indications of respective assertions in the plurality of search results.
9. An apparatus for annotating electronic data content with an accuracy indication of the electronic data content, the apparatus comprising: one or more hardware processors, configured to: identify an assertion, having a subject and an object, in the electronic data content; compile a search query based on the subject of the assertion; conduct a search based on the search query; obtain a plurality of search results from the search; identify a search result of the plurality of search results that includes information related to the object of the assertion; generate the accuracy indication for the assertion based on whether the information corroborates the assertion; and annotate the assertion based on the accuracy indication to provide an annotated assertion.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to to generate a first tuple including the subject, a relation, and the object, the first tuple representing the assertion.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to include the subject and the relation of the first tuple in the compiled search query.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to: generate a second tuple from a selected search result of the plurality of search results, the selected search result having a most recent associated time of the plurality of search results; compare the object in the first tuple to the object in the second tuple; and generate the accuracy indication based on the comparison.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to convey updated electronic data content including the annotated assertion in response to a request for the electronic data content.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to insert an accuracy weighting as the accuracy indication in the electronic data content including one or more of audio data, image data, or text data.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the inserted accuracy weighting further indicates information derived from a selected search result of the plurality of search results, the selected search result having a the most recent associated time of the plurality of search results.
16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to: compare the accuracy indication to a threshold; and in response to the accuracy indication being less than the threshold, relocate the assertion from a first position in the electronic data content to a second position in the electronic data content, the second position being subsequent to the first position in a viewing sequence of the electronic data content.
17. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to cause display of a user interface including a representation of the electronic data content, the user interface configured to provide for a selection of the representation, the user interface further including a representation of the accuracy indication, wherein the user interface is further configured to sort a respective plurality of representations of the plurality of search results based on a corresponding plurality of accuracy indications of respective assertions in the plurality of search results.
18. An apparatus for annotating an electronic data content with an accuracy indication of the electronic data content, the apparatus comprising: means for identifying an assertion, having a subject and an object, in the electronic data content; means for compiling a search query based on the subject of the assertion; means for conducting a search based on the search query; means for obtaining a plurality of search results from the search; means for identifying a search result of the plurality of search results that includes information related to the object of the assertion; means for generating the accuracy indication for the assertion based on whether the information corroborates the assertion; and means for annotating the assertion based on the accuracy indication to provide an annotated assertion.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the means for identifying the assertion in the electronic data content includes means for generating a first tuple including the subject, a relation, and the object, the first tuple representing the assertion.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the means for generating the accuracy indication for the assertion comprises: means for generating a second tuple, including a subject, a relation, and an object, from a selected search result of the plurality of search results, the selected search result having a most recent associated time of the plurality of search results; means for comparing the object in the first tuple to the object in the second tuple; and means for generating the accuracy indication based on the comparison.
</claims>
</document>
