<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/02,A61B5/0482,A61B5/1455,A61B5/16,G09B19/00,G09B19/06,G09B5/08,G09B7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAS, PAYEL
CARR, KEVIN GERARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61560968
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Monitoring learning performance using neurofeedback
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques that facilitate monitoring learning performance using neurofeedback are described. In one embodiment, a system is provided that comprises a memory that stores computer-executable components and a processor that executes computer-executable components stored in the memory. In one implementation, the computer-executable components comprise a feedback component that receives first feedback information regarding mental function of a user in association with participation in a learning experience, wherein the first feedback information is captured via a NIRS spectroscopy sensor worn by the user. The computer-executable components further comprise an assessment component that determines learning performance information for the user based on the first feedback information, wherein the learning performance information reflects the user's learning of content presented to the user in the learning experience, and a notification component that generates a notification based on the learning performance information indicating the user's learning of the content is below a defined learning performance level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a near-infrared spectroscopy sensor; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a feedback component that: captures, via the near-infrared spectroscopy sensor worn by a user, neuroimaging measurements including changes in blood oxygenation levels in different areas of a brain of the user during participation in a learning experience being presented by a teacher; and transforms the neuroimaging measurements into first feedback information representing brain activity over time in the different areas of the brain of the user; an assessment component that: identifies, via a pattern classifier, patterns of changes in brain activity in the first feedback information; determines learning performance information for the user based on correlating the patterns of changes in brain activity in the first feedback information to one or more performance measures associated with one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user, wherein the learning performance information reflects user learning of content presented to the user in the learning experience; a notification component that generates a notification on a first device associated with the teacher based on the learning performance information indicating the user learning of the content is below a defined learning performance threshold; and an aggregate component that employs a support vector machine to infer an action to be performed by the user based on the learning experience.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the notification component further sends another notification to a second device associated with the user or a third device associated with another user responsible for facilitating learning of the content by the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the notification identifies one or more areas of the presentation for which the user learning is below the defined learning performance level.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the learning performance information comprises respective learning performance levels of the user for the one or more performance measures with respect to the one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more defined cognitive function areas are selected from a group consisting of: working memory, mental effort, and attention.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein a content correlation component can determine a part of the content included in a presentation that is associated with reception of the first feedback information based on timing of reception of the first feedback information and a current time point or time frame associated with the presentation, thereby facilitating improved processing time for determining if the user is having difficulty learning the content and for notifying a second user regarding the user's difficulty.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first feedback information comprises haemodynamic information representative of a brain activity area selected from a group consisting of: working memory performance levels, stress levels, and attention levels of the user.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first feedback information comprises metabolic information representative of a brain activity area selected from a group consisting of: working memory performance levels, stress levels, and attention levels of the user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback component further receives second feedback information regarding the brain activity of the user in association with the participation in the learning experience, wherein the second feedback information is captured via an electroencephalogram sensor worn by the user, and wherein the assessment component further determines the learning performance information for the user based on the first feedback information and the second feedback information, wherein the learning performance information comprises respective learning performance levels of the user with respect to the one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more defined cognitive function areas are selected from a group consisting of: attention, familiarity, mental effort, working memory, linguistic acquisition, social learning, and mediation, wherein an aggregation component can analyze aggregated learning performance data to predict one or more learning experiences that can be used to improve a student learning experience.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer-executable components further comprise: a review component that stores the learning performance information and facilitates review of the learning performance information by the user or another user responsible for facilitating learning of the content by the first user.
12. A computer implemented method, comprising: capturing, by a device operatively coupled to a processor, via a near-infrared spectroscopy sensor worn by a user, neuroimaging measurements including changes in blood oxygenation levels in different areas of a brain of the user during participation in a learning experience being presented by a teacher; transforming, by the device, the neuroimaging measurements into first feedback information representing brain activity over time in the different areas of the brain of the user; identifying, by the device via a pattern classifier, patterns of changes in brain activity in the first feedback information; determining, by the device, learning performance information for the user based on correlating the patterns of changes in brain activity in the first feedback information to one or more performance measures associated with one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user, wherein the learning performance information comprises respective learning performance levels of the user for the one or more performance measures with respect to the one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user; generating, by the device, a notification on a first device associated with the teacher based on the learning performance information indicating user learning performance is below a defined learning performance threshold; and employing, by the device, a support vector machine to infer an action to be performed by the user based on the learning experience.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: sending, by the device based on the generating the notification, another notification to a second device associated with the user or a third device associated with another user responsible for facilitating learning of the content by the user.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: obtaining by the device, video of the user during the presentation; analyzing, by the device, the video to obtain additional information selected from the group consisting of facial expressions of the user and body languages of the user; correlating, by the device, the additional information with the first feedback information to determine the learning performance information.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, by the device, a part of the content included in a presentation that is associated with reception of the first feedback information based on timing of reception of the first feedback information and a current time point or time frame associated with the presentation, and wherein the notification identifies the user, the one or more defined cognitive function areas, and the learning performance levels for the one or more defined cognitive function areas.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein the first feedback information comprises haemodynamic information representative of a brain function area selected from a group consisting of: working memory performance levels, stress levels, and attention levels of the user.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the device, second feedback information regarding the brain activity of the user in the learning environment, wherein the second feedback information is captured via an electroencephalogram sensor worn by the user, and wherein the determining the learning performance information comprises determining the learning performance information for the user based on the first feedback information and the second feedback information.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein the one or more defined cognitive function areas are selected from a group consisting of: attention, familiarity, mental effort, working memory, linguistic acquisition, social learning, and mediation.
19. A computer program product for monitoring learning performance based on neurofeedback, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processing component to cause the processing component to: capture, via a near-infrared spectroscopy sensor worn by a user, neuroimaging measurements including changes in blood oxygenation levels in different areas of a brain of the user during participation in a learning experience being presented by a teacher; transform the neuroimaging measurements into neurofeedback information representing brain activity over time in the different areas of the brain of the user based on the neuroimaging measurements; identifying, by the device via a pattern classifier, patterns of changes in brain activity in the neurofeedback information; determine learning performance information for the user based on correlating the patterns of changes in brain activity in the neurofeedback information to one or more performance measures associated with one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user, wherein the learning performance information reflects user learning of content presented to the user in the learning context by a teacher; generate a notification based on the learning performance information indicating the user learning of the content is below a defined learning performance threshold; send the notification to a device associated with the teacher to facilitate improving the user's learning of the content; and employ a support vector machine to infer an action to be performed by the user based on the learning experience.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the learning performance information comprises respective learning performance levels of the user for the one or more performance measures with respect to the one or more defined cognitive function areas associated with the brain activity of the user, wherein the one or more defined cognitive function areas comprise one or more of: attention, familiarity, mental effort, working memory, linguistic acquisition, social learning, and mediation, wherein analyze aggregated learning performance information to predict one or more learning experiences that can be used to improve a student learning experience.
</claims>
</document>
