<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FINCH TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SERGEEV, IAKOV EVGENEVICH
LOBANOV, ALEXANDER SERGEEVICH
ERIVANTCEV, VIKTOR VLADIMIROVICH
KARTASHOV, ALEXEY IVANOVICH
GONCHAROV, DANIIL OLEGOVICH
Karimov, Roman Tagirovich
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838889
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Calibration of multiple sensor modules related to an orientation of a user of the sensor modules
</title>

<abstract>
A system including a computing device receiving a first indication, the first indication indicating that a plurality of sensor modules are positioned in placeholders in a container device, wherein the placeholders are configured to hold the plurality of sensor modules at pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device. In response to the first indication, the computing device calibrates orientation measurements of the plurality or sensor modules relative to a first common reference system based on the pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device. The computing device then receives a second indication, the second indication indicating that the sensor modules are positioned on parts of a user; and in response to the second indication, the computing device calibrates the plurality of sensor modules relative to user's reference system aligned with the orientation of the user based on a specific orientation relation between the arm sensor module and the orientation of the user, wherein the arm sensor module is one of the plurality of sensor modules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a first indication, the first indication indicating that a plurality of sensor modules are positioned in placeholders in a container device, wherein the placeholders are configured to hold the plurality of sensor modules at pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; in response to the first indication, calibrating, by the computing device, orientation measurements of the plurality or sensor modules relative to a first common reference system based on the pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; receiving, by the computing device, a second indication, the second indication indicating that the sensor modules are positioned on parts of a user; and in response to the second indication, calibrating, by the computing device, the plurality of sensor modules relative to a second reference system aligned with a first orientation of the user based on a specific orientation relation between a first sensor module and the first orientation of the user, wherein the first sensor module is one of the plurality of sensor modules.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the container device is a charging device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each respective sensor module has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) configured to measure an orientation of the respective sensor module.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first indication is generated in response to a determination that the sensor modules are connected to the charging device for charging.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first indication is generated in response to the passing of a predetermined amount of time from a previous calibration operation in the container device while the sensor modules are connected in the container device.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the first indication is generated in response to a determination that a cover of the container device is open while the sensor modules are electronically connected to the charging device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second indication is generated in response to an activation of a button on an arm module; and wherein the sensor modules include the arm module configured to be positioned on an upper arm of the user.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein each respective sensor module has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) having a micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) gyroscope configured to measure an orientation of a respective sensor module.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the IMU further includes a magnetometer.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the IMU further includes a MEMS accelerometer.
11. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, causes: receiving, by a computing device, a first indication, the first indication indicating that a plurality of sensor modules are positioned in placeholders in a container device, wherein the placeholders are configured to hold the plurality of sensor modules at pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; in response to the first indication, calibrating, by the computing device, orientation measurements of the plurality or sensor modules relative to a first common reference system based on the pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; receiving, by the computing device, a second indication, the second indication indicating that the sensor modules are positioned on parts of a user; and in response to the second indication, calibrating, by the computing device, the plurality of sensor modules relative to a second reference system aligned with a first orientation of the user based on a specific orientation relation between a first sensor module and the first orientation of the user, wherein the first sensor module is one of the plurality of sensor modules.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the container device is a charging device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein each respective sensor module has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) configured to measure an orientation of the respective sensor module.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the first indication is generated in response to a determination that the sensor modules are connected to the charging device for charging.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the first indication is generated in response to the passing of a predetermined amount of time from a previous calibration operation in the container device while the sensor modules are connected in the container device.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the first indication is generated in response to a determination that a cover of the container device is open while the sensor modules are electronically connected to the charging device.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the second indication is generated in response to an activation of a button on an arm module; and wherein the sensor modules include the arm module configured to be positioned on an upper arm of the user.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein each respective sensor module has an inertial measurement unit (IMU) having a micro-electromechanical system (MEMS) gyroscope configured to measure an orientation of a respective sensor module.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the IMU further includes a magnetometer and a MEMS accelerometer.
20. A non-transitory computer storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by a computing device, instructs the computing device to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving, by the computing device, a first indication, the first indication indicating that a plurality of sensor modules are positioned in placeholders in a container device, wherein the placeholders are configured to hold the plurality of sensor modules at pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; in response to the first indication, calibrating, by the computing device, orientation measurements of the plurality or sensor modules relative to a first common reference system based on the pre-determined positions and orientations in the container device; receiving, by the computing device, a second indication, the second indication indicating that the sensor modules are positioned on parts of a user; and in response to the second indication, calibrating, by the computing device, the plurality of sensor modules relative to a second reference system aligned with a first orientation of the user based on a specific orientation relation between a first sensor module and the first orientation of the user, wherein the first sensor module is one of the plurality of sensor modules.
</claims>
</document>
