<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
PEI LEI
FARROW, MARY
YANG, HEIDI
Kumawat, Diwakar
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEI LEI
FARROW, MARY
YANG, HEIDI
Kumawat, Diwakar
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838866
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generation of keywords for categories in a category hierarchy of a software product
</title>

<abstract>
A method for category search. The method includes determining semantic relationships between terms in a corpus; obtaining, from an expense category hierarchy and for an expense category, a collection of keywords; and expanding the collection with a related keyword according to a semantic relationship of the relationships between the related keyword and a preexisting keyword in the collection. The method further includes extracting a segment from a description of a first historical transaction by a user of the financial product; and adding the extracted segment as an additional keyword to the collection when, for the extracted segment, the minimum of a first and a second confidence-interval bound calculated for a first transaction score and a first user score, respectively, satisfy a first threshold; and returning the name of the expense category in response to a user submitting a first query that comprises at least one the keyword in the collection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, using clustered computers executing distributed-computing software, a plurality of semantic relationships between a plurality of terms in a corpus; obtaining, from an expense category hierarchy and for an expense category in a financial management software product, a collection of keywords comprising a name and additional keywords from a description of the expense category; expanding the collection with a related keyword according to a semantic relationship of the plurality of relationships between the related keyword and a preexisting keyword in the collection, wherein the related keyword and the preexisting keyword are in the plurality of terms; using the clustered computers to: extract a segment from a description of a first historical transaction by a first user of the financial management software product to obtain an extracted segment, for the extracted segment, calculate a first confidence-interval bound for a first transaction score and a second confidence-interval bound for a first user score, and add the extracted segment as an additional keyword to the collection by: comparing the first confidence-interval bound to the second confidence-interval bound; selecting, based on the comparing, a lowest value of the first confidence-interval bound and the second confidence-interval bound; comparing the lowest value to a threshold; and adding the extracted segment when the lowest value satisfies the threshold; and returning the name of the expense category in response to a user submitting a first query that comprises at least one keyword in the collection.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second query from the user; determining, for each expense category in the expense category hierarchy, that none of the keywords in second query are in the keyword collection for the expense category; notifying the user of the determination; receiving a selection by the user of an expense category, wherein the selection occurs during a same session; and adding the keywords in the second query to the collection of keywords for the expense category selected by the user.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: expanding the collection with a related keyword from a lexical database.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the corpus comprises a plurality of historical transactions by users of the financial management software product, and wherein the financial management software product comprises a massively multi-user online financial management software product.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying distributional semantics to determine the plurality of semantic relationships between the plurality of terms in the corpus.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the distributional semantics employs at least one selected from a group consisting of a continuous bag-of-words model and a skip-gram model.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first transaction score is generated at least in part on re-categorization of a second historical transaction by a second user.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing online quantitative testing to generate the expense category hierarchy.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein using the clustered computers further comprises using the clustered computers to: calculate a first transaction score, wherein the transaction score is a first score describing a relative number of transactions stored by the financial management software product that contain the extracted segment; and calculate a first user score, wherein the user score comprises a second score describing a relative number of users of the financial management software product who have transactions that contain the extracted segment.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage media comprising a program instructions, that when executed: determine, using clustered computers running distributed-computing software, a plurality of semantic relationships between a plurality of terms in a corpus; obtain, from an expense category hierarchy and for an expense category in a financial management software product, a collection of keywords comprising a name and additional keywords from a description of the expense category; expand the collection with a related keyword according to a semantic relationship of the plurality of relationships between the related keyword and a preexisting keyword in the collection, wherein the related keyword and the preexisting keyword are in the plurality of terms; use the clustered computers to: extract a segment from a description of a first historical transaction by a first user of the financial management software product to obtain an extracted segment, for the extracted segment, calculate a first confidence-interval bound for a first transaction score and a second-confidence-interval bound for a first user score, and add the extracted segment as an additional keyword to the collection by: comparing the first confidence-interval bound to the second confidence-interval bound; selecting, based on the comparing, a lowest value of the first confidence-interval bound and the second confidence-interval bound; comparing the lowest value to a threshold; and adding the extracted segment when the lowest value satisfies the threshold; and return the name of the expense category in response to a user submitting a first query that comprises at least one keyword in the collection.
11. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the program instructions when executed further: receive a second query from the user; determine, for each expense category in the expense category hierarchy, that none of the keywords in second query are in the keyword collection for the expense category; notify the user of the determination; receive a selection by the user of an expense category, wherein the selection occurs during a same session; and add the keywords in the second query to the collection of keywords for the expense category selected by the user.
12. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the program instructions when executed further: expand the collection with a related keyword from a lexical database.
13. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the corpus comprises a plurality of historical transactions by users of the financial management software product, and wherein the financial management software product comprises a massively multi-user online financial management software product.
14. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the program instructions when executed further: apply distributional semantics to determine the plurality of semantic relationships between the plurality of terms in the corpus.
15. The computer-readable storage media of claim 14, wherein the distributional semantics employs at least one selected from a group consisting of a continuous bag-of-words model and a skip-gram model.
16. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the first transaction score is generated at least in part on re-categorization of a second historical transaction by a second user.
</claims>
</document>
