<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,H04L12/721,H04L12/801,H04W28/02,H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
STREIJL, ROBERT C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55913315
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced network congestion application programming interface
</title>

<abstract>
Reception of network load data is disclosed. For instance, the network load data can provide indication of a utilization level extant in a wireless cellular network. The systems and methods, as a function of the utilization level, determine a congestion metric that indicates a level of congestion determined to have been experienced by a communication packet using the wireless cellular network device. Further, the disclosed systems and methods schedules transmission of communication packets to an end user device via the wireless cellular network device, as a function of the determined congestion metric.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a first network device of a group of network devices, load data representing a usage level of the first network device over a defined time period; determining, based on the load data, a congestion metric representative of a first delay that is experienced by a communication packet sent by the device to the first network device; determining, as a function of the congestion metric, a predictive throughput indicator representative of a second delay that is experienced by the communication packet sent via the first network device to a second network device of the group of network devices, wherein the predictive throughput indicator is determined as a function of a kurtosis of a distribution of a clustering of the first delay and the second delay around an estimator; based on the predictive throughput indicator indicating a first network state, scheduling transmission of streaming content to a user device via the first network device; and based on the predictive throughput indicator indicating a second network state different than the first network state, scheduling the transmission of the streaming content via the second network device.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise determining, as a function of the congestion metric, stability data representative of a stability factor associated with the first delay.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise determining the stability factor by clustering the first delay around an estimator.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise determining, as a function of the congestion metric, stability data representative of a stability factor associated with the second delay.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise determining the stability factor as a function of clustering the second delay around an estimator.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the operations further comprise determining the stability factor as a function of a variance of the clustering around the estimator.
7. The device of claim 5, wherein the estimator is determined as a function of a mean level of delay experienced by the communication packet being sent to the first network device and the communication packet being sent to the second network device via the first network device.
8. The device of claim 5, wherein the estimator is determined as a function of a median level of delay experienced by the communication packet being sent to the first network device and the communication packet being sent to the second network device via the first network device.
9. The device of claim 5, wherein the estimator is determined as a function of a modal level of delay experienced by the communication packet being sent to the first network device and the communication packet being sent to the second network device via the first network device.
10. A method, comprising: determining, by a device comprising a processor, a congestion metric representing a first delay that is experienced by a communication packet sent by the device to a first network device of a group of network devices, wherein the congestion metric is determined as a function of load data received from the first network device; determining, by the device, a throughput indicator representative of a second delay that is experienced by the communication packet sent by the device, via the first network device, to a second network device of the group of network devices, wherein the throughput indicator is determined as a function of a variance of clustering of the first delay and the second delay around an estimator; and sending, by the device, streaming content to an end point device based on the throughput indicator using one of the first network device or the second network device.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of a stability factor associated with the first delay.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of clustering the first delay around the estimator.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of clustering the second delay around the estimator.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of a skewness of a distribution of the clustering of the first delay and the second delay around the estimator.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of a kurtosis of a distribution the clustering of the first delay and the second delay around the estimator.
16. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining, by the device, the throughput indicator as a function of enumerating a number of congestion events comprising the load data that exceed a threshold.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to receiving load data from a first network device, determining a congestion metric representing a first delay that is experienced by a communication packet sent by the processor to the first network device of a group of network devices; generating a predictive indicator representative of a second delay that is experienced by the communication packet sent, via the first network device, to a second network device of the group of network devices, wherein the predictive indicator is determined as a function of a skewness of a distribution of a clustering of the first delay and the second delay around an estimator; and transmitting streaming content to a user device based on the predictive indicator using the first network device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting the streaming content to the user device based on the predictive indication using the second network device.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise determining the predictive indicator based on enumeration congestion events included in the load data exceeding a threshold value representative of a defined utilization value.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise determining the predictive indicator based on determining a variance of the clustering of the first delay and the second delay around the estimator.
</claims>
</document>
