<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/00,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUA, PUNEIT
FLOWERS, ELIZABETH
PHILLIPS, SHANNA L.
BALOTA, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71125377
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Heuristic credit risk assessment engine
</title>

<abstract>
A heuristic engine includes capabilities to collect an unstructured data set and a current business context to calculate a credit worthiness score. Providing a heuristic algorithm, executing within the engine, with the data set and the context may allow determination of predicted future contexts and recommend subsequent actions, such as assessing a credit risk of a customer transaction and reducing the risk of customer transactions by processing the available data. Such heuristic algorithms may learn from past data transactions and appropriate correlations with events and available data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, executed by one or more computer processors, to generate a credit score, comprising: retrieving, by the one or more computer processors and from a first memory, an unstructured data set comprising an aggregated transaction set for a plurality of users, the aggregated transaction set including at least a first correlation between a user of the plurality of users and a first credit score; receiving, by the one or more computer processors and from a network interface device, unstructured background data related to the aggregated transaction set and a plurality of pending transactions; encoding, by the one or more computer processors, the unstructured background data to create encoded background data; accessing, by the one or more computer processors, a heuristic algorithm stored in a second memory; generating, by the one or more computer processors, a second credit score by executing the heuristic algorithm using the aggregated transaction set, the first correlation, and the encoded background data; generating, by the one or more computer processors, a second correlation between the second credit score and a subset of the encoded background data associated with a pending transaction of the plurality of pending transactions; determining, by the one or more computer processors, that the second correlation exceeds a predefined credit score threshold; and executing, by the one or more computer processors and based at least in part on the determining, the pending transaction.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second credit score complies with a credit reporting standard.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises a plurality of recent transactions.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises transactions related to at least one account.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first memory comprises an external transaction server.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second memory comprises an external heuristic server.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second credit score complies with a standard measure of credit worthiness issued by a regulatory authority.
8. A computer system configured to generate a credit score, the computer system comprising at least one of one or more processors or one or more transceivers configured to: retrieve an unstructured data set from a first memory, the unstructured data set comprising an aggregated transaction set for a plurality of users, the aggregated transaction set including at least a first correlation between a user of the plurality of users and a first credit score; receive, from a network interface device, unstructured background data related to the aggregated transaction set and a plurality of pending transactions; encode the unstructured background data to create encoded background data; access a heuristic algorithm stored in a second memory; generate a second credit score by executing the heuristic algorithm using the aggregated transaction set, the first correlation, and the encoded background data; generate a second correlation between the second credit score and a subset of the encoded background data, the subset including at least one pending transaction of the plurality of pending transactions; determine that the second correlation exceeds a predefined credit score threshold; and execute, based at least in part on the determining, the at least one pending transaction.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the second credit score complies with a credit reporting standard.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises a plurality of recent transactions.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises transactions related to at least one account.
12. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the first memory comprises an external transaction server.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the second memory comprises an external heuristic server.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising computer readable instructions that, when executed, cause one or more computer processors to: retrieve, by the one or more computer processors and from a first memory, an unstructured data set comprising an aggregated transaction set for a plurality of users, the aggregated transaction set including at least a first correlation between a user of the plurality of users and a first credit score; receive, by the one or more computer processors and from a network interface device, unstructured background data related to the aggregated transaction set and a plurality of pending transactions; encode, by the one or more computer processors, the unstructured background data to create encoded background data; access, by the one or more computer processors, a heuristic algorithm stored in a second memory; and generate, by the one or more computer processors, a second credit score by executing the heuristic algorithm using the aggregated transaction set, the first correlation, and the encoded background data; generate, by the one or more computer processors, a second correlation between the second credit score and a subset of the encoded background data; determine, by the one or more computer processors, that the second correlation exceeds a predefined credit score threshold; and execute, by the one or more computer processors and based at least in part on the determining, a pending transaction in the subset of the encoded background data.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the second credit score complies with a credit reporting standard.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises a plurality of recent transactions.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the aggregated transaction set comprises transactions related to at least one account.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the first memory comprises an external transaction server.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the second memory comprises an external heuristic server.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the second credit score complies with a standard measure of credit worthiness issued by a regulatory authority.
</claims>
</document>
