<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06T3/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMASWAMY, PALLAVIKA
PORCINA, SHELDON
BECKER, RICHARD J.
MOISE, DANIEL L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58709576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Label and field identification without optical character recognition (OCR)
</title>

<abstract>
Systems of the present disclosure allow fields and labels to be identified in a digital image of a form without performing OCR. A digital image of a form can be partitioned into image segments using computer-vision image-segmentation techniques. Features for each image segment can be extracted using computer-vision feature-detection methods. The features extracted from an image segment can be included in an input instance for a machine-learning model. The machine-learning model can assign a classification to the input instance. The classification can associate the input instance with a field type or a label type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying form fields in a digital image, the method comprising: receiving, over a network, a digital image of a form taken by a computing device; generating, based on the digital image, a set of image segments with a set of image segmentation techniques; extracting a set of features from each image segment with a set of feature extraction techniques; classifying a first image segment of the set of image segments using a machine-learning model, wherein the machine-learning model is trained using training data that includes: a set of training image segments, a set of extracted features from each training image segment, and an assigned verified classification for each training image segment that indicates to not perform optical character recognition (OCR) based on the training image segment not including extractable text; determining an image-quality metric of the first image segment is below a threshold requirement; and determining, based on the classification and the image-quality metric of the first image segment, to not perform OCR on the image segment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the set of image segments includes: identifying line boundaries in the digital image; and defining regions in the digital image based on the line boundaries.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the set of image segments includes: identifying an overlap between a line-boundary image segment and a whitespace-boundary image segment; and combining the line-boundary image segment and the whitespace-boundary image segment to form a combined image segment.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of features includes one or more features that are invariant to scaling, translation, and rotation.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving user feedback indicating a corrected classification to assign to the field; and creating a training instance for the machine-learning model, wherein the training instance comprises the set of features and the corrected classification.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting, in parallel, a plurality of features from each segment of the set of image segments; and classifying, in parallel, a field in each image segment in the set of image segments based on the plurality of features using the machine-learning model.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium containing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, perform an operation for identifying form fields in a digital image, the operation comprising: receiving, over a network, a digital image of a form taken by a computing device; generating, based on the digital image, a set of image segments with a set of image segmentation techniques; extracting a set of features from each image segment with a set of feature extraction techniques; classifying a first image segment of the set of image segments using a machine-learning model, wherein the machine-learning model is trained using training data that includes: a set of training image segments, a set of extracted features from each training image segment, and an assigned verified classification for each training image segment that indicates to not perform optical character recognition (OCR) based on the training image segment not including extractable text; determining an image-quality metric of the first image segment is below a threshold requirement; and determining, based on the classification and the image-quality metric of the first image segment, to not perform OCR on the image segment.
8. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein generating the set of image segments includes: identifying line boundaries in the digital image; and defining regions in the digital image based on the line boundaries.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein generating the set of image segments includes: identifying an overlap between a line-boundary image segment and a whitespace-boundary image segment; and combining the line-boundary image segment and the whitespace-boundary image segment to form a combined image segment.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the set of features includes one or more features that are invariant to scaling, translation, and rotation.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the operation further comprises: receiving user feedback indicating a corrected classification to assign to the field; and creating a training instance for the machine-learning model, wherein the training instance comprises the set of features and the corrected classification.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the operation further comprises: extracting, in parallel, a plurality of features from each segment of the set of image segments; and classifying, in parallel, a field in each image segment in the set of image segments based on of features using the machine-learning model.
13. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory storing one or more applications, which, when executed on the processor performs an operation for identifying form fields in a digital image, the operation comprising: receiving, over a network, a digital image of a form taken by a computing device; generating, based on the digital image, a set of image segments with a set of image segmentation techniques; extracting a set of features from each image segment with a set of feature extraction techniques; classifying a first image segment of the set of image segments using a machine-learning model, wherein the machine-learning model is trained using training data that includes: a set of training image segments, a set of extracted features from each training image segment, and an assigned verified classification for each training image segment that indicates to not perform optical character recognition (OCR) based on the training image segment not including extractable text; determining an image-quality metric of the first image segment is below a threshold requirement; and determining, based on the classification and the image-quality metric of the first image segment, to not perform OCR on the image segment.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein generating the set of image segments includes: identifying an overlap between a line-boundary image segment and a whitespace-boundary image segment; and combining the line-boundary image segment and the whitespace-boundary image segment to form a combined image segment.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of image segmentation techniques are based on line boundaries, whitespace boundaries, thresholding, clustering, compression, histograms, edge detection, region growing, graph partitioning, or watershed transformation.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification of the first image segment is a field type or a label type.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the set of image segmentation techniques are based on line boundaries, whitespace boundaries, thresholding, clustering, compression, histograms, edge detection, region growing, graph partitioning, or watershed transformation.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, wherein the classification of the first image segment is a field type or a label type.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the set of image segmentation techniques are based on line boundaries, whitespace boundaries, thresholding, clustering, compression, histograms, edge detection, region growing, graph partitioning, or watershed transformation.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the classification of the first image segment is a field type or a label type.
</claims>
</document>
