<document>

<filing_date>
2014-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02,H04L12/803,H04L12/911
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HITCHCOCK, DANIEL WADE
RAMALINGAM HARSHA
PORTER, BRANDON WILLIAM
MCINERNY, MICHAEL JAMES
GOLDBERG, ANTON VLADILENOVICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663969
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated services capacity modeling
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer-readable media for implementing automated services capacity modeling using call tracing are disclosed. A plurality of demand drivers are determined based on trace data for service interactions between services in a service-oriented system. The demand drivers are determined to drive a generation of service calls to a particular service. A total call volume is determined to the particular service based on the external demand drivers. An optimized quantity of computing resources to provide the particular service is determined based on the total call volume.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a plurality of computing devices configured to implement a capacity modeling system and a service-oriented system, wherein the service-oriented system comprises a plurality of services, wherein the plurality of services are configured to: generate trace data for a plurality of service interactions between individual ones of the plurality of services, wherein the trace data comprises data indicative of call paths between the individual ones of the plurality of services, wherein the call paths identify a calling service and a called service for each of the plurality of service interactions, and wherein the call paths identify one or more intermediate services for at least one of the plurality of service interactions; and send the trace data to the capacity modeling system; and wherein the capacity modeling system is configured to: analyze the trace data to generate one or more call graphs based on the call paths; determine a plurality of demand drivers that originate a plurality of service calls to a particular service of the plurality of services, wherein the plurality of demand drivers comprises a plurality of other services of the plurality of services, wherein the plurality of demand drivers is determined based on analysis of the call graphs to determine relationships between individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers and the particular service, wherein the relationships indicate that the individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers are calling services that originate at least a portion of the plurality of service calls to the particular service; determine respective call volumes originating from individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers to the particular service based on the relationships; determine a total call volume to the particular service, wherein the total call volume is determined as a summation of the respective call volumes from the individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers; determine a resource count function for the particular service based at least in part on the total call volume and a calibrated optimal volume per computing device, wherein the calibrated optimal volume per computing device is determined based on a predicted hardware cost metric; determine a capacity forecast for the particular service based on the resource count function for the particular service, and wherein the capacity forecast indicates a quantity of computing resources to provide the particular service; and modify a quantity or configuration of computing resources in the service-oriented system based on the capacity forecast.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the capacity modeling system is configured to: update the capacity forecast one or more times based on additional trace data, wherein a change for the respective call volume for a respective demand driver is based on a change to the respective demand driver.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of demand drivers, the respective call volumes, the total call volume, and the capacity forecast are determined through execution of program instructions.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the resource count function for the particular service is updated in response to a modification of program code for the particular service.
5. A computer-implemented method, comprising: analyzing trace data for a plurality of service interactions between individual services in a service-oriented system to generate one or more call graphs, wherein the call graphs identify a calling service and a called service for each of the plurality of service interactions, and wherein the call graphs identify one or more intermediate services for at least one of the plurality of service interactions; determining a plurality of demand drivers for a particular service in the service-oriented system based on the one or more call graphs identifying relationships between individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers and the particular service, wherein the relationships indicate that the individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers are calling services that originate at least a portion of a plurality of service calls to the particular service, wherein the plurality of demand drivers comprises a plurality of other services of the individual services, and wherein the plurality of demand drivers are determined to drive generation of the plurality of service calls to the particular service; determining a total call volume to the particular service, wherein the total call volume is determined based on respective call volumes originating from individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers; determining a resource count function for the particular service based at least in part on the total call volume and a calibrated optimal volume per computing device, wherein the calibrated optimal volume per computing device is determined based on a predicted hardware cost metric; determining an optimized quantity of computing resources to provide the particular service based on the resource count function for the particular service; and modifying a configuration of one or more computing resources based on the optimized quantity.
6. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising: increasing or decreasing a quantity of computing resources to be acquired based on the optimized quantity.
7. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising: modifying a quantity of the one or more computing resources based on the optimized quantity.
8. The method as recited in claim 5, further comprising: determining respective call volumes for individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers, wherein the total call volume is determined as a summation of the respective call volumes for individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers.
9. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the method further comprises: updating the optimized quantity one or more times based on additional trace data.
10. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the optimized quantity of computing resources is determined based at least in part on one or more performance metrics to optimize the call paths.
11. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the resource count function for the particular service is updated in response to a modification of program code for the particular service.
12. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the resource count function for the particular service comprises the total call volume divided by the calibrated optimal volume per computing device, and wherein the predicted hardware cost metric is determined based at least in part on one or more of throughput data, peak data, expense data, or any combination thereof.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing program instructions computer-executable to perform: analyzing trace data for a plurality of service interactions between individual services in a service-oriented system to generate one or more call graphs, wherein the call graphs identify a calling service and a called service for each of the plurality of service interactions, and wherein the call graphs identify one or more intermediate services for at least one of the plurality of service interactions; determining a plurality of demand drivers based on analyzing the one or more call graphs identifying relationships between individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers and a particular service, wherein the relationships indicate that the individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers are calling services that originate at least a portion of a plurality of service calls to the particular service, wherein the plurality of demand drivers comprises a plurality of other services of the individual services, and wherein the plurality of demand drivers are determined to drive generation of the plurality of service calls to the particular service of the plurality of services; determining a total call volume to the particular service, wherein the total call volume is determined based on respective call volumes originating from individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers; determining a resource count function for the particular service based at least in part on the total call volume and a calibrated optimal volume per computing device, wherein the calibrated optimal volume per computing device is determined based on a predicted hardware cost metric; determining a capacity forecast for the particular service based at least in part on the resource count function for the particular service, and wherein the capacity forecast indicates a quantity of computing resources to provide the particular service; and modifying a configuration of one or more computing resources based on the capacity forecast.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to perform: increasing or decreasing a quantity of computing resources to be acquired based on the capacity forecast.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to perform: modifying a quantity of the one or more computing resources based on the capacity forecast.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to perform: determining respective call volumes for individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers, wherein the total call volume is determined as a summation of the respective call volumes for individual ones of the plurality of demand drivers.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the program instructions are further computer-executable to perform: updating the capacity forecast one or more times based on additional trace data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the plurality of demand drivers, the total call volume, and the capacity forecast are determined automatically.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the resource count function for the particular service is updated in response to a modification of program code for the particular service.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium as recited in claim 13, wherein the resource count function for the particular service comprises the total call volume divided by the calibrated optimal volume per computing device, wherein the predicted hardware cost metric is generated based at least in part on one or more of throughput data, peak data, expense data, or any combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
