<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/0967
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIELDS, BRIAN MARK
CIELOCHA, STEVEN C.
GAUDIN, KRISTOPHER KEITH
BAUMANN, NATHAN W.
ALT, JACOB J.
UPHOFF, LAURA A.
ROLL, GILES
WAZEER, MOHAMED A.
CHAN, LEO NELSON
DAVIS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60143282
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicular traffic alerts for avoidance of abnormal traffic conditions
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are described for generating a vehicle-to-vehicle traffic alert and updating a vehicle-usage profile. Various aspects include detecting, via one or more processors associated with a first vehicle, that an abnormal traffic condition exists in an operating environment of the first vehicle. An electronic message is generated and transmitted wirelessly, via a vehicle-mounted transceiver associated with the first vehicle, to alert a nearby vehicle of the abnormal traffic condition and to allow the nearby vehicle to avoid the abnormal traffic condition. The first vehicle receives telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle after the nearby vehicle received the electronic message, and transmits the telematics data to a remote server for updating a vehicle-usage profile associated with the nearby vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of generating a vehicle traffic alert and updating a vehicle-usage profile, the method comprising: detecting, via one or more processors, that an abnormal traffic condition exists in an operating environment of a first vehicle; generating, via the one or more processors, an electronic message regarding the abnormal traffic condition; transmitting, via the one or more processors, the electronic message to a nearby vehicle, wherein the electronic message is transmitted via wireless communication to alert the nearby vehicle of the abnormal traffic condition and to allow the nearby vehicle to avoid the abnormal traffic condition; receiving, via the one or more processors, telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle after the nearby vehicle received the electronic message; and updating, via the one or more processors, a vehicle-usage profile associated with the nearby vehicle based upon the received telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle, wherein updating the vehicle-usage profile causes an insurance premium adjustment to an insurance policy associated with an operator of the nearby vehicle.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is one or more of the following: an erratic vehicle, an erratic driver, road construction, a closed highway exit, slowed or slowing traffic, slowed or slowing vehicular congestion, or one or more other vehicles braking ahead of the first vehicle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is bad weather and the electronic message indicates a GPS location of the bad weather.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the nearby vehicle comprises one or more of the following: an autonomous vehicle, a semi-autonomous vehicle or a self-driving vehicle, and wherein the nearby vehicle includes one or more processors for receiving the transmitted electronic message.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the electronic message to the nearby vehicle requires transmitting the electronic message to one or more remote processors.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is detected by analyzing vehicular telematics data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the nearby vehicle travels to the operating environment of the first vehicle.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising transmitting the electronic message to a smart infrastructure component, wherein the smart infrastructure component: analyzes the electronic message to determine a type of anomalous condition for the abnormal traffic condition; and performs an action based upon the type of anomalous condition in order to modify the anomalous condition.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message contains location information of the abnormal traffic condition, and the nearby vehicle ignores the electronic message when the location information indicates that the abnormal traffic condition is beyond a threshold distance from the nearby vehicle.
10. A computer system configured to generate a vehicle traffic alert and update a vehicle-usage profile, the computer system comprising one or more processors, the one or more processors configured to: detect that an abnormal traffic condition exists in an operating environment of a first vehicle; generate an electronic message regarding the abnormal traffic condition; transmit the electronic message to a nearby vehicle, wherein the electronic message is transmitted via wireless communication to alert the nearby vehicle of the abnormal traffic condition and to allow the nearby vehicle to avoid the abnormal traffic condition; receive telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle after the nearby vehicle received the electronic message; and update a vehicle-usage profile associated with the nearby vehicle based upon the received telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle, wherein updating the vehicle-usage profile causes an insurance premium adjustment to an insurance policy associated with an operator of the nearby vehicle.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is one or more of the following: an erratic vehicle, an erratic driver, road construction, a closed highway exit, slowed or slowing traffic, slowed or slowing vehicular congestion, or one or more other vehicles braking ahead of the first vehicle.
12. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is bad weather, and the electronic message indicates a GPS location of the bad weather.
13. The computer system of claim 10, the system further configured to generate an alternate route for the nearby vehicle to take to avoid the abnormal traffic condition.
14. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors include one or more of the following: vehicle-mounted sensors or vehicle-mounted processors.
15. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the nearby vehicle comprises one or more of the following: an autonomous vehicle, a semi-autonomous vehicle or a self-driving vehicle, and the nearby vehicle includes one or more processors for receiving the transmitted electronic message.
16. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the transmission of the electronic message to the nearby vehicle requires transmission of the electronic message to one or more remote processors.
17. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the abnormal traffic condition is detected by analyzing vehicular telematics data.
18. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the nearby vehicle travels to the operating environment of the first vehicle.
19. A computer-implemented method of generating a vehicle traffic alert and updating a vehicle-usage profile, the method comprising: detecting, via one or more processors, that an abnormal traffic condition exists in an operating environment of a first vehicle; generating, via the one or more processors, an electronic message regarding the abnormal traffic condition; transmitting, via the one or more processors, the electronic message to a nearby vehicle, wherein the electronic message is transmitted via wireless communication to alert the nearby vehicle of the abnormal traffic condition and to allow the nearby vehicle to avoid the abnormal traffic condition; and receiving, via the one or more processors, telematics data regarding operation of the nearby vehicle after the nearby vehicle received the electronic message, wherein the electronic message contains location information of the abnormal traffic condition, and the nearby vehicle ignores the electronic message when the location information indicates that the abnormal traffic condition is beyond a threshold distance from the nearby vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
