<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06F8/33,G06F9/44,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU CHENG
LIU SU
ZHONG, WUMI
ANGLIN, DEBBIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770145
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated source code writing style evaluation, validation, and modification
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes: obtaining and storing, by a computer device, a service profile defining writing style rules, scoring information, and threshold information; receiving, by the computer device, an extracted program integrated information (PII) message from a client device; determining, by the computer device, an overall validation score of the extracted PII message is less than a threshold defined by the threshold information; generating, by the computer device, a modified PII message by changing content of the extracted PII message; and returning, by the computer device, the modified PII message to the client device for replacing the extracted PII message in a source code.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining and storing, by a computer device, a service profile defining writing style rules, scoring information, and threshold information; receiving, by the computer device, an extracted program integrated information (PII) message from a client device; determining, by the computer device, an overall validation score of the extracted PII message is less than a threshold defined by the threshold information; generating, by the computer device, a modified PII message by changing content of the extracted PII message; and returning, by the computer device, the modified PII message to the client device for replacing the extracted PII message in a source code, wherein the writing style rules comprise a set of writing style check lists, restrictions, and recommendations for choosing a correct tone, verb, adjective, name, expression, and conventional term; the scoring information comprises one or more tables that list predefined style issues and correlated deduction scores; and the threshold information comprises a set of normalization thresholds for different types of PII messages.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising proofreading the modified PII message prior to the returning the modified PII message to the client device.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the proofreading comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of: automated proofreading by a proofreader module of the computer device; and presenting the modified PII message to a user via the client device and receiving user proofreading input from the client device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracted PII message is received in an application program interface (API) call from an integrated development environment (IDE) running on the client device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the API call includes: the extracted PII message; a determined style of the extracted PII message; and a determined type of the extracted PII message.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the overall validation score is determined using: validation submodules that are based on the writing style rules; and the scoring information.
7. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer device to cause the computer device to: receive an extracted program integrated information (PII) message from a client device; determine an overall validation score of the extracted PII message is less than a threshold defined by stored threshold information; generate a modified PII message by changing content of the extracted PII message; proofread the modified PII message; and accept or decline the modified PII message based on the proofreading; wherein accepting the modified PII message results in the computer device returning the modified PII message to the client device for replacing the extracted PII message in a source code; and declining the modified PII message results in the computer device adjusting one or more system parameters based on the declining.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the proofreading comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of: automated proofreading by a proofreader module of the computer device; and presenting the modified PII message to a user via the client device and receiving user proofreading input from the client device.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the extracted PII message is received in an application program interface (API) call from an integrated development environment (IDE) running on the client device.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the API call includes: the extracted PII message; a determined style of the extracted PII message; and a determined type of the extracted PII message.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the overall validation score is determined using: validation submodules that are based on the writing style rules; and stored scoring information.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the one or more system parameters includes at least one selected from a group consisting of: writing style rules used in generating the modified PII message; the threshold; a scoring table used in determining the overall validation score; and one or more rules used in detecting style issues in the extracted PII message.
13. A system, comprising: a processor, a computer readable memory, and a computer readable storage medium; program instructions to store a service profile defining writing style rules, scoring information, and threshold information; program instructions to receive an extracted program integrated information (PII) message from a client device; program instructions to determine an overall validation score of the extracted PII message is less than a threshold defined by the threshold information; program instructions to generate a modified PII message by changing content of the extracted PII message; program instructions to proofread the modified PII message; and program instructions to accept or decline the modified PII message based on the proofreading; wherein accepting the modified PII message results in the computer device returning the modified PII message to the client device for replacing the extracted PII message in a source code; declining the modified PII message results in the computer device adjusting one or more system parameters based on the declining; and the program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium for execution by the processor via the computer readable memory.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the proofreading comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of: automated proofreading by a proofreader module of the computer device; and presenting the modified PII message to a user via the client device and receiving user proofreading input from the client device.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the extracted PII message is received in an application program interface (API) call from an integrated development environment (IDE) running on the client device.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the API call includes: the extracted PII message; a determined style of the extracted PII message; and a determined type of the extracted PII message.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the overall validation score is determined using: validation submodules that are based on the writing style rules; and stored scoring information.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more system parameters includes at least one selected from a group consisting of: the writing style rules used in generating the modified PII message; the threshold; the scoring information used in determining the overall validation score; and one or more rules used in detecting style issues in the extracted PII message.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein: the writing style rules comprise a set of writing style check lists, restrictions, and recommendations for choosing a correct tone, verb, adjective, name, expression, and conventional term; the scoring information comprises one or more tables that list predefined style issues and correlated deduction scores; and the threshold information comprises a set of normalization thresholds for different types of PII messages.
</claims>
</document>
