<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F16/435,G06F17/30,G06F3/01,G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04N21/45,H04N21/4725,H04N21/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARNETT, JOHN SAMUEL
KOPF, JOHANNES PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62711859
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods to transition between media content items
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer readable media are configured to detect a concept reflected in a first media content item to which a user is provided access. It is determined that the concept has a threshold level of relevance to the user. The concept is associated with an element that upon selection causes a transition to a second media content item to which the user is provided access, the second media content item reflecting the concept. The element is presented in the first media content item for the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, from a user, a selection of a transition marker associated with a concept reflected in a first media content item to cause a transition from the first media content item, wherein the transition marker follows a motion trajectory associated with the concept; configuring, by the computing system, a transition between the first media content item and a second media content item reflecting the concept, wherein the transition is configured based in part on orientation data of the first media content item and the second media content item being within one or more threshold difference values, wherein the orientation data is determined based in part on visual indicators of the first media content item and the second media content item in relation to the concept; and providing, by the computing system, the transition for the user in response to the selection.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the computing system, a plurality of media content items based on a tag associated with the concept; and selecting, by the computing system, a media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein a type of the first media content item is at least one of an image, video, virtual content, or audio content.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein a type of the second media content item is at least one of an image, video, virtual content, or audio content.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the determining the plurality of media content items is further based on inclusion by each of the plurality of media content items of the tag associated with the concept.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items comprises: scoring each of the plurality of media content items based at least on one of a degree of similarity between a tag associated with a media content item and the tag associated with the concept, a level of relevance of a tag associated with a media content item to interests of the user, whether a media content item is provided by a connection of the user on a social networking system, or a popularity of a media content item in the social networking system; and selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item based on the scoring.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: scoring each of the plurality of media content items; providing a threshold number of high scoring media content items of the plurality of media content items to the user as candidates for the second media content item; and receiving from the user a selection of the second media content item from the high scoring media content items.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the transition is permitted by a provider of the second media content item.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second media content item provides a more immersive experience for the user than the first media content item.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first media content item is associated with a connection of the user and is presented at a profile or portal associated with the user, and wherein the transition includes presentation of the profile or portal associated with the user transitioning to presentation of a profile or portal associated with the connection.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: receiving from a user, a selection of a transition marker associated with a concept reflected in a first media content item to cause a transition from the first media content item, wherein the transition marker follows a motion trajectory associated with the concept; configuring a transition between the first media content item and a second media content item reflecting the concept, wherein the transition is configured based in part on orientation data of the first media content item and the second media content item being within one or more threshold difference values, wherein the orientation data is determined based in part on visual indicators of the first media content item and the second media content item in relation to the concept; and providing the transition for the user in response to the selection.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the system to further perform: determining a plurality of media content items based on a tag associated with the concept; and selecting a media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein a type of the first media content item is at least one of an image, video, virtual content, or audio content.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the determining the plurality of media content items is further based on inclusion by each of the plurality of media content items of the tag associated with the concept.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items comprises: scoring each of the plurality of media content items based at least on one of a degree of similarity between a tag associated with a media content item and the tag associated with the concept, a level of relevance of a tag associated with a media content item to interests of the user, whether a media content item is provided by a connection of the user on a social networking system, or a popularity of a media content item in the social networking system; and selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item based on the scoring.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: receiving from a user, a selection of a transition marker associated with a concept reflected in a first media content item to cause a transition from the first media content item, wherein the transition marker follows a motion trajectory associated with the concept; configuring a transition between the first media content item and a second media content item reflecting the concept, wherein the transition is configured based in part on orientation data of the first media content item and the second media content item being within one or more threshold difference values, wherein the orientation data is determined based in part on visual indicators of the first media content item and the second media content item in relation to the concept; and providing the transition for the user in response to the selection.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the computing system to further perform: determining a plurality of media content items based on a tag associated with the concept; and selecting a media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein a type of the first media content item is at least one of an image, video, virtual content, or audio content.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determining the plurality of media content items is further based on inclusion by each of the plurality of media content items of the tag associated with the concept.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items comprises: scoring each of the plurality of media content items based at least on one of a degree of similarity between a tag associated with a media content item and the tag associated with the concept, a level of relevance of a tag associated with a media content item to interests of the user, whether a media content item is provided by a connection of the user on a social networking system, or a popularity of a media content item in the social networking system; and selecting the media content item from the plurality of media content items as the second media content item based on the scoring.
</claims>
</document>
