<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/02,G06Q50/12,G08B21/04,G08B25/10,G08B5/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESILIENCE MAGNUM IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, ERIC
ATTARIAN, ELIE
CHANG, MICHAEL
COZEAN, RONALD
ELWOOD, JOHN
HORVATH, MEGAN
MORDETZKY, DAVID EDWARD
PYROS, ANTHONY JOHN
ROSEN, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65896218
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hospitality light
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for hospitality light are provided. A hospitality light can determine characteristics of the environment in which the hospitality light is installed, determine capabilities of hospitality light, determine one or more objectives of the installation of hospitality light related to providing a hospitality service to a guest in the environment, perform a self-configuration of hospitality light according to the determined one or more objectives, and determine and execute suitable actions for hospitality light to perform to achieve the determined one or more objectives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hospitality light bulb configured for installation in a light fixture, the hospitality light bulb comprising: one or more instruments; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an operation component that: employs at least one instrument of the one or more instruments to monitor a guest in an environment in which hospitality light bulb is installed; in response to a determination of one or more characteristics associated with the guest in the environment, determine, by the hospitality light bulb, one or more actions to perform to achieve one or more objectives of the installation of the hospitality light bulb related to providing a hospitality service to the guest in the environment based on the one or more characteristics; and executes the at least one action.
2. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, wherein the at least one objective comprises an automatic check-in operation of the guest, and the at least one action comprises: locate a reservation of the guest; identify a guest room in the environment for the guest; and check the guest into the guest room.
3. The hospitality light bulb of claim 2, wherein the at least one action comprises projection of a light output in the environment from the hospitality light bulb that provides a visual indication of a direction in which the guest should travel to get to the guest room.
4. The hospitality light bulb of claim 2, wherein the at least one action comprises coordinating with at least one other hospitality light bulb to project light outputs in the environment providing visual indications of directions in which the guest should travel to get to the guest room.
5. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, wherein the at least one objective comprises a concierge operation, and the at least one action comprises: based on the at least one characteristic, determine a concierge service required by the guest; and execute an action the implements the concierge service.
6. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, wherein the concierge service is one of a dining reservation, an activity reservation, directions to a destination, or a transportation arrangement.
7. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, wherein the at least one objective comprises a housekeeping operation, and the at least one action comprises: determine that the guest is not in a guest room in the environment assigned to the guest; and transmit a notification to a housekeeping staff in the environment to initiate a cleaning of the guest room.
8. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, wherein the at least one objective comprises a housekeeping operation, and the at least one action comprises: determine a type of hanging tag hanging on an outside door handle of a door of a guest room in the environment; and transmit a notification to a housekeeping staff in the environment to initiate or delay a housekeeping operation of the guest room according to the type of hanging tag.
9. The hospitality light bulb of claim 1, further comprising a configuration component that: employs the at least one instrument to determine characteristics of the environment, determines one or more capabilities of the hospitality light bulb, and determines the at least one objective based on the characteristics and the one or more capabilities.
10. The hospitality light bulb of claim 9, wherein the configuration component further configures at least one setting of at least one parameter of the hospitality light bulb to achieve the at least one objective.
11. A hospitality light comprising: a hospitality light fixture; a hospitality light bulb configured for installation in the hospitality light fixture; one or more instruments located in the hospitality light bulb; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an operation component that: employs at least one instrument of the one or more instruments to monitor a guest in an environment in which the hospitality light is installed; in response to a determination of one or more characteristics associated with the guest in the environment, determine, by the hospitality light, one or more actions to perform to achieve one or more objectives of the installation of the hospitality light related to providing a hospitality service to the guest in the environment based on the one or more characteristics; and executes the at least one action.
12. The hospitality light of claim 11, wherein the one or more characteristics relates to a physical information of the environment, a device information of one or more devices in the environment, or an attribute of the guest.
13. The hospitality light of claim 11, wherein the one or more objectives relate to at least one of a customer service objective, a safety objective, an economic objective, a notification objective, a coordination objective, a time management objective, or a workflow management objective.
14. The hospitality light of claim 11, further comprising a configuration component that probes a system bus of the hospitality light to determine the one or more capabilities of the of the hospitality light bulb.
15. The hospitality light of claim 14, wherein the operation component further determines the at least one action based on the determined one or more capabilities of the of the hospitality light bulb.
16. The hospitality light of claim 11, wherein the one or more actions comprises coordination with at least one other hospitality light to perform a hospitality function to satisfy the one or more objectives.
17. A method comprising: determining, by a hospitality light bulb via one or more instruments within the hospitality light bulb, one or more characteristics of an environment in which hospitality light bulb is installed; determining, by the hospitality light bulb, one or more capabilities of the hospitality light bulb; generating, by the hospitality light bulb, one or more objectives for the hospitality light bulb related to providing a hospitality service to a guest in the environment based on the one or more characteristics and the one or more capabilities; and configuring, by the hospitality light bulb, at least one setting of at least one parameter of the hospitality light bulb to achieve the one or more objectives.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: monitoring, by the hospitality light bulb, the guest in the environment using the one or more instruments; in response to a determining an attribute associated with the guest in the environment, determine, by the hospitality light bulb, one or more actions to perform to achieve one or more objectives of the installation of the hospitality light bulb related to providing the hospitality service to the guest in the environment based on the one or more characteristics; executing, by the hospitality light bulb, the one or more actions.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the executing the one or more actions comprises recommending an activity for the guest to participate based the attribute.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the executing the one or more actions comprises employing, by the hospitality light bulb, at least one other instrument of the one or more instruments to remotely control a device to perform a hospitality function related to the hospitality service.
</claims>
</document>
