<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/28,G06F16/93,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
DULAM, GANESWARA RAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055133
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying homogenous clusters
</title>

<abstract>
Homogeneous clusters are generated from a first plurality of documents for generation of regular expressions. Documents that share similar characteristics are clustered, and for each cluster, features are generated for use by a homogeneity model to determine a homogeneity score for the cluster. Clusters determined to be homogenous are sent to a regular expression generator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for generating homogeneous clusters from a first plurality of documents for generation of regular expressions, the method comprising: clustering the first plurality of documents into a first plurality of clusters, wherein each of the first plurality of documents is included in only one of the clusters, wherein each of the clusters includes one or more of the documents and wherein the documents in each cluster share certain characteristics more closely with each other than the documents of the other clusters in the first plurality of clusters; for each cluster in the first plurality of clusters: generating a word distribution for each document in the cluster; assigning, using the word distribution, each word to a probability group; determining features for the cluster based on a percentage of words in each probability group; determining a homogeneity score by applying a model to the features for the cluster, wherein the model was generated using manually generated training data; and sending those of the first plurality of clusters for which the homogeneity score exceeds a homogeneity threshold to an automatic regular expression generator.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the word distribution indicates in which documents in the cluster that each word in each document occurs.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the assigning each word to a probability group includes using a percentage value that indicates what percentage of documents in the cluster each word occurs at least once.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the probability groups bin each word within a predetermined number of probability groups.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the predetermined number of probability groups is 10.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is a logistic regression model.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: assigning documents in a second plurality of documents to the first plurality of clusters using the regular expressions, wherein the first plurality of documents comprises a plurality of error messages and wherein each cluster corresponds to one or more related software bugs and wherein the second plurality of documents corresponds to a more recent plurality of error messages.
8. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium that provides instructions for generating homogeneous clusters from a first plurality of documents for generation of regular expressions that, if executed by a processor, are configurable to cause said processor to perform operations comprising: clustering the first plurality of documents into a first plurality of clusters, wherein each of the first plurality of documents is included in only one of the clusters, wherein each of the clusters includes one or more of the documents and wherein the documents in each cluster share certain characteristics more closely with each other than the documents of the other clusters in the first plurality of clusters; for each cluster in the first plurality of clusters: generating a word distribution for each document in the cluster; assigning, using the word distribution, each word to a probability group; determining features for the cluster based on a percentage of words in each probability group; determining a homogeneity score by applying a model to the features for the cluster, wherein the model was generated using manually generated training data; and sending those of the first plurality of clusters for which the homogeneity score exceeds a homogeneity threshold to an automatic regular expression generator.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the word distribution indicates in which documents in the cluster that each word in each document occurs.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the assigning each word to a probability group includes using a percentage value that indicates what percentage of documents in the cluster each word occurs at least once.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the probability groups bin each word within a predetermined number of probability groups.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the predetermined number of probability groups is 10.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the model is a logistic regression model.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, the operations further comprising: assigning documents in a second plurality of documents to the first plurality of clusters using the regular expressions, wherein the first plurality of documents comprises a plurality of error messages and wherein each cluster corresponds to one or more related software bugs and wherein the second plurality of documents corresponds to a more recent plurality of error messages.
15. A system for generating homogeneous clusters from a first plurality of documents for generation of regular expressions, the system comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, coupled to the processor, storing instructions which, when executed by the processor, are configurable to cause the system to: cluster the first plurality of documents into a first plurality of clusters, wherein each of the first plurality of documents is included in only one of the clusters, wherein each of the clusters includes one or more of the documents and wherein the documents in each cluster share certain characteristics more closely with each other than the documents of the other clusters in the first plurality of clusters; for each cluster in the first plurality of clusters: generate a word distribution for each document in the cluster; assign, using the word distribution, each word to a probability group; determine features for the cluster based on a percentage of words in each probability group; determine a homogeneity score by applying a model to the features for the cluster, wherein the model was generated using manually generated training data; and send those of the first plurality of clusters for which the homogeneity score exceeds a homogeneity threshold to an automatic regular expression generator.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the word distribution indicates in which documents in the cluster that each word in each document occurs.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the assignment of each word to a probability group is based on a percentage value that indicates what percentage of documents in the cluster each word occurs at least once.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the probability groups bin each word within a predetermined number of probability groups.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the predetermined number of probability groups is 10.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the system to: assign documents in a second plurality of documents to the first plurality of clusters using the regular expressions, wherein the first plurality of documents comprises a plurality of error messages and wherein each cluster corresponds to one or more related software bugs and wherein the second plurality of documents corresponds to a more recent plurality of error messages.
</claims>
</document>
