<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/10,G06Q40/08,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLICK, BRYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64316127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for operating drones in response to an incident
</title>

<abstract>
A response system may be provided. The response system may include a security system and an autonomous drone. The security system includes a security sensor and a controller. The drone includes a processor, a memory in communication with the processor, and a drone sensor. The processor may be programmed to link the drone to the controller, build a virtual navigation map of the coverage area based, at least in part, upon initial sensor data stored by the drone, determine that the coverage area is unoccupied, deploy the drone from a docking station, control movement of the drone within the coverage area based upon the virtual navigation map, collect drone sensor data of the coverage area using the drone sensor, and/or analyze the collected drone sensor data to identify an abnormal condition within the coverage area, the abnormal condition including at least one of damage or theft occurring within the coverage area.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A response system comprising: a security system comprising a security sensor and a security controller, the security system associated with a coverage area; and an autonomous drone, the drone comprising a processor, a memory in communication with the processor, and at least one drone sensor, wherein the processor is programmed to: link the drone to the security controller; determine that the coverage area is unoccupied; deploy the drone from a docking station; control movement of the drone within the coverage area; collect drone sensor data of the coverage area using the at least one drone sensor; analyze the collected drone sensor data to identify an abnormal condition within the coverage area; and calculate a repair cost of the abnormal condition by comparing the analyzed drone sensor data to an inventory list stored in the memory, wherein the inventory list includes data associated with at least one of a personal article and a home characteristic of the coverage area.
2. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the coverage area includes an interior of a building.
3. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: build a virtual navigation map of the coverage area based, at least in part, upon initial sensor data stored by the drone; and control movement of the drone within the coverage area based upon the virtual navigation map.
4. The response system in accordance with claim 3, wherein the processor is further programmed to: deploy the drone to navigate within the coverage area; collect the initial sensor data using the at least one drone sensor; and store the initial sensor data within the memory to build the virtual navigation map.
5. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to receive security sensor data from the security sensor, the security sensor data indicating the coverage area is unoccupied.
6. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to deploy the drone from the docking station after a predetermined period of time.
7. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to trigger an insurance event associated with the coverage area based on the analyzed drone sensor data, wherein the insurance event includes at least one of generating an insurance claim and calculating an insurance estimate.
8. The response system in accordance with claim 1, the processor is further programmed to: determine a corrective action that mitigates damage from the abnormal condition; and prompt the corrective action to be performed.
9. The response system in accordance with claim 8, wherein the processor is further programmed to transmit a command to the security controller to perform the corrective action, wherein security controller causes the security system to perform the corrective action in response to the command.
10. The response system in accordance with claim 8, wherein the processor is further programmed to cause the drone to perform the corrective action using a response device, the response device comprising at least one of a flashlight, a speaker, an alarm, a fire extinguisher, a chemical device, and a tagging device.
11. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to transmit a notification indicating the abnormal condition occurred to a user device associated with the coverage area.
12. The response system in accordance with claim 11, wherein the processor is further programmed to automatically navigate the drone to the docking station after collecting the sensor data.
13. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the abnormal condition includes damage occurring within the coverage area.
14. The response system in accordance with claim 1, wherein the abnormal condition includes theft occurring within the coverage area.
15. A computer-implemented method for analyzing sensor data of a coverage area using a response system, the response system including an autonomous drone and a security system including a security controller, said method comprising: linking the drone to the security controller; determining that a coverage area associated with the security system is unoccupied; deploying the drone from a docking station; navigating, by the drone, through the coverage area; collecting, by the drone, drone sensor data of the coverage area using at least one drone sensor; analyzing the collected drone sensor data to identify an abnormal condition within the coverage area; and calculating a repair cost of the abnormal condition by comparing the analyzed drone sensor data to an inventory list stored in a memory of the drone, wherein the inventory list includes data associated with at least one of a personal article and a home characteristic of the coverage area.
16. The computer-implemented method in accordance with claim 15, wherein the coverage area includes an interior of a building.
17. The computer-implemented method in accordance with claim 15, wherein navigating through the coverage area further comprises: building a virtual navigation map of the coverage area based, at least in part, upon initial sensor data stored by the drone; and navigating, by the drone, through the coverage area based upon the virtual navigation map.
18. The computer-implemented method in accordance with claim 17, wherein building the virtual navigation map further comprises: deploying the drone to navigate within the coverage area; collecting the initial sensor data using the at least one drone sensor; and storing the initial sensor data by the drone to build the virtual navigation map.
19. The computer-implemented method in accordance with claim 15, wherein determining that the coverage area is unoccupied further comprises receiving security sensor data from a security sensor associated with the security controller, wherein the security sensor data indicates the coverage area is unoccupied.
20. The computer-implemented method in accordance with claim 15, wherein deploying the drone from the docking station further comprises deploying the drone after a predetermined period of time.
</claims>
</document>
