<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/00,B25J9/16,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRAIN CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
IZHIKEVICH, EUGENE
KAZEMI, MOSLEM
LAURENT, PATRYK
PONULAK, FILIP
SINYAVSKIY, OLEG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53007605
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and methods for haptic training of robots
</title>

<abstract>
Robotic devices may be trained by a trainer guiding the robot along a target trajectory using physical contact with the robot. The robot may comprise an adaptive controller configured to generate control commands based on one or more of the trainer input, sensory input, and/or performance measure. The trainer may observe task execution by the robot. Responsive to observing a discrepancy between the target behavior and the actual behavior, the trainer may provide a teaching input via a haptic action. The robot may execute the action based on a combination of the internal control signal produced by a learning process of the robot and the training input. The robot may infer the teaching input based on a comparison of a predicted state and actual state of the robot. The robot's learning process may be adjusted in accordance with the teaching input so as to reduce the discrepancy during a subsequent trial.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a robot comprising: determining a first control signal associated with an environmental context of the robot; causing, based at least in part on the determined first control signal, the robot to perform a task characterized by a target trajectory; determining the target trajectory based on a prediction module, the prediction module configured to receive the first control signal and a sensory input; and adjusting an actual trajectory based on response to observing a discrepancy between the actual trajectory and the target trajectory, the adjusting of the actual trajectory comprises determining a second control signal configured to cooperate with the first control signal to cause the robot to transition the actual trajectory towards the target trajectory in a subsequent performance of the task in the environmental context.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a forward model of the robot using the prediction module, the forward model being representative of a predicted future state of the robot after executing the first control signal.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a first control signal comprising a routine learned from an operator guiding a robot through the first routine through physical contact; receiving a second control signal generated based on the movements of the robot by the operator, the control signal comprising adjusting the first routine; and performing a learning process that modifies the first routine based on the second control signal.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending an input comprising sensor data, a control signal, and/or a learning signal to a neuromorphic processing system; and receiving an output from the neuromorphic processing system, the output comprising an indication of recognized object, a motor command, and/or other outputs associated with learning and operating the robot.
5. A robot apparatus, comprising: one or more actuators configured to maneuver the robot apparatus; a sensor module configured to convey information related to an environment of the robot apparatus; a controller operable in accordance with a learning process configured to, guide the robot apparatus using the one or more actuators to a target state in accordance with the information, determine a discrepancy between a target trajectory that corresponds to the target state and a current trajectory that corresponds to a current state, and update the learning process based on the determined discrepancy, wherein the updated learning process comprises a determination of a correction signal to guide the robot apparatus using the one or more actuators to the target state based on a subsequent conveyance of information by the sensor module; and a communications unit configured to enable the robot apparatus to send and receive data signals, the data signals comprising a learning, context, and/or control signals.
6. The robot apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller is further configured to: use a forward model of the robot to determine the target state and trajectory, wherein the forward model is representative of the robot at the target trajectory and the target state; calculate differences between a current state of the robot and the forward model when determining the discrepancy between a target trajectory that corresponds to the target state and a current trajectory that corresponds to a current state; and update the learning process based on the determined discrepancy.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the learning process is configured in accordance with a teaching signal.
8. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the determination of the discrepancy is based at least in part on a physical contact by a user, the physical contact comprises at least one of releasing, moving, manipulating, interacting with, and touching the robot apparatus.
9. The robot apparatus of claim 5, further comprising: a neuromorphic processing apparatus comprising a multilevel architecture designed to accomplish tasks of varying complexity associated with navigation, future state prediction, learning, and object detection.
10. The robot apparatus of claim 9, wherein the neuromorphic processing apparatus can further be configured to: receive an input comprising at least one learning signal; process the at least one signal in parallel with previous learning signals; and provide output signals comprising one or more of an indication of recognized object or a feature, a motor command, and/or other outputs for operating and teaching the robotic apparatus.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising a plurality of computer readable instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by one or more processors, configure the one or more processors to, determine, based on a context, a first control signal configured to transition a robotic apparatus to a first state; determine a discrepancy between a current trajectory associated with a current state, and a first trajectory associated with the first state, the discrepancy between the trajectories comprises a measurable difference, the first trajectory associated with the first state being determined based on a forward model of the robotic apparatus, the forward model being indicative of the first trajectory and position of the robotic apparatus at the first state; and determine a second control signal based on the discrepancy, the second control signal configured to transition the robotic apparatus to the current state.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors is further configured to execute the plurality of computer readable instructions to, change in the context which is configured to cause an adaptation of the learning process, the adaptation being configured to produce another version of a control signal, the change in context is determined by the robot apparatus receiving an input signal from an operator and/or sensor data comprising the context of the movement.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors is further configured to execute the plurality of computer readable instructions to, implement various aspects and operations associated with neuronal network operation.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: training the robot to perform a target task, the target task comprising either recognizing an object, approaching a target, or avoiding an obstacle.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: enabling the robot with reliable decision making as the robot travels the target trajectory.
16. The robot apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller operable in accordance with a learning process is configured to train the robot apparatus to perform a target task, the target task comprising either recognizing an object, approaching a target, or avoiding an obstacle.
17. The robot apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller operable in accordance with a learning process is configured to enable the robot apparatus with reliable decision making as the robot apparatus travels the target trajectory.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors is further configured to execute the plurality of computer readable instructions to, train the robotic apparatus to perform a target task, the target task comprising either recognizing an object, approaching a target, or avoiding an obstacle.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors is further configured to execute the plurality of computer readable instructions to, enable the robotic apparatus with reliable decision making as the robotic apparatus travels the first trajectory.
</claims>
</document>
