<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F12/14,G06F21/10,H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Amera IoT Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Daly, Christopher J.
Fleming, Max
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72944791
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for creating and using quantum resistant keys
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for securely communicating between a user device and a target device, which includes a user input receiving user inputs and a user device memory for storing at least one fixed dataset having a plurality of data bits and an inherent entropy. At least one predetermined harvest process is stored in ser device memory, which is operable within a main harvest process to distill the dataset to a predetermined bit length to define a private key of the user at a predetermined key length. A processor operates to execute the main harvest process to receive a unique user Personal Information Number (PIN) acquired by the user and having a plurality of digits associated therewith, and wherein the at least one predetermined harvest process is dependent on the user PIN and the value of at least one of the digits therein, such that the at least one predetermined harvest process is parameterized by the value of the at least one of the digits and operates differently for each value of the at least one of the digits. The processor applies the at least one predetermined harvest process to the dataset to distill the dataset down to the predetermined key length to define the private key, and then stores the private key to the user device. A target device memory and an encryption engine on the target device interface with a proximity-based link. The private key is transferred to the target device via the proximity-based link and an interface on the target device stores the transmitted private key in the target device memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for securely communicating between a user device and a target device, comprising: a user input for receiving inputs from a user of the user device; a user device memory for storing on the user device at least one known, fixed and unchanging dataset having a plurality of data bits and an inherent entropy, the dataset selectable by the user through the user input; at least one predetermined harvest process stored in the user device memory, the at least one predetermined harvest process operable within a main harvest process to distill the dataset to a predetermined bit length to define a private key of the user at a predetermined key length that is a subset of the dataset; a hardware processor operable to execute the main harvest process to: receive a unique user Personal Information Number (PIN) acquired by the user and having a plurality of digits associated with the user PIN, and wherein the at least one predetermined harvest process is dependent on the user PIN and a value of at least one of the digits of the user PIN, such that the at least one predetermined harvest process is parameterized by the value of the at least one of the digits and operates differently for each value of the at least one of the digits, apply the at least one predetermined harvest process parameterized by the at least one of the digits of the user PIN to the dataset to distill the dataset down to the predetermined key length to define the private key, wherein the private key can only be recreated with knowledge of the dataset, the user PIN and the predetermined harvesting process, and storing the private key to the user device; a target device memory on the target device; an encryption engine on the target device; a proximity-based communication link between the user device and the target device; a communication device communicating the private key from the user device to the target device via the proximity-based communication link; and an interface on the target device for storing the communicated private key in the target device memory, wherein the encryption engine is operable to encrypt communications from the target device with the stored private key in the target device memory and decrypt received communications with the stored private key in the target device memory.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the dataset comprises a digitized image, the image correlating to an external environment.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein each digit of the user PIN has multiple values.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein each digit of the user PIN has an alphanumeric value.
5. The system of claim 3, and further comprising a host, wherein the host generates a unique host factor for the user PIN and wherein: the at least one predetermined harvest process is parameterized by both the user PIN and the value of the at least one of the digits of the user PIN and the unique host factor; and the at least one predetermined harvest process requires the user PIN and the unique host factor to execute the at least one predetermined harvest process for applying the at least one predetermined harvest process to the dataset.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the host generates a plurality of unique host factors for the user PIN wherein only one of the unique host factors is used in a harvesting process to generate a private key for the user, such that each unique host factor can be used with the same dataset and user PIN to generate a different private key.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein there are a plurality of predetermined harvest processes operable within the main harvest process, each associated with a digit of the user PIN and wherein: for each selected digit in the user PIN, an operation of an associated and predetermined harvest process operates differently for each value of the selected digit; and wherein after all of the plurality of the predetermined harvest processes are applied to the dataset in the main harvest process, the main harvest process distilling the dataset to the predetermined key length to define the private key.
8. The system of claim 7, and further comprising a host, wherein the host generates a unique host factor for the user PIN and wherein: at least one of the plurality of predetermined harvest processes is parameterized by both the user PIN and the value of the at least one of the digits of the user PIN and the unique host factor; and the at least one of the plurality of predetermined harvest processes requires the user PIN and the unique host factor to execute the at least one of the plurality of predetermined harvest processes.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the interface on the target device for storing the communicated private key in the target device memory operates in a write only operation and a read of the target device memory on the target device through the proximity-based communication link of the private key is prohibited.
10. An apparatus for securing communications between a device and the apparatus, the apparatus comprising: a user input; a memory storing a plurality of known, fixed and unchanging datasets each having a plurality of data bits and an inherent entropy; a transceiver configured to communicate with a host system via a first communications channel, and to communicate with the device via a wireless channel established using on a proximity-based protocol; and a hardware processor configured to: receive an input via the user input indicating one of the datasets selected by a user, receive an input via the user input of a user personal identification number (PIN) selected by the user, access a host factor received via the transceiver from the host system, select a subset of data bits within the user selected dataset using a predetermined harvest process having deterministic dependence on both the user PIN and the host factor, the subset of data bits sufficient for a predetermined key length for a secret key, wherein the predetermined harvest process is parameterized by a value of at least one of a plurality of digits of the user PIN and operates differently for each value of the at least one of the digits, the predetermined harvest process is applied to the user selected dataset to distill the user selected dataset down to a predetermined bit length to define the secret key at the predetermined key length that is a subset of the user selected dataset, wherein the secret key can only be recreated with knowledge of the user selected dataset, the user PIN and the predetermined harvesting process, and forward the selected subset of data bits to the transceiver for transmission to the device via the wireless channel and storage in the device as the secret key for use in securing communications from the device to the apparatus.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the plurality of datasets are images, the user PIN includes an alphanumeric character string, and the host factor includes a hash value.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the predetermined harvest process selects the subset of data bits from an image corresponding to the user selected dataset by: one or more of rotating or inverting the image based on a value of a first alphanumeric character within the user PIN; scrambling pixels within the image based on a value of a second alphanumeric character within the user PIN; setting a horizontal start across rows within the image for sampling of the pixels within the image based on a value of a third alphanumeric character within the user PIN; setting a vertical start along columns within the image for the sampling of the pixels within the image based on a value of a fourth alphanumeric character within the user PIN; setting a nominal increment between successive pixels for the sampling of the pixels within the image based on a value of a fifth alphanumeric character within the user PIN; and implementing a scatter pattern for successive pixel selection during the sampling of the pixels within the image based on a value of a sixth alphanumeric character within the user PIN and the hash value within the host factor.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the scatter pattern is based on successive portions of the hash value multiplied by a factor for the sixth alphanumeric character.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein a portion of the hash value controls a selection order for alphanumeric characters from the user PIN for each of the first alphanumeric character through the sixth alphanumeric character.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein a position of the user within a group controls a selection order for alphanumeric characters from the user PIN for each of the first alphanumeric character through the sixth alphanumeric character.
16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the proximity-based protocol is one of a near field communication (NFC) protocol and a Bluetooth® protocol.
17. A method for securely communicating between a user device and a target device, comprising steps of: a user of the user device having a unique user Personal Information Number (PIN) acquired by the user and having a plurality of digits associated with the user PIN; accessing by a user of the user device a known, fixed and unchanging dataset having a plurality of data bits and an inherent entropy; defining a predetermined key length for a private key that is a subset of the dataset; receiving, from a host, a unique host factor that is generated by the host for the user PIN; harvesting the subset of the dataset at the predetermined key length from the dataset, the step of harvesting including steps of: accessing a predetermined harvest process, the predetermined harvest process parameterized by the user PIN and a value of at least one of the plurality of digits of the user PIN and by the received unique host factor, and applying the predetermined harvest process to the dataset to distill the dataset down to the predetermined key length to define the private key, wherein the step of applying requires the user PIN and the unique host factor to parameterize execution of the accessed predetermined harvest process for applying the predetermined harvest process to the dataset, such that the predetermined harvest process operates differently for each value of the at least one of the plurality of digits of the user PIN, wherein the private key can only be recreated with knowledge of the dataset and the predetermined harvesting process; storing the private key to the user device; providing a memory on the target device; providing an encryption engine on the target device; providing a proximity-based communication link between the user device and the target device; transmitting the private key to the target device via the proximity-based communication link; and storing the transmitted private key in the memory on the target device, wherein the encryption engine is operable to encrypt communications from the target device with the stored private key in the memory on the target device and decrypt received communications with the stored private key in the memory on the target device.
18. The method of claim 17, and further comprising the steps of: accessing an image, the image correlating to an external environment; and converting the image to an image dataset, the image dataset corresponding to the dataset.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein: the predetermined harvest process is dependent on the user PIN and the value of the at least one of the digits of the user PIN.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein each digit of the user PIN has multiple values, and wherein each digit of the user PIN has an alphanumeric value.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein there are a plurality of predetermined harvest processes, each associated with a digit of the user PIN and wherein the step of applying comprises: sequentially selecting digits in the user PIN; for each selected digit in the user PIN, applying an associated and predetermined harvest process to the dataset, wherein an operation of the associated and predetermined harvest process operates differently for each value of the selected digit; and wherein after all of the plurality of predetermined harvest processes are applied to the dataset, the dataset is distilled to the predetermined key length to define the private key.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the host generates a plurality of unique host factors for the user PIN wherein only one of the unique host factors is used in a harvesting process to generate a private key for the user, such that each unique host factor can be used with a same dataset and user PIN to generate a different private key.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined harvest process is stored on the user device.
24. The method of claim 17, where the transmitting of the private key and storing in the memory on the target device is a write only operation and a read of the memory on the target device through the proximity-based communication link of the private key is prohibited.
25. A method for securely communicating between a user device and a target device, comprising steps of: a user of the user device having a unique user Personal Information Number (PIN) acquired by the user and having a plurality of digits associated with the user PIN; accessing a known, fixed and unchanging image having an inherent entropy; converting the image to a dataset having the plurality of digits; defining a predetermined key length for a private key that is a subset of the dataset; receiving a unique host factor from a host that is generated by the host for the user PIN; harvesting the subset of the dataset at the predetermined key length from the dataset, the step of harvesting including steps of: accessing a predetermined harvest process, the predetermined harvest process parameterized by the user PIN and a value of at least one of the digits of the user PIN and by the received host factor, applying the predetermined harvest process to the dataset to distill the dataset to the predetermined key length to define the private key, wherein the step of applying requires the user PIN and the unique host factor to parameterize execution of the accessed predetermined harvest process for applying the predetermined harvest process to the dataset, such that the predetermined harvest process operates differently for each value of the at least one of the digits, and wherein the private key can only be recreated with knowledge of the dataset and the predetermined harvesting process and receipt of the unique host factor; and storing the private key to the user device; providing a memory on the target device; providing an encryption engine on the target device; providing a proximity-based communication link between the user device and the target device; transmitting the private key to the target device via the proximity-based communication link; and storing the transmitted private key in the memory on the target device, wherein the encryption engine is operable to encrypt communications from the target device with the stored private key in the memory on the target device and decrypt received communications with the stored private key in the memory on the target device.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein each digit of the user PIN has multiple values, wherein each digit of the user PIN has an alphanumeric value.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein there are a plurality of predetermined harvest processes, each associated with a digit of the user PIN and wherein the step of applying comprises: sequentially selecting digits in the user PIN; for each selected digit in the user PIN, applying an associated and predetermined harvest process to the dataset, wherein an operation of the associated and predetermined harvest process operates differently for each value of the selected digit; and wherein after all of the plurality of predetermined harvest processes are applied to the dataset, the associated and predetermined harvest process distilling the dataset to the predetermined key length to define the private key.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein receiving the unique host factor receives a plurality of unique host factors for the user PIN generated by the host wherein only one of the unique host factors is used in a harvesting process to generate a private key for the user, such that each unique host factor can be used with the same dataset and user PIN to generate a different and unique private key.
</claims>
</document>
