<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/908,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0485,G06F40/279
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAMESH BHAT, VIDHYA
SULTAN, ZIAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66668673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for presentation of content items relating to a topic
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides systems and methods that provide a lean-back, interactive experience that enables a user to browse and understand content items (e.g., news articles or reactions) that provide different perspectives around a topic (e.g., a news story). In particular, the systems and methods can provide context around a topic by assembling a wide-range of interesting content around a topic and seamlessly allowing users to scan through articles by surfacing unique information contained in them. The systems and methods of the present disclosure can read, understand, and organizes thousands of documents around a topic, hence allowing easy consumption of news.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method to provide an informational display, the method comprising: identifying, by one or more computing devices and from multiple distinct sources of content items, a plurality of content items that relate to a topic; generating, by the one or more computing device, a plurality of cards respectively for the plurality of content items; generating, by the one or more computing devices, one or more content descriptors for each of the plurality of content items, wherein generating, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more content descriptors comprises generating, by the one or more computing devices, a respective snippet for at least one of the plurality of content items; and providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, a user interface that automatically cycles through the plurality of cards respectively associated with the plurality of content items such that each of the plurality of cards is presented for a respective predefined presentation period, and wherein, for each of the plurality of cards, the user interface presents at least one of the one or more content descriptors generated for the content item that corresponds to such card; wherein providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, the user interface that automatically cycles through the plurality of cards comprises, for each of the at least one content items for which a respective snippet was generated: providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, the card associated with the content item without the snippet for an initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period for the card; determining, by the one or more computing devices, that the initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period has expired; and responsive to a determination that the initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period has expired: providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, both the card and the snippet for a secondary portion of the respective predefined presentation period for the card.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the topic comprises a news story, the plurality of content items comprise one or more news articles that relate to the news story, and the multiple distinct sources of content items comprise multiple distinct news publishers.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user interface visually scrolls through the plurality of cards and wherein, for each of the plurality of cards, the user interface visually presents on such card while such card is displayed the at least one of the one or more content descriptors.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of predefined presentation periods are consecutive and non-overlapping.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the respective snippet generated for the at least one content item comprises a textual summary of the content item or a quote extracted from the content item.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, both the card and the snippet comprises overlaying the snippet on the card with a typewriter effect in which textual characters included in the snippet are sequentially added on the card over a period of time.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, both the card and the snippet comprises reducing a brightness of a background image of the card upon visual presentation of the snippet on the card.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more content descriptors for at least one of the content items comprise an opinion level descriptor that describes a level of opinion contained in such content item.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the cards comprise dynamic imagery.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of content items comprises a movie and the user interface performs playback of the movie in the card associated with such content item.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the user interface includes a progress bar that has a plurality of disconnected segments that respectively correspond to the plurality of cards, wherein the user interface progressively fills the plurality of disconnected segments as the user interface automatically cycles through the plurality of cards.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the one or more computing devices, the plurality of content items that relate to the topic comprises ranking, by the one or more computing devices, a plurality of candidate content items based on content diversity.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein ranking, by the one or more computing devices, the plurality of candidate content items based on content diversity comprises ranking, by the one or more computing devices, the plurality of candidate content items based at least in part on one or more of the following features: salient terms; persons discussed; publisher; level of opinion; and audience type.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein generating, by the one or more computing devices, one or more content descriptors for each of the plurality of content items comprises, for at least one of the plurality of content items: extracting, by the one or more computing devices, a quote that is associated with an entity that has a knowledge graph entry.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the one or more computing devices, the plurality of content items that relate to the topic comprises identifying, by the one or more computing devices, a social media post that is embedded within at least a threshold number of candidate content items that relate to the topic.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: utilizing a machine learning resource to: evaluate one or more user interactions with said user interface provided for display; and determine at least one adjustment to said user interface based on said user interactions with said user interface.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions that, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform operations, the operations comprising: identifying, by the one or more computing devices and from multiple distinct sources of content items, a plurality of content items that relate to a topic; generating, by the one or more computing device, a plurality of cards respectively for the plurality of content items; generating, by the one or more computing devices, a respective snippet for at least one of the plurality of content items; and providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, a user interface that automatically cycles through the plurality of cards respectively associated with the plurality of content items such that each card is presented for a respective predefined presentation period; wherein providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, the user interface that automatically cycles through the plurality of cards comprises, for each of the at least one content items for which a respective snippet was generated: providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, the card associated with the content item without the snippet for an initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period for the card; determining, by the one or more computing devices, that the initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period has expired; and responsive to a determination that the initial portion of the respective predefined presentation period has expired: providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, both the card and the snippet for a secondary portion of the respective predefined presentation period for the card.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein: at least a first card of the plurality of cards comprises a still image graphic; and providing for display, by the one or more computing devices, the user interface that automatically cycles through the plurality of cards comprises moving, by the one or more computing devices, the still image graphic during the respective predefined presentation period for the first card.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein moving, by the one or more computing devices, the still image graphic during the respective predefined presentation period for the first card comprises zooming, by the one or more computing devices, into the still image graphic during the respective predefined presentation period for the first card.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise extracting, by the one or more computing devices, the still image graphic is extracted from the content item that corresponds to the first card.
</claims>
</document>
