<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/12,H04W12/02,H04W12/06,H04W8/04,H04W8/18,H04W84/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANCOCK, PAUL R.
BLOSSOM, RYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69639240
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for policy-based extensible authentication protocol authentication
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a device that includes a processing system and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations such as receiving an extensible authentication protocol (EAP) authentication message addressed to an EAP authentication server from a communication device; extracting information from the EAP authentication message; determining whether to reject a request in the EAP authentication message of the communication device based on the information extracted; and sending an EAP Failure message to the communication device based on the determining indicating that the request should be rejected. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An access point, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving, by the access point, an extensible authentication protocol (EAP) authentication message addressed to an EAP authentication server from a communication device, wherein the access point is in a communication path to the EAP authentication server, and wherein the access point is different from the EAP authentication server; extracting, by the access point, information from the EAP authentication message; determining, by the access point, whether a cached response associated with the communication device is stored in a cache memory; sending by the access point, in a first case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device rejects the communication device, a first EAP Failure message to the communication device; sending by the access point, in a second case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device accepts the communication device, the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server; determining by the access point, in a third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, whether to the communication device is to be offloaded from a communications network based on an international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) for the communication device derived from the information extracted; and sending by the access point, in the third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, a second EAP Failure message to the communication device based on the determining in the third case indicating that the communication device should not be offloaded.
2. The access point of claim 1, wherein the processing system comprises a plurality of processors operating in a distributed processing environment.
3. The access point of claim 1, wherein the first EAP Failure message or the second EAP failure message is sent in a middle of an exchange of EAP authentication messages between the communication device and the EAP authentication server, and wherein the operations further comprise forwarding the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server based on the determining in the third case indicating that the communication device should be offloaded.
4. The access point of claim 1, wherein the extracting further comprises identifying a media access control (MAC) address of a WiFi access point (AP) associated with the communication device from the EAP authentication message.
5. The access point of claim 1, wherein the extracting further comprises identifying the IMSI in the EAP authentication message.
6. The access point of claim 1, wherein the extracting further comprises identifying a media access control (MAC) address of the communication device found in the EAP authentication message.
7. The access point of claim 6, wherein the IMSI of the communication device is identified by sending a query to a database comprising a media access control (MAC) address of the communication device.
8. The access point of claim 7, wherein the database is stored in the memory of the access point.
9. The access point of claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise receiving a result from an external device indicating whether the communication device is to be offloaded to a WiFi network.
10. The access point of claim 9, wherein the result is determined by the external device by measuring an amount of communications traffic load on a radio access network (RAN) associated with the communication device.
11. The access point of claim 9, wherein the result is determined by the external device based on a status of a subscription plan of a subscriber using the communication device.
12. A machine-readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: extracting information from an EAP authentication message sent by a communication device to an EAP authentication server, wherein the processing system is in a communication path to the EAP authentication server, and wherein the processing system is different from the EAP authentication server; determining whether a cached response associated with the communication device is stored in a cache memory; sending, in a first case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device rejects the communication device, a first EAP Failure message to the communications device; sending, in a second case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device accepts the communication device, the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server; determining in a third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, whether the communication device is to be offloaded from a communications network based in part on an international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) for the communication device derived from the information extracted; and sending, in the third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, a second EAP Failure message to the communication device based on the determining in the third case indicating that the communication device should not be offloaded.
13. The machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise forwarding the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server based on the determining in the third case indicating that the communication device should be offloaded.
14. The machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise sending a query to a database comprising a media access control (MAC) address of the communication device and receiving the IMSI of the communication device.
15. The machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the determining in the third case decides whether to offload the communication device from the communications network to WiFi based on the IMSI of the communication device and a location of the communication device, wherein the information extracted comprises the location of the communication device, and wherein the processing system comprises a plurality of processors operating in a distributed processing environment.
16. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the location of the communication device is determined based on a MAC address of a WiFi access point associated with the communication device.
17. The machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the information extracted comprises the location of the communication device, and wherein the location is determined from global positioning system (GPS) information.
18. A method, comprising: extracting, by a processing system including a processor, information from an EAP authentication message sent by a communication device to an EAP authentication server, wherein the processing system is in a communication path to the EAP authentication server, and wherein the processing system is different from the EAP authentication server; determining, by the processing system, whether a cached response associated with the communication device is stored in a cache memory; sending by the processing system, in a first case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device rejects the communication device, a first EAP Failure message to the communication device; sending by the processing system, in a second case that the cached response associated with the communication device is stored in the cache memory and that the cached response associated with the communication device accepts the communication device, the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server; determining by the processing system, in a third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, whether to offload the communication device to a WiFi network based on an international mobile subscriber identity (IMSI) for the communication device derived from the information extracted; sending by the processing system, in the third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, a second EAP Failure message to the communication device based on the determining in the third case indicating that the offload should be denied; and forwarding by the processing system, in the third case that a cached response associated with the communication device is not stored in the cache memory, the EAP authentication message to the EAP authentication server based on the determining in the third case indicating that the offload should occur.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining, by the processing system, a location of the communication device from a MAC address of a WiFi access point associated with the communication device, and determining, by the processing system whether to offload the communication device to the WiFi network based on the location.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein an external device assists the processing system in determining in the third case whether to offload the communication device to the WiFi network by measuring an amount of communications traffic load on a radio access network (RAN) associated with the communication device.
</claims>
</document>
