<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/00,G01S5/02,H04W4/02,H04W4/029,H04W64/00,H04W8/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAPPUS, RUDOLPH
BROTMAN, HERANI SOEWARTO
WHITE, JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61758533
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Inferring user equipment location data based on sector transition
</title>

<abstract>
Determining a location of a user equipment (UE) based on historical location data and historical sector transition data is disclosed. A correlation between historic location information and a historic sector transition can be determined. The correlation can be stored in a searchable data set. A location of a current UE can be inferred based on a sector transition of the current UE. The sector transition of the current UE can be searched against the data set to indicate a likely location of the current UE based on historical information. The searchable data set can be based on sparse location data enabling location determinations for a current UE that can otherwise lack location services. Moreover, an order of a sector transition can imbue a directionality to stored location information such that a likely location in a sector can be correlated to a transition from a prior sector of a network session of the UE.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining future location data corresponding to a future transition of a device to a first antenna from a second antenna based on a historical distribution of devices in an area and based on historical antenna transitions of the devices, wherein the historical distribution of the devices is based on historical location data for the devices in the area, wherein the historical antenna transitions relate to historical transitions of the devices to the first antenna from antennas, wherein the antennas comprise the second antenna, wherein the first antenna serves a first wireless network coverage area, and wherein the second antenna serves a second wireless network coverage area different than the first coverage area; and in response to determining a first occurrence of a first transition of the device to the first antenna from the second antenna, enabling access to a probable location of the device based on the future location data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the future location data indicates probable locations of the device comprising the probable location of the device, wherein the probable locations are ordered based on a determined likelihood of the device being at a future location in the area, and wherein the determined likelihood of the device being at the future location in the area is determined from the historical distribution of the devices.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the future location data is further based on supplementary data corresponding to the area.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the supplementary data comprises geographical information.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the first wireless network coverage area and the second wireless network coverage area at least partially overlap.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the future location data comprises an alternate future transition of the device to the first antenna from a third antenna, wherein the alternate future transition of the device is determined from the historical distribution of the devices in the area and the historical antenna transitions of the devices, wherein the antennas comprise the third antenna, and wherein the third antenna serves a third wireless network coverage area different than the first coverage area and the second coverage area.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein, in response to determining a second occurrence of a second transition of the device to the first antenna from the third antenna, enabling access to an alternate probable location of the device based on the alternate future transition comprised in the future location data.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the probable location of the device and the alternate probable location of the device indicate different probable locations of the device.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the probable location of the device and the alternate probable location of the device indicate a same probable location of the device.
10. A method, comprising: in response to receiving, by a device comprising a processor, location probability data, predicting a location of a user equipment that has transitioned to a first antenna from a different antenna based on the location probability data, wherein the location probability data indicates future locations of the user equipment ranked by a probability of the user equipment being at a future location of the future locations, wherein the probability is determined from historical location data of user equipments and corresponding historical antenna transitions by the user equipments to the first antenna from a second antenna, wherein the first antenna serves a first wireless network coverage area, wherein the second antenna serves a second wireless network coverage area, and wherein the different antenna serves a third wireless network coverage area; and enabling, by the device, access to location information for the location of the user equipment by a requesting device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the predicting the location of the user equipment based on the location probability data employs location probability data ranking the future locations of the user equipment by the probability of the user equipment being at the future location of the future locations, wherein the probability is further determined from additional corresponding historical antenna transitions by the user equipments to the first antenna from a third antenna, and wherein the third antenna serves a fourth wireless network coverage area.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the predicting the location of the user equipment based on the location probability data predicts a first location when the different antenna is determined to be the second antenna and a second location when the different antenna is determined to be the third antenna.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first location and the second location are different locations.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the first location and the second location are a same location.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the predicting the location of the user equipment based on the location probability data employs location probability data further based on supplementary data corresponding to an area associated with the historical location data.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the supplemental data comprises roadway topography information corresponding to the area.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining future location data corresponding to a future transition of a device to a first antenna from a different antenna other than the first antenna based on a historical distribution of devices in an area and based on historical antenna transitions of the devices, wherein the historical distribution of the devices is based on historical location data for the devices in the area, wherein the historical antenna transitions relate to historical transitions of the devices to the first antenna from antennas, and wherein the antennas comprise a second antenna and a third antenna, wherein the first antenna enables service in a first wireless network coverage area, wherein the second antenna enables service in a second wireless network coverage area, wherein the third antenna enables service in a third wireless network coverage area, and wherein the different antenna enables service in a fourth wireless network coverage area; and in response to determining the device is transitioning to the first antenna from the different antenna, enabling access to a probable location of the device based on the future location data.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the probable location of the device is a first location where the device is determined to be transitioning to the first antenna from the second antenna, wherein the probable location of the device is a second location where the device is determined to be transitioning to the first antenna from the third antenna, and wherein the first location is a different location than the second location.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the probable location of the device is a first location where the device is determined to be transitioning to the first antenna from the second antenna, wherein the probable location of the device is a second location where the device is determined to be transitioning to the first antenna from the third antenna, and wherein the first location is a same location as the second location.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determining the future location data is further based on supplementary data, and wherein the supplementary data comprises data selected from at least one of map data, traffic data, roadway data, or address data.
</claims>
</document>
