<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B06B1/00,G11C11/16,H01L27/22,H01L43/08,H01L43/10,H01S4/00,H01S5/02,H04B11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGTERA
</assignee>

<inventors>
TANKHILEVICH, BORIS, G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technique of high-speed magnetic recording based on manipulating pinning layer in magnetic tunnel junction-based memory by using terahertz magnon laser
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for novel technique of high-speed magnetic recording based on manipulating pinning layer in magnetic tunnel junction-based memory by using terahertz magnon laser is provided. The apparatus comprises a terahertz writing head configured to generate a tunable terahertz writing signal and a memory cell including a spacer that comprises a thickness configured based on Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction. The memory cell comprises two separate memory states: a first binary state and a second binary state; wherein the first binary memory state corresponds to a ferromagnetic sign of the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a first thickness value of the spacer; and wherein the second binary memory state corresponds to an antiferromagnetic sign of the Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a second thickness value of the spacer. The thickness of the spacer is manipulated by the tunable terahertz writing signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a terahertz writing head configured to generate a tunable terahertz writing signal comprising a voltage-based tunable magnon laser; and a memory cell comprising a bottom electrode coupled to a substrate, an antiferromagnetic layer coupled to said bottom electrode, a pinned layer that comprises a first ferromagnetic material in contact with said antiferromagnetic layer to configure a fixed magnetization direction of said pinned layer, a tunnel junction coupled to said pinned layer, a free layer that comprises a second ferromagnetic material configured to be magnetized in a first magnetized direction or a second magnetized direction based on said RKKY interaction, a top electrode coupled to said free layer, and a spacer that comprises a thickness configured based on Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction; said memory cell comprising two separate memory states: a first binary state and a second binary state; wherein said first binary memory state corresponds to a ferromagnetic sign of said Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a first thickness value of said spacer; and wherein said second binary memory state corresponds to an antiferromagnetic sign of said Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a second thickness value of said spacer; wherein said thickness of said spacer is manipulated by said tunable terahertz writing signal; wherein said first thickness value of said spacer corresponds to a first terahertz signal generated by said terahertz writing head; wherein said second thickness value of said spacer corresponds to a second terahertz signal generated by said terahertz writing head; and wherein said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction is configured to be modified based on a tunable terahertz writing signal applied to said spacer.
2. The apparatus of claim 1; wherein said voltage-based-tunable terahertz magnon laser further comprises: a voltage-based tunable terahertz magnon laser configured to generate a frequency tunable terahertz writing signal.
3. The apparatus of claim 1; wherein said voltage-based tunable terahertz magnon laser further comprises: a voltage-based tunable terahertz magnon laser configured to generate an amplitude tunable terahertz writing signal.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first magnetized direction is associated with a first binary state of said memory cell, and wherein said second magnetized direction is associated with a second binary state of said memory cell.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction is configured to be modified based on an amplitude of a tunable terahertz writing signal applied to said spacer.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction is configured to be modified based both on an amplitude and on a frequency of a tunable terahertz writing signal applied to said spacer.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said tunnel junction is selected from a group of materials consisting of: magnesium oxide (MgO), aluminum oxide (Al2O3), and spinel MgAl2O4.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said substrate is selected from a group of materials consisting of: gallium arsenide (GaAs), aluminum oxide (Al2O3), aluminum nitride (AlN), indium-tin-oxide (InTnO), silicon (Si), silicone on sapphire (SoS), and magnesium oxide (MgO).
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said bottom electrode is selected from a group of materials consisting of: cobalt iron alloy (Co0.5Fe0.5), silver (Ag), gold (Au); platinum (Pt), cobalt (Co), palladium (Pd), titanium (Ti), and titanium tungsten (TiW).
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said spacer that comprises a thickness configured based on Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction is selected from a group of materials consisting of: Ruthenium (Ru); and Copper (Cu).
11. A method of magnetic recording by employing a memory cell, comprising a bottom electrode coupled to a substrate, an antiferromagnetic layer coupled to said bottom electrode, a pinned layer that comprises a first ferromagnetic material in contact with said antiferromagnetic layer to configure a fixed magnetization direction of said pinned layer, a tunnel junction coupled to said pinned layer, a spacer that comprises a thickness configured based on Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction, a free layer that comprises a second ferromagnetic material configured to be magnetized in a first magnetized direction or a second magnetized direction based on said RKKY interaction, and a top electrode coupled to said free layer; said memory cell comprising two separate memory states: a first binary state and a second binary state; wherein said first binary memory state corresponds to a ferromagnetic sign of said Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a first thickness value of said spacer; and wherein said second binary memory state corresponds to an antiferromagnetic sign of said Ruderman-Kittel-Kasuya-Yosida (RKKY) interaction corresponding to a second thickness value of said spacer; wherein said thickness of said spacer is manipulated by said tunable terahertz writing signal; said method comprising: generating a tunable terahertz writing signal via a terahertz magnon laser; and modifying said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction of said memory cell based on said tunable terahertz writing signal.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein said generating comprises employing said terahertz magnon laser as an optical writing head for said memory cell.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein said modifying comprises modifying said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction of said memory cell based on an amplitude of said tunable terahertz writing signal.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein said modifying comprises modifying said first magnetized direction or said second magnetized direction associated with said RKKY interaction of said memory cell based on a frequency of said tunable terahertz writing signal.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying said tunable terahertz writing signal to said spacer.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: applying a bias voltage to shift a Fermi level of a spin injector of said terahertz magnon laser with respect to a Fermi level of a Magnon Gain Medium of said terahertz magnon laser to initiate generation of non-equilibrium magnons by injecting minority electrons into said Magnon Gain Medium, wherein injected minority electrons pass into high energy electronic states in a lower sub band with spin up of ferromagnetic material associated with said Magnon Gain Medium by flipping spin during an exchange process, wherein non-equilibrium magnons are generated during said exchange process, and wherein interaction between said non-equilibrium magnons causes generation of electromagnetic radiation associated with said tunable terahertz writing signal.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising: tuning a frequency of said tunable terahertz writing signal by changing a value of said bias voltage.
</claims>
</document>
