<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/04,A61B5/042,A61B5/044,G06F3/0488,G06T3/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSTON SCIENTIFIC SCIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEWART, BRIAN
BENNETT, NATHAN H.
KLEBANOV, DANIEL
BUHARIN, VASILIY E.
CAPELLINO, STEFANO
RAMASAMY, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64100713
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Display of multiple electrograms anatomical map
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a display device configured to present a cardiac map; and a processing unit configured to: receive electrical signals; generate the cardiac map; and facilitate display of the cardiac map, where each electrical signal corresponds to a map location. The processing unit is also configured to receive a user selection of a selected portion of the cardiac map, the selected portion including a set of map locations, each of the set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of a set of signals that is a subset of the received electrical signals. The set of map locations has a first spatial arrangement and the processing unit is configured to facilitate display of a set of electrical signal representations, each representation corresponding to one of the set of electrical signals, the set of electrical signal representations having a second spatial arrangement, which corresponds to the first spatial arrangement.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for facilitating display of cardiac information, the system comprising: a display device configured to present a cardiac map; and a processing unit configured to: receive a plurality of electrical signals sensed within a patient's heart; generate, based on the plurality of electrical signals, the cardiac map; facilitate display, via the display device, of the cardiac map, wherein each of the plurality of electrical signals corresponds to a cardiac map location; receive, from an input device, a user selection of a selected portion of the cardiac map, the selected portion comprising a set of map locations, each of the set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of a set of electrical signals, the set of map locations having a first spatial arrangement, wherein the set of electrical signals comprises a subset of the plurality of electrical signals; and facilitate display, via the display, of a set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the set of electrical signals, the set of electrical signal representations comprising a second spatial arrangement, wherein the second spatial arrangement corresponds to the first spatial arrangement, and wherein the second spatial arrangement is determined by performing a linear scaling operation based on the first spatial arrangement.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of electrical signals comprises an electrogram.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to facilitate display, via the display device, of a selection indicator, the selection indicator comprising a representation of the selected portion of the map.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to: identify, based on the selected portion of the cardiac map, the set of electrical signals; determine the first spatial arrangement; and determine, based on the first spatial arrangement, the second spatial arrangement.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the selected portion of the map comprises a curve, drawn using the input device, on the cardiac map.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the selected portion of the map comprises a selected region of the cardiac map, and wherein the representation of the selected region comprises a grid having a plurality of grid cells arranged in a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein each electrical signal of the set of electrical signals has a map location corresponding to one of the plurality of grid cells.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to facilitate display, via the display device, of a plurality of electrical signal representations, each of the plurality of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the plurality of electrical signals, wherein the selected portion of the map comprises a set of selected electrical signal representations.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to: receive, via the input device, a user input associated with a movement, from a first position to a second position, of the selection indicator; determine, based on the user input, an additional selected portion of the cardiac map, the additional selected portion comprising an additional set of map locations, each of the additional set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of an additional set of electrical signals, the additional set of map locations having a third spatial arrangement, wherein the additional set of electrical signals comprises an additional subset of the plurality of electrical signals; and facilitating display, via the display, of an additional set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the additional set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the additional set of electrical signals, the additional set of electrical signal representations comprising a fourth spatial arrangement, wherein the fourth spatial arrangement corresponds to the third spatial arrangement.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing unit is further configured to: receive, via the input device, a user selection of an additional selected portion of the cardiac map; determine, based on the user input, an additional selected portion of the cardiac map, the additional selected portion comprising an additional set of map locations, each of the additional set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of an additional set of electrical signals, the additional set of map locations having a third spatial arrangement, wherein the additional set of electrical signals comprises an additional subset of the plurality of electrical signals; and facilitating display, via the display, of an additional set of electrical signal representations simultaneously with the display of the set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the additional set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the electrical signal set of electrical signals, the additional set of electrical signal representations comprising a fourth spatial arrangement, wherein the fourth spatial arrangement corresponds to the third spatial arrangement.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the set of electrical signal representations is displayed in a first column and the additional set of electrical signal representations is displayed in a second column, and wherein the second column is displayed adjacent the first column.
12. A method of presenting cardiac information, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of electrical signals sensed within a patient's heart; generating, based on the plurality of electrical signals, the cardiac map; facilitating display, via the display device, of the cardiac map, wherein each of the plurality of electrical signals corresponds to a cardiac map location; receiving, from an input device, a user selection of a selected portion of the cardiac map; identifying a set of map locations corresponding to the selected portion; identifying, for each of the set of map locations, a corresponding electrical signal of a set of electrical signals, the set of map locations having a first spatial arrangement, wherein the set of electrical signals comprises a subset of the plurality of electrical signals; and facilitating display, via the display device, of a set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the set of electrical signals, the set of electrical signal representations comprising a second spatial arrangement, wherein the second spatial arrangement corresponds to the first spatial arrangement, and wherein the second spatial arrangement is determined by performing a linear scaling operation based on the first spatial arrangement.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of electrical signals comprises an electrogram.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising facilitating display, via the display device, of a selection indicator, the selection indicator comprising a representation of the selected portion of the map.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining the first spatial arrangement; and determining, based on the first spatial arrangement, the second spatial arrangement.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the selected portion of the map comprises at least one of (1) a curve, drawn using the input device, on the cardiac map; (2) a selected region of the cardiac map, and wherein the representation of the selected region comprises a grid having a plurality of grid cells arranged in a plurality of columns and a plurality of rows, wherein each electrical signal of the set of electrical signals has a map location corresponding to one of the plurality of grid cells; and (3) a set of selected electrical signal representations, wherein the cardiac map includes a plurality of electrical signal representations, each of the plurality of electrical signal representations corresponding to one of the plurality of electrical signals.
17. A system for facilitating display of cardiac information, the system comprising: a display device configured to present a cardiac map; and a processing unit configured to: receive a plurality of electrical signals sensed within a patient's heart; generate, based on the plurality of electrical signals, the cardiac map; facilitate display, via the display device, of the cardiac map, wherein each of the plurality of electrical signals corresponds to a cardiac map location; receive, from an input device, a user selection of a first selected portion of the cardiac map, the first selected portion comprising a first set of map locations, each of the first set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of a first set of electrical signals, the first set of map locations having a first spatial arrangement, wherein the first set of electrical signals comprises a first subset of the plurality of electrical signals; receive, from the input device, a user selection of a second selected portion of the cardiac map, the second selected portion comprising a second set of map locations, each of the second set of map locations corresponding to an electrical signal of a second set of electrical signals, the second set of map locations having a second spatial arrangement, wherein the second set of electrical signals comprises a second subset of the plurality of electrical signals; and facilitate display, via the display, of (1) a first set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the first set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one electrical signal of the first set of electrical signals, the first set of electrical signal representations comprising a third spatial arrangement, wherein the third spatial arrangement corresponds to the first spatial arrangement, wherein the third spatial arrangement is determined by performing a linear scaling operation based on the first spatial arrangement; and (2) a second set of electrical signal representations, each electrical signal representation of the second set of electrical signal representations corresponding to one electrical signal of the second set of electrical signals, the second set of electrical signal representations comprising a fourth spatial arrangement, wherein the fourth spatial arrangement corresponds to the second spatial arrangement.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the first set of electrical signal representations is displayed in a first column and the second set of electrical signal representations is displayed in a second column, and wherein the second column is displayed adjacent the first column.
</claims>
</document>
