<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/60,G06T3/00,G06T5/00,G09G5/00,H04N13/111
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FYUSION COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RUSU, RADU BOGDAN
HOLZER, STEFAN JOHANNES JOSEF
HABER, GEORGE
MARTIN, KEITH GEORGE
POPA, GABRIEL
GLAVTCHEV, VLADIMIR ROUMENOV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58282721
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic multi-view interactive digital media representation lock screen
</title>

<abstract>
Described are systems and processes for generating multi-view interactive digital media representations (MIDMR) for display on a user device. In one aspect, a mobile device is provided which comprises a display, one or more processors, memory, and one or more programs stored in memory. The one or more programs comprise instructions for locking the mobile device, and providing a lock screen on the display in a lock mode upon receiving user input for accessing the mobile device. The lock screen may display a dynamic MIDMR that dynamically changes without user input, which provides an interactive three-dimensional representation of an object that is responsive to user interaction with the mobile device. The dynamic MIDMR displayed is selected based on predetermined criteria, and may change based on a predetermined algorithm that includes weighted predetermined criteria factors as variables and recalculates the algorithm value to determine changes to the dynamic MIDMR.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device, comprising: a display; one or more processors; memory; and one or more programs stored in the memory, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: locking the mobile device; upon receiving user input for accessing the mobile device, providing a lock screen on the display in a lock mode, the lock screen displaying a dynamic multi-view interactive digital media representation (MIDMR) that dynamically changes without user input, wherein the dynamic MIDMR provides an interactive three-dimensional representation and a 360 degree view of an object that is responsive to user interaction with the mobile device without rendering and storing an actual three-dimensional model using polygon generation, wherein the dynamic MIDMR displays different angles of the object corresponding to different degrees of tilt of the mobile device, and wherein the dynamic MIDMR displayed is selected based on predetermined criteria; upon receiving user identification input, unlocking the mobile device for use in an unlock mode, wherein receiving user identification input includes interacting with the MIDMR according to the different angles of the object, wherein frames of the dynamic MIDMR are interpolated for fewer increments of the angles of the object in the lock mode than in the unlock mode.
2. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the predetermined criteria includes one or more of the following: location, weather, time/date, installed applications, last opened application, phone orientation, user preferences, alerts, calendars/schedules, upcoming events, user activity, and bids.
3. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the dynamic MIDMR changes based on a predetermined algorithm value that includes weighted predetermined criteria factors as variables and continuously or intermittently recalculates the predetermined algorithm value, based on updated variables, in order to determine whether the dynamic MIDMR should change into a different dynamic MIDMR.
4. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the dynamic MIDMR is further enhanced with filters, tags, rendered information, or content overlay.
5. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the dynamic MIDMR responds to spatial and movement sensors in the mobile device.
6. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the mobile device further comprises a gyroscope and IMU sensors.
7. The mobile device of claim 6, wherein the gyroscope and IMU sensors are activated in the lock mode.
8. The mobile device of claim 7, wherein the mobile device detects movement of the mobile device corresponding to translational movement or rotational movement of the mobile device and the dynamic MIDMR rotates in concert with the movement.
9. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the user identification input includes maneuvering the dynamic MIDMR in a predetermined pattern.
10. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the dynamic MIDMR is stored in a data structure held in RAM.
11. A method for displaying a dynamic multi-view interactive digital media representation (MIDMR) on a lock screen of a mobile device, the method comprising: locking the mobile device, the mobile device comprising a display; upon receiving user input for accessing the mobile device, providing a lock screen on the display in a lock mode, the lock screen displaying a dynamic multi-view interactive digital media representation (MIDMR) that dynamically changes without user input, wherein the dynamic MIDMR provides an interactive three-dimensional representation and a 360 degree view of an object that is responsive to user interaction with the mobile device without rendering and storing an actual three-dimensional model using polygon generation, wherein the dynamic MIDMR displays different angles of the object corresponding to different degrees of tilt of the mobile device, and wherein the dynamic MIDMR displayed is selected based on predetermined criteria; upon receiving user identification input, unlocking the mobile device for use in an unlock mode, wherein receiving user identification input includes interacting with the MIDMR according to the different angles of the object, wherein frames of the dynamic MIDMR are interpolated for fewer increments of the angles of the object in the lock mode than in the unlock mode.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the predetermined criteria includes one or more of the following: location, weather, time/date, installed applications, last opened application, phone orientation, user preferences, alerts, calendars/schedules, upcoming events, user activity, and bids.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic MIDMR changes based on a predetermined algorithm value that includes weighted predetermined criteria factors as variables and continuously or intermittently recalculates the predetermined algorithm value, based on updated variables, in order to determine whether the dynamic MIDMR should change into a different dynamic MIDMR.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic MIDMR is further enhanced with filters, tags, rendered information, or content overlay.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the dynamic MIDMR responds to spatial and movement sensors in the mobile device.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the mobile device further comprises a gyroscope and IMU sensors.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the gyroscope and IMU sensors are activated in the lock mode.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the mobile device detects movement of the mobile device corresponding to translational movement or rotational movement of the mobile device and the dynamic MIDMR rotates in concert with the movement.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the user identification input includes maneuvering the dynamic MIDMR in a predetermined pattern.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computer, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: locking the mobile device; upon receiving user input for accessing the mobile device, providing a lock screen on the display in a lock mode, the lock screen displaying a dynamic multi-view interactive digital media representation (MIDMR) that dynamically changes without user input, wherein the dynamic MIDMR provides an interactive three-dimensional representation and a 360 degree view of an object that is responsive to user interaction with the mobile device without rendering and storing an actual three-dimensional model using polygon generation, wherein the dynamic MIDMR displays different angles of the object corresponding to different degrees of tilt of the mobile device, and wherein the dynamic MIDMR displayed is selected based on predetermined criteria; upon receiving user identification input, unlocking the mobile device for use in an unlock mode, wherein receiving user identification input includes interacting with the MIDMR according to the different angles of the object, wherein frames of the dynamic MIDMR are interpolated for fewer increments of the angles of the object in the lock mode than in the unlock mode.
</claims>
</document>
