<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,G06Q20/38,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FLIPSIDE CRYPTO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALTER, DAVID L.
MYERS, JAMES F.
STONE, ERIC C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408356
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for analysis of digital asset development and transaction behaviors
</title>

<abstract>
The fundamental health of a crypto-asset is determined based on factors associated with the development and utility of the crypto-asset. Developer activity data associated with the crypto-asset is received from one or more interfaces associated with one or more development servers associated with the crypto-asset, and a developer activity factor is calculated based on the developer activity data. A connection is established to a blockchain server that maintains a blockchain that tracks transactions associated with the crypto-asset, and transaction data for a plurality of the transactions is received from the blockchain server. A project utility factor is calculated based on a plurality of behavioral use cases derived from the transaction data, where the behavioral use cases are respectively associated with different uses of the crypto-asset. Then, a fundamental health score is determined for the crypto-asset based on the developer activity factor and the project utility factor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining the fundamental health of a crypto-asset, the method comprising: receiving, from one or more interfaces associated with one or more development servers associated with a crypto-asset, developer activity data associated with the crypto-asset; calculating a developer activity factor based on the developer activity data; establishing a connection to a blockchain server that maintains a blockchain that tracks transactions associated with the crypto-asset; receiving, from the blockchain server, transaction data for a plurality of the transactions; calculating a project utility factor based on a plurality of behavioral use cases derived from the transaction data, wherein the behavioral use cases are respectively associated with different uses of the crypto-asset; determining a fundamental health score for the crypto-asset based on the developer activity factor and the project utility factor; and generating a crypto-asset index using as input the fundamental health score for the crypto-asset and one or more fundamental health scores for other crypto-assets.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the developer activity data comprises code commits, code comments, number of code pulls, frequency of code pulls, number of code pushes, frequency of code pushes, number of unique contributors, number of code forks, number of releases, frequency of releases, number of watches on code, number of issue reports, frequency of issue reports, number of posts to electronic message boards associated with the crypto-asset, and/or frequency of posts to electronic message boards associated with the crypto-asset.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the developer activity factor comprises defining a time-based factor to account for a temporal aspect of the developer activity data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the developer activity factor comprises: defining a plurality of observed activity variables based on the developer activity data; performing factor analysis by identifying factors defining a covariance of the observed activity variables; and measuring a proportion of variance from results of the factor analysis.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the behavioral use cases comprise active trading, passive trading, and/or intended use.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises: identifying addresses in the blockchain that have made at least one transfer of a crypto-asset; and classifying activities associated with the addresses into the behavioral use cases.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein calculating the project utility factor further comprises filtering the activities by excluding unintended behaviors associated with the addresses.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises differentiating among behaviors exhibited in the transaction data using probabilistic modeling, heuristics, and/or manual inspection.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises: forming clusters of similar transaction participants based on the transaction data; classifying the clusters into the behavioral use cases; and calculating a time-series of proportions of the behavioral use cases.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the fundamental health score comprises calculating a covariance-weighted average using the developer activity factor and the project utility factor.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a market maturity factor for the crypto-asset based on trading volume, current price, total project value, and/or volatility, and wherein the fundamental health score is further based on the market maturity factor.
12. A system for determining the fundamental health of a crypto-asset, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, program the processor to perform the operations of: receiving, from one or more interfaces associated with one or more development servers associated with a crypto-asset, developer activity data associated with the crypto-asset; calculating a developer activity factor based on the developer activity data; establishing a connection to a blockchain server that maintains a blockchain that tracks transactions associated with the crypto-asset; receiving, from the blockchain server, transaction data for a plurality of the transactions; calculating a project utility factor based on a plurality of behavioral use cases derived from the transaction data, wherein the behavioral use cases are respectively associated with different uses of the crypto-asset; determining a fundamental health score for the crypto-asset based on the developer activity factor and the project utility factor; and generating a crypto-asset index using as input the fundamental health score for the crypto-asset and one or more fundamental health scores for other crypto-assets.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the developer activity data comprises code commits, code comments, number of code pulls, frequency of code pulls, number of code pushes, frequency of code pushes, number of unique contributors, number of code forks, number of releases, frequency of releases, number of watches on code, number of issue reports, frequency of issue reports, number of posts to electronic message boards associated with the crypto-asset, and/or frequency of posts to electronic message boards associated with the crypto-asset.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein calculating the developer activity factor comprises defining a time-based factor to account for a temporal aspect of the developer activity data.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein calculating the developer activity factor comprises: defining a plurality of observed activity variables based on the developer activity data; performing factor analysis by identifying factors defining a covariance of the observed activity variables; and measuring a proportion of variance from results of the factor analysis.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the behavioral use cases comprise active trading, passive trading, and/or intended use.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises: identifying addresses in the blockchain that have made at least one transfer of a crypto-asset; and classifying activities associated with the addresses into the behavioral use cases.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein calculating the project utility factor further comprises filtering the activities by excluding unintended behaviors associated with the addresses.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises differentiating among behaviors exhibited in the transaction data using probabilistic modeling, heuristics, and/or manual inspection.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein calculating the project utility factor comprises: forming clusters of similar transaction participants based on the transaction data; classifying the clusters into the behavioral use cases; and calculating a time-series of proportions of the behavioral use cases.
21. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the fundamental health score comprises calculating a covariance-weighted average using the developer activity factor and the project utility factor.
22. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise calculating a market maturity factor for the crypto-asset based on trading volume, current price, total project value, and/or volatility, and wherein the fundamental health score is further based on the market maturity factor.
</claims>
</document>
