<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06N20/00,G08G1/00,H04M11/04,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIEGGI, CHRISTOPHER J.
BASSETT, ALICIA
BALK, CHAD ALLEN
VIANE, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68292758
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data processing system with machine learning engine to provide roadside assistance functions
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, computer-readable media, and apparatuses for receiving requests for roadside assistance, generating user interfaces and using machine learning to generate roadside assistance instructions are provided. In some examples, a request for roadside assistance may be received. A user and one or more partners may be identified based on the request. In some examples, a profile associated with the user, partner or the like may be identified. A user interface may be generated based on the profile and may include features unique to the profile, partner, or the like. In some arrangements, the interface may include a first portion and a second portion. Selection of an option from the first portion may cause the system to identify data for display in the second portion and cause the data to be displayed in the second portion. Machine learning may be used to determine or identify one or more roadside assistance instructions and a roadside assistance instruction may be generated and executed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing platform, comprising: a processing unit comprising a processor; and a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processing unit, cause the computing platform to: receive a request for roadside assistance; identify, based on the request for roadside assistance, a user associated with the request; identify, based on data from the request for roadside assistance, a partner entity; identify, based on the identified partner entity, a profile of the partner entity; generate an interactive user interface based on the identified profile, the interactive user interface including a first portion and a second portion, the first portion including a plurality of selectable options, that are selectable in any order, for providing additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, the plurality of selectable options being generated based on the profile of the partner entity; receive additional information related to the request for roadside assistance; receive selection of a first option of the plurality of selectable options in the first portion of the interactive user interface; identify, based on at least the first option and the received additional information, data for display in the second portion; cause the identified data for display in the second portion to be displayed in the second portion of the interactive user interface; generate, based on one or more machine learning datasets, a roadside assistance instruction; and execute the roadside assistance instruction.
2. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein executing the roadside assistance instruction further including dispatching a roadside assistance provider.
3. The computing platform of claim 1, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: generate a first request for additional information; transmit the generated first request to a computing device, and wherein receiving additional information related to the request for roadside assistance includes receiving response data in response to the transmitted first request.
4. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein any option of the plurality of selectable options is available for selection.
5. The computing platform of claim 1, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: receive further additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, wherein generating the roadside assistance instruction is further based on the further additional information.
6. The computing platform of claim 1, wherein the generated interactive user interface is unique to the profile.
7. The computing platform of claim 6, wherein the generated interactive user interface includes fields unique to the profile.
8. A method, comprising: at a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface: receiving, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, a request for roadside assistance; identifying, by the at least one processor and based on the request for roadside assistance, a user associated with the request; identifying, by the at least one processor and based on data from the request for roadside assistance, a partner entity; identifying, by the at least one processor and based on the identified partner entity, a profile of the partner entity; generating, by the at least one processor, an interactive user interface based on the identified profile, the interactive user interface including a first portion and a second portion, the first portion including a plurality of selectable options, that are selectable in any order, for providing additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, the plurality of selectable options being generated based on the profile of the partner entity; receiving, by the at least one processor, additional information related to the request for roadside assistance; receiving, by the at least one processor, selection of a first option of the plurality of selectable options in the first portion of the interactive user interface; identifying, by the at least one processor and based on at least the first option and the received additional information, data for display in the second portion; causing, by the at least one processor, the identified data for display in the second portion to be displayed in the second portion of the interactive user interface; generating, by the at least one processor and based on one or more machine learning datasets, a roadside assistance instruction; and executing, by the at least one processor, the roadside assistance instruction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein executing the roadside assistance instruction further including dispatching a roadside assistance provider.
10. The method of claim 8, further including: generating, by the at least one processor, a first request for additional information; transmitting, by the at least one processor and via the communication interface, the generated first request to a computing device, and wherein receiving additional information related to the request for roadside assistance includes receiving response data in response to the transmitted first request.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein any option of the plurality of selectable options is available for selection.
12. The method of claim 8, further including: receiving, by the at least one processor, further additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, wherein generating the roadside assistance instruction is further based on the further additional information.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the generated interactive user interface is unique to the profile.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the generated interactive user interface includes fields unique to the profile.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing platform comprising at least one processor, memory, and a communication interface, cause the computing platform to: receive a request for roadside assistance; identify, based on the request for roadside assistance, a user associated with the request; identify, based on data from the request for roadside assistance, a partner entity; identify, based on the identified partner entity, a profile of the partner entity; generate an interactive user interface based on the identified profile, the interactive user interface including a first portion and a second portion, the first portion including a plurality of selectable options, that are selectable in any order, for providing additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, the plurality of selectable options being generated based on the profile of the partner entity; receive additional information related to the request for roadside assistance; receive selection of a first option of the plurality of selectable options in the first portion of the interactive user interface; identify, based on at least the first option and the received additional information, data for display in the second portion; cause the identified data for display in the second portion to be displayed in the second portion of the interactive user interface; generate, based on one or more machine learning datasets, a roadside assistance instruction; and execute the roadside assistance instruction.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein executing the roadside assistance instruction further including dispatching a roadside assistance provider.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: generate a first request for additional information; transmit the generated first request to a computing device, and wherein receiving additional information related to the request for roadside assistance includes receiving response data in response to the transmitted first request.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein any option of the plurality of selectable options is available for selection.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, further including instructions that, when executed, cause the computing platform to: receive further additional information related to the request for roadside assistance, wherein generating the roadside assistance instruction is further based on the further additional information.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the generated interactive user interface is unique to the profile and wherein the generated interactive user interface includes fields unique to the profile.
</claims>
</document>
