<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/31,G06F17/00,G06F17/30,G06F3/048,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SENGUPTA SHUBHASHIS
MISRA, JANARDAN
PODDER, SANJAY
ACHARYULU, KARTHIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58798418
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Feature extraction for machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
A device may receive a first command, included in a set of commands, to set a configuration parameter associated with performing feature extraction. The device may receive a second command, included in the set of commands, to set a corresponding value for the configuration parameter. The configuration parameter and the corresponding value may correspond to a particular feature metric that is to be extracted. The device may configure, based on the configuration parameter and the corresponding value, feature extraction for a corpus of documents. The device may perform, based on configuring feature extraction for the corpus, feature extraction on the corpus to determine the particular feature metric. The device may generate a feature vector based on performing the feature extraction. The feature vector may include the particular feature metric. The feature vector may include a feature identifier identifying the particular feature metric. The device may provide the feature vector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: one or more processors to: provide a user interface, the user interface including one or more user interface elements identifying a set of commands of a feature extraction language; receive, via the user interface, a first command, included in the set of commands, to set a configuration parameter associated with performing feature extraction, the configuration parameter representing data used to define a manner in which the feature extraction is to be performed for a corpus of documents; receive, via the user interface, a second command, included in the set of commands, to set a corresponding value for the configuration parameter, the configuration parameter and the corresponding value corresponding to a particular feature metric that is to be extracted, the corresponding value specifying a particular type of data to be extracted from the corpus; configure, based on the configuration parameter and the corresponding value, the feature extraction for the corpus; perform, based on configuring the feature extraction for the corpus, the feature extraction on the corpus to determine the particular feature metric, the particular feature metric identifying data extracted from the corpus based on the configuration parameter and the corresponding value; generate a feature vector based on performing the feature extraction, the feature vector including the particular feature metric, the feature vector including a feature identifier identifying the particular feature metric, and the feature identifier including an expression, the expression including: data associated with the first command, data associated with the second command, and a logical operator identifying a relationship between the first command and the second command; and provide the feature vector, as input, to a first machine learning application operating on a first recipient device.
2. The device of claim 1, where the corpus is a first corpus, the feature extraction is a first feature extraction, and the feature vector is a first feature vector; and where one or more processors are further to: perform a second feature extraction on a second corpus of documents based on one or more commands of the set of commands; generate a second feature vector based on performing the second feature extraction; and provide the second feature vector, as input, to a second machine learning application operating on a second recipient device, the first machine learning application being different from the second machine learning application.
3. The device of claim 1, where the configuration parameter relates to at least one of: a linguistic type of feature, a semantic type of feature, or a statistical type of feature.
4. The device of claim 1, where the one or more processors are further to: determine a set of possible corresponding values for the configuration parameter based on receiving the first command, the set of possible corresponding values including the corresponding value; provide, via the user interface, information identifying one or more commands, of the set of commands, associated with setting the set of possible corresponding values, the one or more commands including the second command; and where the one or more processors, when receiving the second command, are to: receive a selection of the second command via the user interface based on providing the information identifying the one or more commands.
5. The device of claim 1, where the one or more processors when generating the feature vector are to: generate a header entry including the feature identifier; and generate a set of rows associated with the header entry, the set of rows including a set of values for the particular feature metric, each value, of the set of values, corresponding to a syntactic unit of a set of syntactic units of the corpus.
6. The device of claim 1, where the one or more processors, when providing the feature vector, are to: provide the feature vector to cause the first machine learning application to perform a machine learning or natural language processing technique on the corpus based on the particular feature metric, the first machine learning application being caused to identify the particular feature metric based on the feature identifier.
7. The device of claim 1, where the one or more processors, when providing the feature vector, are to: provide the feature vector to permit text analytics to be performed on the corpus for at least one of: a medical text analysis context, a legal text analysis context, a software text analysis context, a sentiment mining context, a social media text analysis context, a customer intelligence context, a web page ranking context, or a fraud analytics context.
8. The device of claim 1, where the first machine learning application is a text analytics application.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: provide a user interface, the user interface including one or more user interface elements identifying a set of commands of a feature extraction language; receive, via the user interface, a selection of one or more commands of the feature extraction language, the one or more commands identifying a set of feature metrics, the one or more commands including a first command to set a configuration parameter associated with the set of feature metrics, the configuration parameter representing data used to define a manner in which feature extraction is to be performed for a document, and the one or more commands including a second command to set a corresponding value for the configuration parameter, the corresponding value specifying a particular type of data to be extracted from the document; configure, based on the configuration parameter and the corresponding value, the feature extraction; perform, based on configuring the feature extraction, the feature extraction on the document to determine a set of values for the set of feature metrics, at least one feature metric, included in the set of feature metrics, identifying a corresponding set of values extracted from the document based on the configuration parameter and the corresponding value; generate a feature vector based on performing the feature extraction; and provide the feature vector to cause a machine learning process to be performed on the document based on the set of values for the set of feature metrics, the feature vector including the set of values for the set of feature metrics, and the feature vector including information identifying the set of feature metrics, the information identifying the set of feature metrics including an expression, the expression including: data associated with the first command, data associated with the second command, and a logical operator identifying a relationship between the first command and the second command.
10. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the set of feature metrics includes a particular feature metric associated with at least one of: a syntactic feature, an orthographic feature, a context based feature, a dependency feature, a lexical feature, a latent feature, an ontological feature, a distribution feature, a correlation feature, an information specificity feature, a latent semantic association feature, a central themes and topics feature, or a clustering feature.
11. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the one or more user interface elements include at least one of: a drop-down list, a drop-down menu, or a pop-up window.
12. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, are further to: parse the one or more commands to determine a set of expressions for the feature extraction; and where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to perform the feature extraction, cause the one or more processors to: determine the set of values for the set of feature metrics, the set of values being results of evaluating the set of expressions for one or more syntactic units of the document.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify another document, perform another feature extraction on the other document based on another one or more commands; generate another feature vector based on performing the other feature extraction; and provide the other feature vector to cause the machine learning process to be performed on the other document.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, where the machine learning process is a text analytics process.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the configuration parameter relates to at least one of: a linguistic type of feature, a semantic type of feature, or a statistical type of feature.
16. A method, comprising: providing, by a device, a user interface, the user interface including one or more user interface elements identifying a set of commands of a feature extraction language; receiving, by the device and via the user interface, a first command, included in the set of commands, associated with a set of feature extraction parameters; receiving, by the device and via the user interface, a second command, included in the set of commands, associated with one or more corresponding values for the set of feature extraction parameters; determining, by the device and based on the first command and the second command, a first one or more feature extraction parameters, of the set of feature extraction parameters, and a first one or more corresponding values, of the one or more corresponding values, for the first one or more feature extraction parameters, the first one or more feature extraction parameters representing data used to define a manner in which a first feature extraction is to be performed, and the first one or more corresponding values specifying, for the first one or more feature extraction parameters, particular types of data to be extracted during the first feature extraction; configuring, by the device and based on the first one or more feature extraction parameters and the first one or more corresponding values, the first feature extraction for a first document; performing, by the device and based on configuring the first feature extraction, the first feature extraction on the first document to generate a first one or more feature metrics; generating, by the device, a first feature vector based on performing the first feature extraction, the first feature vector including information identifying the first one or more feature metrics, the information identifying the first one or more feature metrics including an expression, the expression including: data associated with the first command, data associated with the second command, and a logical operator identifying a relationship between the first command and the second command; and providing, by the device and to a first recipient device, the first feature vector to cause a first machine learning process to be performed on the first document based on the first one or more feature metrics included in the first feature vector.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining one or more expressions based on the first one or more feature extraction parameters and the first one or more corresponding values; and where performing the first feature extraction comprises: evaluating the one or more expressions to determine the first one or more feature metrics.
18. The method of claim 17, where providing the first feature vector comprises: providing information identifying the one or more expressions.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: providing the first feature vector to a second recipient device to cause a second machine learning process to be performed on a second document based on the first one or more feature metrics included in the first feature vector, the second recipient device being different from the first recipient device.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the set of feature extraction parameters relate to at least one of: a linguistic type of feature, a semantic type of feature, or a statistical type of feature.
</claims>
</document>
