<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G01K19/00,G01K9/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G08B29/14,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BART, GARY FRANKLIN
CONSTANTINE, DEAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74067019
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Drone for recognizing and testing monitoring system sensors
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a storage device, for using a drone to test monitoring system sensors. In one aspect, the drone perform operations that include navigating from a first location of a property towards a second location of the property, detecting a sensor that is installed at the property, interrupting, by the drone, navigation through the property from the first location of the property towards the second location of the property to initiate a test of the detected sensor and (ii) determining a sensor test type for the detected sensor, administering a sensor test to the detected sensor, wherein the sensor test is based on the determined sensor test type, evaluating results of the administered test, storing data describing the results of the administered test, and continuing navigation through the property towards the second location of the property or towards another location of the property.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A drone comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices, wherein the storage devices include a plurality of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the drone to perform operations, the operations comprising: capturing, by the drone, an image while navigating along a path towards a location of a property; providing, by the drone, the image as input to a machine learning model trained to identify a likelihood that a given image includes one or more sensors associated with a monitoring system of the property; obtaining, by the drone and from the machine learning model, data indicating that the image likely includes a particular sensor; based on obtaining the data indicating that the image likely includes a particular sensor: interrupting, by the drone, navigation through the property along the path, and performing, by the drone, a test on the particular sensor; determining, by the drone, whether the particular sensor is properly functioning based on results of the test that was performed on the particular sensor; providing, by the drone and for output, data indicating whether the particular sensor is properly functioning; and after providing the data indicating whether the particular sensor is properly functioning for output, continuing, by the drone, navigation through the property along the path.
2. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a camera; and the image captured while navigating along the path is captured by the camera.
3. The drone of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: providing, by the drone, the image as input to a second machine learning model trained to predict a sensor test type for one or more sensors determined to be included in a given image; obtaining, by the drone and from the second machine learning model, data indicating a predicted sensor test type for the image; and performing the test on the particular sensor by performing a test of the predicted sensor test type on the particular sensor.
4. The drone of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: using, by the drone, the camera to capture a second image while the drone is navigating along the path; determining, by the drone, that the second image does not include a sensor; and based on determining that the second image does not include a sensor, continuing navigation along the path without providing the second image to a second machine learning model trained to predict a sensor test type for one or more sensors determined to be included in a given image.
5. The drone of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise: capturing, by the drone, a second image while navigating along the path; providing, by the drone, the second image as an input to the machine learning model; and obtaining, by the drone and from the first machine learning model, data indicating that the the second image does not include a sensor.
6. The drone of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting, by the drone and prior to performing the test, a message to a monitoring system that instructs the monitoring system to disregard sensor data generated by the sensor for a predetermined amount of time.
7. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a sensor testing unit; the particular sensor is a smoke detector; and performing the test on the particular sensor comprises: using, by the drone, the sensor testing unit to emit an airborne material that is configured to trigger the smoke detector to generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of smoke.
8. The drone of claim 7, wherein: the drone comprises a communication unit; determining whether the particular sensor is properly functioning comprises: using, by the drone, the communication unit to detect that the smoke detector did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of smoke within a predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the smoke detector, and based on determining that the smoke detector did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of smoke within the predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the smoke detector, determining, by the drone, that the smoke detector is not functioning properly.
9. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a sensor testing unit; the particular sensor is a carbon monoxide detector; performing the test to the particular sensor comprises: using, by the drone, the sensor testing unit to emit carbon monoxide gas that is configured to trigger the carbon monoxide sensor to generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of carbon monoxide.
10. The drone of claim 9, wherein: the drone comprises a communication unit; and determining whether the particular sensor is properly functioning comprises: using, by the drone, the communication unit to detect that the carbon monoxide sensor did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of carbon monoxide within a predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the carbon monoxide sensor, and based on determining that the carbon monoxide detector did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of carbon monoxide within the predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the carbon monoxide sensor, determining, by the drone, that the carbon monoxide detector is not functioning properly.
11. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a sensor testing unit; the particular sensor is a glass break sensor; and performing, the test to the particular sensor comprises: using, by the drone, a sensor testing unit to output an audio signal configured to trigger the glass break sensor to generate sensor data that is indicative of an occurrence of breaking glass.
12. The drone of claim 11, wherein: the drone comprises a communication unit; determining whether the particular sensor is properly functioning comprises: using, by the drone, the communication unit to detect that the glass break sensor did not generate sensor data that is indicative of an occurrence of breaking glass within a predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the glass break sensor, and based on determining that the glass break sensor did not generate sensor data that is indicative of an occurrence of breaking glass within the predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the glass break sensor, determining, by the drone, that the glass break sensor is not functioning properly.
13. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a sensor testing unit; the particular sensor is a thermometer; and performing the test to the particular sensor comprises: using, by the drone, the sensor testing unit to generate air flow towards the thermometer to trigger the thermometer to generate sensor data that is indicative of a change in temperature from a point in time prior to the generation of the air flow by the sensor testing unit, wherein the temperature of the air flow is different than the temperature of the room where the drone and thermometer are located.
14. The drone of claim 13, wherein: the drone comprises a communication unit; and determining whether the particular sensor is properly functioning comprises: using, by the drone, the communication unit to detect that the thermometer did not generate sensor data that is indicative of a change in temperature responsive to the generated air flow within a predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the thermometer, and based on determining that the thermometer did not generate sensor data that is indicative of a change in temperature responsive to the generated air flow within the predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the thermometer, determining, by the drone, that the thermometer is not functioning properly.
15. The drone of claim 1, wherein: the drone comprises a sensor test unit; the particular sensor is a motion sensor; and performing the test to the particular sensor comprises: navigating, by the drone, through a portion of a property being monitored by the motion sensor to trigger the motion sensor to generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of a moving object.
16. The drone of claim 15, wherein: the drone comprises a communication unit, determining whether the particular sensor is properly functioning comprises: using, by the drone, the communication unit to detect that the motion sensor did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of a moving object within a predetermined amount of time of performing the test on the thermometer, and based on determining that the motion sensor did not generate sensor data that is indicative of the presence of a moving object within the predetermined time of performing the test on the motion sensor, determining, by the drone, that the motion sensor is not functioning properly.
17. A method comprising: capturing, by the drone, an image while navigating along a path towards a location of a property; providing, by the drone, the image as input to a machine learning model trained to identify a likelihood that a given image includes one or more sensors associated with a monitoring system of the property; obtaining, by the drone and from the machine learning model, data indicating that the image likely includes a particular sensor; based on obtaining the data indicating that the image likely includes a particular sensor; interrupting, by the drone, navigation through the property along the path, and performing, by the drone, a test on the particular sensor; determining, by the drone, whether the particular sensor is properly functioning based on results of the test that was performed on the particular sensor; providing, by the drone and for output, data indicating whether the particular sensor is properly functioning; and after providing the data indicating whether the particular sensor is properly functioning for output, continuing, by the drone, navigation through the property along the path.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the drone comprises a camera; and the image captured while navigating along the path is captured by the camera.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: providing, by the drone, the image as input to a second machine learning model trained to predict a sensor test type for one or more sensors determined to be included in a given image; obtaining, by the drone and from the second machine learning model, data indicating a predicted sensor test type for the image; and performing the test on the particular sensor by performing a test of the predicted sensor test type on the particular sensor.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: using, by the drone, the camera to capture a second image while the drone is navigating along the path; determining, by the drone, that the second image does not include a sensor; and based on determining that the second image does not include a sensor, continuing navigation along the path without providing the second image to a second machine learning model trained to predict a sensor test type for one or more sensors determined to be included in a given image.
</claims>
</document>
