<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60L53/60,G05B15/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANCIUM
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLINE, JR., RAYMOND E.
MCNAMARA, MICHAEL T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70223764
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Behind-the-meter branch loads for electrical vehicle charging
</title>

<abstract>
Examples relate to flexible datacenters or other power loads tolerant of intermittent operation and configured to use power received behind-the-meter. A system may include a transportation hub electrically coupled to a BTM power source via a branch line. The transportation hub may receive behind-the-meter ("BTM") power from the BTM power source. The system may also include a datacenter control system configured to modulate power delivery to the transportation hub based on a set of monitored conditions. The set of monitored conditions may include BTM power availability at the transportation hub. In some examples, the datacenter control system is a remote master control system positioned remotely from the transportation hub.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a first transportation hub and a second transportation hub, wherein each transportation hub is electrically coupled to a BTM power source via a branch line such that the transportation hub receives behind-the-meter ("BTM") power from the BTM power source; and a datacenter control system configured to modulate power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on a set of monitored conditions, wherein the set of monitored conditions includes BTM power availability at each transportation hub and a comparison of available energy stored at the first transportation hub and at the second transportation hub.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the BTM power source comprises a generation station configured to generate utility-scale electrical power for supply to an electrical grid.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station at a location behind a Point of Interconnection between the generation station and an electrical grid.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub is electrical power produced by a generation station and transmitted to the transportation hub behind the generation station's Point of Interconnection with an electrical grid.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station that is subject to metering by one or more utility-scale generation-side meter that measure power supplied from the generation station to an electrical grid, and wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub has not passed through the one or more utility-scale generation-side meters.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the power received by each transportation hub is received from a generation station that is subject to metering by one or more utility-scale generation-side meters, and wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub is not metered by the one or more utility-scale generation-side meters.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station that supplies utility-scale power to a grid, wherein power received from the grid is subject to Transmission and/or Distribution charges, and wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub from the generation station is not subject to Transmission and/or Distribution charges.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein each transportation hub comprises: an electrical vehicle charging station; and an energy storage system.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the energy storage system comprises: one or more batteries, wherein the one or more batteries are configured to obtain and store power received from the BTM power source.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the set of monitored conditions comprises: a quantity of energy stored in the energy storage system.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the set of monitored conditions comprises: a quantity of vehicles located within a threshold distance from the electrical vehicle charging station.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of monitored conditions further comprises: a first price associated with supplying BTM power to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub versus a second price associated with supplying power to an electrical grid.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the datacenter control system is a remote master control system positioned remotely from the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub, and wherein the remote master control system communicates with a communication interface of each transportation hub.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein each transportation hub further comprises: a power interface configured to electrically engage or disengage the transportation hub from the BTM power source, wherein the power interface electrically engages or disengages the transportation hub from the BTM power source based on instructions from the remote master control system.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein a length of the branch line positions at least the first transportation hub or the second transportation hub within a threshold distance of the BTM power source.
16. A method comprising: monitoring, by a datacenter control system, a set of conditions, wherein the set of conditions includes: (i) behind-the-meter ("BTM") power availability at a first transportation hub and a second transportation hub, and (ii) a comparison of available energy stored at the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub, wherein each transportation hub is electrically coupled to a BTM power source via a branchline and configured to receive BTM power from the BTM power source; and modulating, by the datacenter control system, power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on the set of monitored conditions.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the BTM power source comprises a generation station configured to generate utility-scale electrical power for supply to an electrical grid.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station at a location behind a Point of Interconnection between the generation station and an electrical grid.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub is electrical power produced by a generation station and transmitted to the transportation hub behind the generation station's Point of Interconnection with an electrical grid.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station that is subject to metering by one or more utility-scale generation-side meter that measure power supplied from the generation station to an electrical grid, wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub has not passed through the one or more utility-scale generation-side meters.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein power received by each transportation hub is received from a generation station that is subject to metering by one or more utility-scale generation-side meters, and wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub is not metered by the one or more utility-scale generation-side meters.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein each transportation hub is electrically connected to a generation station that supplies utility-scale power to a grid, wherein power received from the grid is subject to Transmission and/or Distribution charges, and wherein the BTM power received by each transportation hub from the generation station is not subject to Transmission and/or Distribution charges.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein each transportation hub comprises: an electrical vehicle charging station; a power interface configured to electrically engage or disengage the transportation hub from the BTM power source; and an energy storage having one or more batteries; and wherein monitoring the set of conditions comprises: monitoring a quantity of energy stored in the energy storage.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein monitoring the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage comprises: determining that the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage of a particular transportation hub is below a threshold quantity; determining that BTM power is available for delivery to the particular transportation hub; and wherein modulating, by the datacenter control system, power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on the set of monitored conditions comprises: causing the power interface to electrically engage at least the particular transportation hub to the BTM power source to enable power delivery to the energy storage of the particular transportation based on determining that the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage is below the threshold quantity for the particular transportation hub and determining that BTM power is available for delivery to the particular transportation hub.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein monitoring the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage comprises: determining that the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage of a particular transportation hub is above a threshold quantity; and wherein modulating, by the datacenter control system, power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on the set of monitored conditions comprises: causing the power interface to electrically disengage the particular transportation hub from the BTM power source to disable power delivery to the energy storage of the particular transportation hub based on determining that the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage of a particular transportation hub is above the threshold quantity.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein monitoring the quantity of energy stored in the energy storage comprises: determining that BTM power is not available for delivery to a particular transportation hub from the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub; and wherein modulating, by the datacenter control system, power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on the set of monitored conditions comprises: causing the power interface to electrically disengage the particular transportation hub from the BTM power source to disable power delivery to the energy storage based on determining that the BTM power is not available for delivery to the particular transportation hub.
27. A non-transitory computer-readable medium configured to store instructions, that when executed by a computing system, causes the computing system to perform functions comprising: monitoring a set of conditions, wherein the set of conditions includes: (i) behind-the-meter ("BTM") power availability at a first transportation hub and a second transportation hub, and (ii) a comparison of available energy stored at the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub, wherein each transportation hub is electrically coupled to a BTM power source via a branchline and configured to receive BTM power from the BTM power source; and modulating power delivery to the first transportation hub and the second transportation hub based on the set of monitored conditions.
</claims>
</document>
