<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04L12/24,H04W84/00,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SMART BARREL
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOU FADEL, ALBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67541200
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Portable outdoor construction site data center
</title>

<abstract>
A portable construction site data center for off-site monitoring and supervision of construction sites and for on-site construction worker interface. The portable construction site data center has a housing that is resistant to outdoor elements, with a mounting platform for supporting the housing on any common construction site fixture such as a safety barrel or drum. The housing has dimensions and a weight that enable portability for hand carry. The housing has a keyboard, a display, a camera, interactive color LEDs, and an RFID transponder for worker interface, and a CPU with memory to process the worker interface data. A battery and solar cell power the system. An antenna allows the system to access to Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular network signals thus enabling the system to access, via the internet, remote and local digital devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A portable construction site data center that mounts to a construction site fixture, the data center comprising: a portable housing having an exterior that is resistant to outdoor elements, the portable housing having a top and a bottom, wherein the housing includes a mounting platform for supporting the housing on the construction site fixture; the housing having dimensions and a weight including contents enabling portability for hand carry; a means for human interface and conversion to digital data, the means including a keyboard, a display, and a camera, disposed about the housing exterior; a CPU with electronic memory contained within the housing, wired to the means for human interface and processing the digital data; a GPS tracking module wired to the CPU; a battery contained within the housing and powering the CPU, the means for human interface, and the GPS module; a solar cell disposed at the top of the housing and wired to the battery, wherein the solar cell is disposed on a panel that is pivoted to the housing top, and the panel has a cantilevered section overhanging the housing exterior; and at least one antenna wired to the CPU, wherein the antenna includes access to at least one of Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular network signals.
2. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the housing platform includes an elongated notch, and the construction site fixture includes a safety barrel with a top having an elongated, raised rib, and the housing rests on the barrel with the notch receiving the rib.
3. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the construction site fixture includes a wall and the housing is mounted to the wall.
4. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the housing includes a barrel shape and the solar cell is embedded into at least a portion of the top of the housing.
5. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the means for human interface further includes an RFID transponder.
6. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the digital data is transmitted via the internet to a remote, web-enabled device.
7. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the housing includes an inverted T shape with a central tower and the housing platform having first and second opposed platforms forming a notch therebetween, and wherein the first platform includes the keypad and the display, and the tower includes the camera, and the top of the tower includes a panel embedded with the solar cell overhanging the first platform.
8. A portable construction site data center of claim 1, wherein the electronic memory includes at least one of an SD card, flash drive, optical drive, thumb drive, USB drive, and a cloud server.
9. A portable construction site data center that is mountable on a construction site safety barrel, the data center comprising: a portable housing having an exterior that is resistant to outdoor elements, the portable housing having a tower shape, with a top and a bottom, wherein the housing bottom includes a mounting platform supporting the housing on the construction site safety barrel; the housing having dimensions and a weight including contents enabling portability for hand carry; a means for human interface and conversion to digital data, the means including a keyboard, a display, a camera, and multi-color LED lighting, disposed about the housing exterior and mechanically sealed to resist environmental element entry into the housing; a CPU with electronic memory contained within the housing, wired to the means for human interface and processing the digital data; a GPS tracking module wired to the CPU; a battery powering the CPU, means for human interface, and GPS module contained within the mounting platform of the housing; a solar cell embedded in a movable panel that is disposed at the top of the housing and wired to the battery, wherein the movable panel includes a deployed position and a stored position; and at least one antenna wired to the CPU, having access to at least one of Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular network signals.
10. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the solar cell panel is pivoted to the housing top, and the panel has a cantilevered section overhanging the housing exterior in the deployed position.
11. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the camera produces an image transmitted to the CPU that includes facial recognition software.
12. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the means for human interface further includes an RFID transponder.
13. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the housing platform includes a bottom with an elongated notch, and the construction site safety barrel includes a top with an elongated, raised rib, and wherein the housing engages the barrel with the elongated notch receiving the elongated raised rib therein.
14. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the construction site includes a plurality of data centers.
15. The portable construction site data center of claim 9, wherein the housing includes an alternate power supply providing electrical power to at least one of the battery, the CPU, the means for human interface, and the GPS module.
16. A portable, outdoor data center that mounts to an outdoor fixture for user interface and off-site access, the data center comprising: a portable housing having an exterior that is resistant to outdoor elements, the portable housing having a top and a bottom, wherein the housing at the bottom includes a mounting platform for supporting the housing on the outdoor fixture; the housing having dimensions and a weight including contents enabling portability for hand carry; a means for user interface and conversion to digital data, the means including a keyboard, a display, a camera, and LED lighting, disposed about the housing exterior; a CPU with electronic memory contained within the housing, controlling the means for user interface and processing the digital data; at least one antenna wired to the CPU, wherein the antenna includes access to at least one of Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, and cellular network signals in communication with the internet; wherein the user via a mobile device accesses the digital data via the antenna and the internet; a GPS tracking module wired to the CPU; a power supply including at least one of a battery and an alternate electrical input disposed within the housing and powering the CPU, the means for user interface, and the GPS module; and a movable solar panel wired to the power supply and disposed at the top of the housing, and when moved a deployed position, the solar panel at least partially overlies the display and keyboard.
17. The portable construction site data center of claim 16, wherein the alternate electrical input includes a car plug charger.
18. The portable construction site data center of claim 17, wherein the housing includes an inverted T shape with a tower extending above the platform at the bottom.
19. The portable construction site data center of claim 17, wherein the camera provides facial recognition electronic data.
</claims>
</document>
