<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06K9/00,G06T11/00,G06T11/60,G06T15/20,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
EUSEMANN, CHRISTIAN D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65273907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System to detect features using multiple reconstructions
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described to generate, using a first image generation technique, a first image based on the first image data, display the first image to an operator, receive, from the operator, one or more indications of features in the first image of the patient volume, generate, using a second image generation technique, a second image based on the first image data, perform automated feature extraction on the second image to automatically extract information associated with features of the patient volume, and output a feature report of the patient volume based on the one or more indications of features and the information associated with features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: an interface configured to: receive first image data of a patient volume; a processor configured to execute processor-executable program code that causes the processor to: generate, using a first image generation technique, a first image based on the first image data; receive, at an input device, one or more indications of features in the first image of the patient volume identified by an operator of the input device; generate, using a second image generation technique, a second image based on the first image data; perform automated feature extraction on the second image to automatically extract information associated with features of the patient volume; and generate a feature report of the patient volume based on the one or more indications of features and the information associated with features; a display configured to display the first image to the operator; and an input device configured to receive the one or more indications of features from the operator.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first image generation technique is a first image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for viewing based on the first image data; and wherein the second image generation technique is a second image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for automated feature extraction.
3. The system according to claim 1, the processor further configured to execute processor-executable program code that causes the processor to: generate, using a third image generation technique, a third image based on the first image data; and perform automated feature extraction on the third image to automatically extract second information associated with features of the patient volume, wherein the feature report of the patient volume is generated based on the one or more indications of features, the information associated with features, and the second information associated with features of the patient volume, wherein the automated feature extraction performed on the third image is different from the automated feature extraction performed on the second image.
4. The system according to claim 1, the processor further configured to execute processor-executable program code that causes the processor to automatically generate a diagnosis based on the feature report.
5. The system according to claim 4, wherein automatic generation of the diagnosis comprises input of the feature report to a trained network and generation of the diagnosis by the trained artificial neural network based on the input feature report.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein performance of automated feature extraction on the second image comprises input of the second image to a trained network and generation of the information associated with the features of the patient volume by the trained network based on the input second image.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the first image data is magnetic resonance imaging data, positron emission tomography data, or single-photon emission computed tomography data.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein generation of the first image comprises input of the first image data to a trained network.
9. A method comprising: acquiring first image data of a patient volume; generating, using a first image generation technique, a first image based on the first image data; displaying the first image to the operator; receiving, at an input device, one or more indications of features in the first image of the patient volume identified by the operator; generating, using a second image generation technique, a second image based on the first image data; performing automated feature extraction on the second image to automatically extract information associated with features of the patient volume; and outputting a feature report of the patient volume based on the one or more indications of features and the information associated with features.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the first image generation technique is a first image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for viewing based on the first image data; and wherein the second image generation technique is a second image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for automated feature extraction.
11. The method according to claim 9, further comprising: generating, using a third image generation technique, a third image based on the first image data; and performing automated feature extraction on the third image to automatically extract second information associated with features of the patient volume, wherein the feature report of the patient volume is generated based on the one or more indications of features, the information associated with features, and the second information associated with features of the patient volume, wherein the automated feature extraction performed on the third image is different from the automated feature extraction performed on the second image.
12. The method according to claim 9, further comprising: automatically generating a diagnosis based on the feature report.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein automatically generating the diagnosis comprises input of the feature report to a trained network and generation of the diagnosis by the trained network based on the input feature report.
14. The method according to claim 9, wherein performing automated feature extraction on the second image comprises input of the second image to a trained network and generation of the information associated with the features of the patient volume by the trained artificial neural network based on the input second image.
15. The method according to claim 9, wherein the first image data is magnetic resonance imaging data, positron emission tomography data, or single-photon emission computed tomography data.
16. The method according to claim 9, wherein generation of the first image comprises input of the first image data to a trained network.
17. A system comprising: an imaging system to acquire first image data of a patient volume; a control unit to: generate, using a first image generation technique, a first image based on the first image data; display the first image to an operator; receive, from the operator, one or more indications of features in the first image of the patient volume; generate, using a second image generation technique, a second image based on the first image data; perform automated feature extraction on the second image to automatically extract information associated with features of the patient volume; and output a feature report of the patient volume based on the one or more indications of features and the information associated with features.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the first image generation technique is a first image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for viewing based on the first image data; and wherein the second image generation technique is a second image reconstruction technique optimized to generate a three-dimensional image for automated feature extraction.
19. The system according to claim 17, the control unit further to: automatically generate a diagnosis based on the feature report by input of the feature report to a trained artificial neural network and generation of the diagnosis by the trained artificial neural network based on the input feature report.
20. The system according to claim 17, wherein performance of automated feature extraction on the second image comprises input of the second image to a trained artificial neural network and generation of the information associated with the features of the patient volume by the trained artificial neural network based on the input second image.
</claims>
</document>
