<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAMES MICHAEL R.
KAMATA, NOBUHIDE
SAKAI, KATSUHIRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64693409
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Extending object detection and identification capability for an object sensor device
</title>

<abstract>
A device and method for extending an object identification range in a vehicle environment are disclosed. In this regard, the embodiments may operate to solve to a remaining one of a set of pre-defined shape models to an object by successive iterations of point cloud data and associated closing distance to the object. Successive iterations of point cloud data may include receiving, via an object sensor device, the point cloud data, and detecting at least a portion of an object from the point cloud data, which portion is compared with each of a set of pre-defined shape models. The set is updated to include ones comparing favorably with the point cloud data. When the successive iterations solve to a singular remaining one of the set, an iterative match to the object may be based on the singular remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models to identify the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for extending an object identification range in a vehicle environment, the method comprising: solving to a remaining one of a set of pre-defined shape models for an object by successive iterations of point cloud data as a distance from a vehicle to the object along a travel lane decreases due to a velocity of the vehicle exceeding a velocity of the object by: receiving, via an object sensor device, the point cloud data; detecting at least a portion of the object from the point cloud data; comparing each of a set of pre-defined shape models with the at least the portion of the object; and updating the set of pre-defined shape models to include ones comparing favorably with the point cloud data; and when the successive iterations solve to a singular remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models, identifying an iterative match to the object based on the singular remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: tracking the object based on the singular remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device, the range gate distance characteristic producing a point cloud density relatable to the at least the portion of the object.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the object sensor device comprises at least one of: a LIDAR object sensor device; a radar object sensor device; and a milliwave object sensor device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of pre-defined shape models comprises: a vehicular model profile relatable to each of a plurality of point cloud data samples of a pre-defined three-dimensional vehicle based on a corresponding plurality of closing distances relative to a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the object sensor device has a known origin location with respect to the point cloud data of the object.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the set of pre-defined shape models comprises at least one of: a passenger vehicle model; a sport utility vehicle model; a sport vehicle model; and a cargo vehicle model.
9. A method for object identification in a vehicle environment, the method comprising: receiving, via an object sensor device, first point cloud data relating to at least a spatial portion of the vehicle environment, the first point cloud data being relatable to at least a portion of a vehicular object and a set of pre-defined shape models associated with the at least a spatial portion of the environment; comparing each of the set of pre-defined shape models with the first point cloud data; forming a first subset of pre-defined shape models based on remaining ones of the set of pre-defined shape models comparing favorably with the first point cloud; and determining most-likely match of the set of pre-defined shape models by iteratively, as a distance between a vehicle and the vehicular object along a travel lane decreases due to a velocity of the vehicle exceeding a velocity of the vehicular object: receiving subsequent point cloud data relating to at least a further portion of the vehicular object; comparing each of a remaining ones of the first subset of pre-defined shape models with the subsequent point cloud data; and updating the remaining ones of the first subset of pre-defined shape models; and when the first subset of pre-defined shape models corresponds to a remaining one of the first subset of pre-defined shape models, identifying a most-likely match of the vehicular object with the remaining one of the first subset of pre-defined shape models.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device, the range gate distance characteristic producing a point cloud density relatable to the at least the portion of the vehicular object.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the object sensor device comprises at least one of: a LIDAR object sensor device; a radar object sensor device; and a milliwave object sensor device.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the first point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the set of pre-defined shape models comprises: a vehicular model profile relatable to each of a plurality of point cloud data samples of a known three-dimensional vehicle based on a corresponding plurality of sample distances up to a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the object sensor device has a known origin location with respect to the each of the plurality of point cloud data samples of the known three-dimensional vehicle.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the set of pre-defined shape models comprise at least one of: a passenger vehicle model; a sport utility vehicle model; a sport vehicle model; and a cargo vehicle model.
16. A vehicle control unit for vehicular object identification in a vehicle environment, the vehicle control unit comprising: a processor; memory communicably coupled to the processor and to an object sensor device, and the memory storing: an object detection module including instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive, via an object sensor device, point cloud data; detect at least a portion of a vehicular object from the point cloud data; and produce detected vehicular object data from the at least the portion of the vehicular object from the point cloud data; and an object decision module including instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: compare each of a set of pre-defined shape models with the detected vehicular object data; and update the set of pre-defined shape models to ones comparing favorably with the detected vehicular object data; and wherein, when successive iterations of the object detection module and the object decision module on subsequent point cloud data, as a distance from a vehicle to the vehicular object along a travel lane decreases due to a velocity of the vehicle exceeding a velocity of the vehicular object, solve to a remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models, the object decision module produces vehicular object classification data based on the remaining one of the set of pre-defined shape models.
17. The vehicle control unit of claim 16, wherein the point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device, the range gate distance characteristic producing a point cloud density relatable to the at least the portion of the object.
18. The vehicle control unit of claim 16, wherein the point cloud data is generated at a range gate distance characteristic of the object sensor device.
19. The vehicle control unit of claim 18, wherein the object sensor device has a predetermined origin location with respect to the each of the plurality of point cloud data samples of each of the set of pre-defined shape models.
20. The vehicle control unit of claim 16, wherein the set of pre-defined shape models comprises at least one of: a passenger vehicle model; a sport utility vehicle model; a sport vehicle model; and a cargo vehicle model.
</claims>
</document>
