<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VARMOUR NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
TRAN, NAMSON
EADES, TIMOTHY
MAGLIOZZI, RANDY
TSAI, EVA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60807792
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for continually scoring and segmenting open opportunities using client data and product predictors
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for machine learning and adaptive optimization are provided herein. A method includes continually receiving input that is indicative of client events, including client behaviors and respective outcomes of software trials of a product maintained in a database, continually segmenting open opportunities using the client behaviors and respective outcomes, continually scoring and prioritizing the open opportunities using the client behaviors and respective outcomes for targeting and re-targeting, continually adjusting targeted proposals to open opportunities and sourcing in prospects based on a targeting scheme, continually presenting targeted offers to create expansion opportunities and updating a product roadmap of the product using the open opportunities, the product roadmap including technical specifications for the product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine learning and adaptive optimization method, the method comprising: continually receiving client data for a plurality of closed opportunities from a plurality of clients, the client data comprising client behaviors and respective outcomes of software trials of a product maintained in a database, each client of the plurality of clients having the product installed on the each client, the product updating a product roadmap of the product, the product roadmap comprising a technical specification for the product and the product roadmap being automatically adjustable to include a new feature; determining, based on the client data, predictors comprising one or more attributes that correlate to opportunities of the plurality of closed opportunities that resulted in a purchase of the product; continually segmenting open opportunities using the client data and the predictors for the product; continually scoring the open opportunities using the client data and the predictors for the product; automatically updating a technical specification of the product using the segmented open opportunities and the scored open opportunities; updating the predictors based on client data received for opportunities of the open opportunities that resulted in a purchase of the product; and applying a feedback loop that utilizes, for the continually segmenting and continually scoring the open opportunities, client behaviors of the clients receiving a targeted proposal if the client behaviors result in closed opportunities, the feedback loop placing the client behaviors into the database and updating the predictors based on client data received from the clients resulting in the closed opportunities, the feedback loop being a closed loop feedback process for selectively adjusting value propositions, targeted proposals, messaging, prospecting, and the product roadmap based on continual rescoring, with a goal of quickly converting high scoring prospects and adjusting targeting of prospects by identification of sticking points, the sticking points being low scoring aspects or components of an opportunity score.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calibrating a targeting scheme based on the segmenting and the scoring; selectively adjusting the targeted proposal for each of the open opportunities based on the targeting scheme; selectively sourcing individuals based on the segmenting and the scoring; and selectively presenting the targeted proposal for each individual to create expansion opportunities based on the targeting scheme.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising prioritizing clients associated with the open opportunities based on the continual scoring.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein highest scoring open opportunities comprise client behaviors that are indicative of, or match, the client behaviors of successful closed opportunities.
5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising providing the product for download trial to clients.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the client data comprises explicit data and implicit data.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the explicit data comprise any of demographics, qualifications, survey responses, assessments, deal registrations, and third party data sources.
8. The method according to claim 6, wherein the implicit data comprise any of pre-sales and post-sales account engagement, marketing engagement, prospect usage of the product, and combinations thereof.
9. A machine learning and adaptive optimization method, the method comprising: continually receiving client data for a plurality of closed opportunities from a plurality of clients, the client data comprising client behaviors and respective outcomes of software trials of a product maintained in a database, each client of the plurality of clients having the product installed on the each client, the product updating a product roadmap of the product, the product roadmap comprising a technical specification for the product and the product roadmap being automatically adjustable to include a new feature; determining, based on the client data, predictors comprising one or more attributes that correlate to successful opportunities of the plurality of closed opportunities that resulted in a purchase of the product, the predictors further comprising one or more attributes that correlate to unsuccessful opportunities of the plurality of closed opportunities that did not result in purchases of the product; continually segmenting open opportunities using the predictors, the client behaviors, and respective outcomes; continually scoring the open opportunities using the predictors, the client behaviors, and respective outcomes; automatically updating a technical specification of the product using the segmented open opportunities and the scored open opportunities; tailoring a targeted proposal to clients associated with the open opportunities that have client behaviors that are associated with closed won opportunities; and applying a feedback loop that utilizes, for the continually segmenting and the continually scoring the open opportunities, client behaviors of the clients receiving the targeted proposal if the client behaviors result in closed opportunities, the feedback loop placing the client behaviors into the database and updating the predictors based on client data received from the clients resulting in the closed opportunities, the feedback loop being a closed loop feedback process for selectively adjusting value propositions, targeted proposals, messaging, prospecting, and the product roadmap based on continual rescoring, with a goal of quickly converting high scoring prospects and adjusting targeting of prospects by identification of sticking points, the sticking points being low scoring aspects or components of an opportunity score.
10. A machine learning and adaptive optimization system, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor and storing instructions, the instructions being executable by the processor to: continually receive client data for a plurality of closed opportunities from a plurality of clients, the client data comprising client behaviors and respective outcomes of software trials of a product maintained in a database, each client of the plurality of clients having the product installed on the each client, the product updating a product roadmap of the product, the product roadmap comprising a technical specification for the product and the product roadmap being automatically adjustable to include a new feature; determine, based on the client data, predictors that include weighted client behaviors and respective outcomes from closed opportunities of the plurality of closed opportunities that resulted in a purchase of the product; continually segment open opportunities using the weighted client behaviors and respective outcomes relative to the predictors for the product; continually score the open opportunities using the weighted client behaviors and respective outcomes relative to the predictors for the product; automatically update a technical specification of the product using the segmented open opportunities, the scored open opportunities, and the predictors; update the predictors based on client data received for opportunities of the open opportunities that result in successfully closed opportunities; and applying a feedback loop that utilizes, for the continually segment and the continually score the open opportunities, client behaviors of the clients receiving a targeted proposal if the client behaviors result in closed opportunities, the feedback loop placing the client behaviors into the database and updating the predictors based on client data received from the clients resulting in the closed opportunities, the feedback loop being a closed loop feedback process for selectively adjusting value propositions, targeted proposals, messaging, prospecting, and the product roadmap based on continual rescoring, with a goal of quickly converting high scoring prospects and adjusting targeting of prospects by identification of sticking points, the sticking points being low scoring aspects or components of an opportunity score.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to selectively adjust the targeted proposal for each of the open opportunities based on a targeting scheme.
12. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to selectively source in prospects based on the segmentation and the scoring.
13. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to selectively present the targeted proposal to existing customers and create expansion opportunities based on a targeting scheme.
14. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to prioritize clients associated with the open opportunities based on the continual scoring.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein highest scoring open opportunities comprise the client behaviors that are indicative of, or match, the client behaviors of successful closed opportunities.
16. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to provide the product for download to clients.
17. The system according to claim 10, wherein the client behaviors comprises explicit data and implicit data.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the explicit data comprise any of demographics, qualifications, survey responses, assessments, deal registrations, and third party data sources.
19. The system according to claim 17, wherein the implicit data comprise any of pre-sales and post-sales account engagement, marketing engagement, client usage, and combinations thereof.
20. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processor further executes the instructions to selectively adjust one or more phases of a targeting scheme, the one or more phases associated with the software trials.
21. The system according to claim 20, wherein the one or more phases comprises pre-trial, trial, purchase, and post-purchase.
22. The system according to claim 20, wherein the targeting scheme comprises client engagement emails.
</claims>
</document>
