<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B23K31/12,B23K9/095,B25J9/16,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LINCOLN GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOTTMAN, MICHAEL A.
NARAYANAN, BADRI K.
PROCARIO, JOHN R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62715902
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine learning for weldment classification and correlation
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of systems and methods for characterizing weldments are disclosed. One embodiment includes a method of generating an algorithm for classifying weldments as meeting or not meeting a specification. Training data is read by a machine learning system. The training data includes cross-sectional images of training weldments, truth data indicating whether the training weldments meet the specification or not, and training weld data associated with creating the training weldments. The machine learning system trains up an algorithm using the training data such that the resultant algorithm can classify a subsequent test weldment as meeting the specification or not meeting the specification when a cross-sectional image of the test weldment and test weld data used to create the test weldment are read and processed by the classification algorithm as trained.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating training weld data for each of a plurality of training weldments while creating each of the plurality of training weldments using a welding system; acquiring a training cross-sectional image for each of the plurality of training weldments, where each training cross-sectional image reveals an internal grain structure of a corresponding training weldment of the plurality of training weldments; generating truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments, wherein the truth data indicates that each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments meets a specification or does not meet the specification, wherein the specification is a percent refinement of bead grain structure size with respect to a defined or standard bead grain structure size; reading the training weld data, the training cross-sectional image, and the truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments into a memory of a machine learning system as at least one record of training data; and the machine learning system training a classification algorithm using the at least one record of training data, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to classify a test weldment as meeting the specification or not meeting the specification when at least one test cross-sectional image of the test weldment and at least one record of test weld data used to create the test weldment are processed by the classification algorithm as trained.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to generate a probability of the test weldment meeting the specification or not meeting the specification.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system employs supervised learning.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning system employs at least one of a linear regression technique, a logistic regression technique, a decision tree technique, a K-Nearest Neighbor technique, a K-means technique, a support vector machine, a neural network, a Bayesian network, a tensor processing unit, a genetic algorithm technique, a learning classifier system, a Gradient Boosting technique, or an AdaBoost technique.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one record of training data further includes test result data associated with testing at least a portion of the plurality of training weldments, and wherein the test result data includes at least one of bend test data, hardness test data, tensile test data, impact test data, weld metal chemical analysis data, macroetch test data, torque test data, peel test data, break test data, radiography test data, or ultrasonic test data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the training weld data and the test weld data include at least one of joint type data, current type data, transfer mode data, base metal data, filler metal data, shielding data, preheat/interpass data, and welding parameter data.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the welding parameter data includes at least one of welding electrode data, welding current data, welding voltage data, wire feed speed data, electrical stickout data, welding waveform data, weave width data, travel speed data, or welding procedure data.
8. A method comprising: generating training weld data for each of a plurality of training weldments while creating each of the plurality of training weldments using a welding system; acquiring a training cross-sectional image for each of the plurality of training weldments, where each training cross-sectional image reveals an internal grain structure of a corresponding training weldment of the plurality of training weldments; generating truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments, wherein the truth data indicates that each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments meets a specification or does not meet the specification, wherein the specification is a percent refinement of bead grain structure size with respect to a defined or standard bead grain structure; reading the training weld data, the training cross-sectional image, and the truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments into a memory of a machine learning system as at least one record of training data; and the machine learning system training a classification algorithm using the at least one record of training data, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to classify a sample set of weld data for creating a sample weldment, when processed by the classification algorithm as trained, as resulting in a sample weldment that would meet the specification or would not meet the specification were the sample set of weld data used to create the sample weldment.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to generate a probability that the sample set of weld data would result in the sample weldment meeting the specification or not meeting the specification.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one record of training data further includes test result data associated with testing at least a portion of the plurality of training weldments, and wherein the test result data includes at least one of bend test data, hardness test data, tensile test data, impact test data, weld metal chemical analysis data, macroetch test data, torque test data, peel test data, break test data, radiography test data, or ultrasonic test data.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning system employs supervised learning.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning system employs at least one of a linear regression technique, a logistic regression technique, a decision tree technique, a K-Nearest Neighbor technique, a K-means technique, a support vector machine, a neural network, a Bayesian network, a tensor processing unit, a genetic algorithm technique, a learning classifier system, a Gradient Boosting technique, or an AdaBoost technique.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the training weld data and the sample set of weld data include at least one of joint type data, current type data, transfer mode data, base metal data, filler metal data, shielding data, preheat/interpass data, and welding parameter data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the welding parameter data includes at least one of welding electrode data, welding current data, welding voltage data, wire feed speed data, electrical stickout data, welding waveform data, weave width data, travel speed data, or welding procedure data.
15. A method comprising: generating training weld data for each of a plurality of training weldments while creating each of the plurality of training weldments using a welding system; acquiring a training cross-sectional image for each of the plurality of training weldments, where each training cross-sectional image reveals an internal grain structure of a corresponding training weldment of the plurality of training weldments; generating truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments, wherein the truth data indicates that each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments meets a specification or does not meet the specification, wherein the specification is a percent refinement of bead grain structure size with respect to a defined or standard bead grain structure size; reading the training weld data, the training cross-sectional image, and the truth data for each training weldment of the plurality of training weldments into a memory of a machine learning system as at least one record of training data; and the machine learning system training a classification algorithm using the at least one record of training data, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to determine at least one new record of test weld data that could have been used to create a test weldment when at least one image of a cross section of the test weldment is processed by the classification algorithm as trained.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the classification algorithm is trained to generate a probability that the test weldment meets the specification or does not meet the specification.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one record of training data further includes test result data associated with testing at least a portion of the plurality of training weldments, and wherein the test result data includes at least one of bend test data, hardness test data, tensile test data, impact test data, weld metal chemical analysis data, macroetch test data, torque test data, peel test data, break test data, radiography test data, or ultrasonic test data.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the training weld data and the at least one new record of test weld data includes at least one of joint type data, current type data, transfer mode data, base metal data, filler metal data, shielding data, preheat/interpass data, and welding parameter data.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the welding parameter data includes at least one of welding electrode data, welding current data, welding voltage data, wire feed speed data, electrical stickout data, welding waveform data, weave width data, travel speed data, or welding procedure data.
</claims>
</document>
