<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A44C17/00,G01N21/87,G06F3/048
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE DIAMOND PRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEISSMAN, IRA BROOKOFF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69230226
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods, systems, and media for rating and analyzing diamonds
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and media for rating and analyzing diamonds are provided. In some embodiments, the method comprises: receiving, from a user device, a selection of a diamond from a plurality of diamonds; in response to receiving the selection of the diamond, receiving at least one image of the diamond and a plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; calculating an eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the diamond that indicates a clarity of the diamond when viewed without magnification and a brilliance score corresponding to the diamond that indicates an amount of light reflected through the diamond based on the at least one image of the diamond and at least one rating of the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; and causing a user interface to be presented on the user device indicates the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for rating and analyzing diamonds, comprising: receiving, from a user device, a selection of a diamond from a plurality of diamonds; in response to receiving the selection of the diamond, receiving at least one image of the diamond and a plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; calculating an eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the diamond that indicates a clarity of the diamond when viewed without magnification and a brilliance score corresponding to the diamond that indicates an amount of light reflected through the diamond based on the at least one image of the diamond and at least one rating of the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; and causing a user interface to be presented on the user device indicates the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein calculating the eye-cleanliness score comprises using the at least one image of the diamond and the at least one rating from the plurality of ratings as inputs to a trained machine learning algorithm, and wherein the eye-cleanliness score is an output of the trained machine learning algorithm.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of ratings includes a score indicating a clarity of the diamond.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating an overall score corresponding to the diamond based on the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein the user interface indicates the overall score.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, from the user device, a second selection of a second diamond from the plurality of diamonds; calculating a second eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the second diamond and a second brilliance score corresponding to the second diamond; calculating a second overall score corresponding to the second diamond based on the second eye-cleanliness score and the second brilliance score; ranking the diamond and the second diamond based on the overall score corresponding to the diamond and the second overall score corresponding to the second diamond; and causing an indication of the ranking to be presented in the user interface.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a setting corresponding to the diamond based on the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond, wherein determining the setting comprises determining a metal type of the setting, and wherein the user interface indicates the setting.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the setting further comprises determining a height of the diamond within the setting.
7. A system for rating and analyzing diamonds, the system comprising: a hardware processor that is programmed to: receive, from a user device, a selection of a diamond from a plurality of diamonds; in response to receiving the selection of the diamond, receive at least one image of the diamond and a plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; calculate an eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the diamond that indicates a clarity of the diamond when viewed without magnification and a brilliance score corresponding to the diamond that indicates an amount of light reflected through the diamond based on the at least one image of the diamond and at least one rating of the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; and cause a user interface to be presented on the user device indicates the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein calculating the eye-cleanliness score comprises using the at least one image of the diamond and the at least one rating from the plurality of ratings as inputs to a trained machine learning algorithm, and wherein the eye-cleanliness score is an output of the trained machine learning algorithm.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the plurality of ratings includes a score indicating a clarity of the diamond.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to calculate an overall score corresponding to the diamond based on the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein the user interface indicates the overall score.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to: receive, from the user device, a second selection of a second diamond from the plurality of diamonds; calculate a second eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the second diamond and a second brilliance score corresponding to the second diamond; calculate a second overall score corresponding to the second diamond based on the second eye-cleanliness score and the second brilliance score; rank the diamond and the second diamond based on the overall score corresponding to the diamond and the second overall score corresponding to the second diamond; and cause an indication of the ranking to be presented in the user interface.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the hardware processor is further programmed to determine a setting corresponding to the diamond based on the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond, wherein determining the setting comprises determining a metal type of the setting, and wherein the user interface indicates the setting.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the setting further comprises determining a height of the diamond within the setting.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method for rating and analyzing diamonds, the method comprising: receiving, from a user device, a selection of a diamond from a plurality of diamonds; in response to receiving the selection of the diamond, receiving at least one image of the diamond and a plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; calculating an eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the diamond that indicates a clarity of the diamond when viewed without magnification and a brilliance score corresponding to the diamond that indicates an amount of light reflected through the diamond based on the at least one image of the diamond and at least one rating of the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond; and causing a user interface to be presented on the user device indicates the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein calculating the eye-cleanliness score comprises using the at least one image of the diamond and the at least one rating from the plurality of ratings as inputs to a trained machine learning algorithm, and wherein the eye-cleanliness score is an output of the trained machine learning algorithm.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the plurality of ratings includes a score indicating a clarity of the diamond.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises calculating an overall score corresponding to the diamond based on the eye-cleanliness score and the brilliance score, wherein the user interface indicates the overall score.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, from the user device, a second selection of a second diamond from the plurality of diamonds; calculating a second eye-cleanliness score corresponding to the second diamond and a second brilliance score corresponding to the second diamond; calculating a second overall score corresponding to the second diamond based on the second eye-cleanliness score and the second brilliance score; ranking the diamond and the second diamond based on the overall score corresponding to the diamond and the second overall score corresponding to the second diamond; and causing an indication of the ranking to be presented in the user interface.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises determining a setting corresponding to the diamond based on the plurality of ratings corresponding to the diamond, wherein determining the setting comprises determining a metal type of the setting, and wherein the user interface indicates the setting.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein determining the setting further comprises determining a height of the diamond within the setting.
</claims>
</document>
