<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KARP, SCOTT
MUELLER, ERIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68764351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for proactive intervention to reduce high cost channel usage
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments disclosed herein generally relate to a system and method for proactively generating an intervening message for a remote client device in response to an anticipated user action. A computing system receives one or more streams of user activity. The one or more streams of user activity include interaction with a server of an organization via an application executing on the remote client device. The computing system inputs the one or more streams of user activity into a prediction model. The computing system identifies an anticipated user action based on a prediction output from the prediction model. The computing system determines, based on a solution model, a proposed solution to the anticipated user action. The computing system generates an anticipated message to be transmitted to the remote client device of the user. The computing system transmits the anticipated message to the remote client device of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of proactively generating an intervening message for a remote client device in response to an anticipated user action, comprising: receiving, by a computing server of an organization from the remote client device, one or more streams of user activity, wherein the one or more streams of user activity comprises interaction of a user with the computing server of the organization via an application executing on the remote client device; inputting, by the computing server, the one or more streams of user activity into a prediction model; identifying, by the computing server, an anticipated user action based on a prediction output from the prediction model, the anticipated user action corresponding to a predicted action to be taken by the user via a first communication channel; determining, by the computing server, based on a solution model, a proposed solution to the anticipated user action, wherein the proposed solution addresses the predicted action to be taken by the user via the first communication channel; determining, by the computing server, that a second communication channel is available to address the anticipated user action, wherein the second communication channel is a lower cost communication channel compared to the first communication channel; based on determining that the second communication channel is available, generating, by the computing server, a message to be transmitted to the remote client device of the user via the second communication channel, the message comprising an indication of the proposed solution to the anticipated user action; and transmitting, by the computing server, the message to the remote client device of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is generated based on historical communications between the user and the organization via one or more communication channels.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying, by the computing server, the anticipated user action based on the prediction output from the prediction model, comprises: identifying a most probable action to be taken by the user based on the one or more streams of user activity.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is based on prior user activity with respect to the first communication channel.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is based on prior activity of additional users with respect to the first communication channel.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the message is an email message that comprises one or more proposed actions to be taken.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the message is a text message via an automated chatbot configured for engaging a dialogue with the user.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computing server, a response to the message from the remote client device, the response generated based on a user acceptance of the proposed solution in the message, the response comprising a request to take further action based on the proposed solution; generating, by the computing server, an event based on the request; and executing, by the computing server, the request.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the response is received via the second communication channel responsive to a user selection of the indication of the proposed solution in the transmitted message.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the message comprises a hyperlink that is actionable by the user, wherein selection of the hyperlink initiates a dialogue with a virtual assistant.
11. A method of proactively generating an intervening message for a remote client device in response to an anticipated user action, comprising: generating, by a computing server, a prediction model configured to anticipate an inquiry from a user based on user behavior; receiving, by the computing server, one or more streams of user activity, wherein the one or more streams of user activity comprises interaction with a server of an organization via an application executing on the remote client device; inputting, by the computing server, the one or more streams of user activity into the prediction model; identifying, by the computing server, an anticipated user action based on a prediction output from the prediction model, the anticipated user action corresponding to a predicted action to be taken by the user via a call center service communication channel; determining, by the computing server, based on a solution model, a proposed solution to the predicted action, wherein the proposed solution addresses the predicted action to be taken by the user; determining, by the computing server, that a second communication channel is available to address the anticipated user action, wherein the second communication channel comprises an electronic messaging channel or a text messaging channel; based on determining that the second communication channel is available, generating, by the computing server, a message to be transmitted to the remote client device of the user via the second communication channel, the message comprising an indication of the proposed solution; and transmitting, by the computing server, the message to the remote client device of the user.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the prediction model is based on prior user activity with respect to the call center service communication channel.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the prediction model is based on prior user activity of additional users with respect to the call center service communication channel.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein identifying, by the computing server, the anticipated user action based on the prediction output from the prediction model, comprises: identifying a most probable action to be taken by the user based on the one or more streams of user activity.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, by the computing server, a response to the message from the remote client device, the response comprising a request to take further action based on the proposed solution; generating, by the computing server, an event based on the request; and executing, by the computing server, the request.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating, by the computing server, a confirmation message to be transmitted to the user; and transmitting, by the computing server, the confirmation message to the remote client device.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the response is received via a same communication channel as the message.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the message comprises a hyperlink that is actionable by the user, wherein selection of the hyperlink initiates a dialogue with a virtual assistant.
19. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory having programming instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by the processor, performs an operation, comprising: receiving, by the processor, one or more streams of user activity, wherein the one or more streams of user activity comprises interaction of a user with a server of an organization via an application executing on a remote client device; identifying, by the processor, an anticipated user action based on a prediction output from a prediction model, the anticipated user action corresponding to a predicted action to be taken by the user via a first communication channel; determining, by the processor, based on a solution model, a proposed solution to the anticipated user action, wherein the proposed solution addresses the predicted action to be taken by the user via the first communication channel; determining, by the processor, that a second communication channel is available to address the anticipated user action, wherein the second communication channel is a lower cost communication channel compared to the first communication channel; based on determining that the second communication channel is available, generating, by the processor, a message to be transmitted to the remote client device of the user via the second communication channel, the message comprising an indication of the proposed solution to the anticipated user action; and transmitting, by the processor, the message to the remote client device of the user.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the message comprises a hyperlink that is actionable by the user, wherein selection of the hyperlink initiates a dialogue with a virtual assistant.
</claims>
</document>
