<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T11/00,G06T5/00,G06T5/50,G06T7/33,H04N1/60,H04N5/265,H04N5/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOURRET, LOUIS-PHILIPPE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60037717
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Recolorization of infrared image streams
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and devices for colorizing an infrared image stream may include receiving an infrared (IR) image stream of a scene. The methods and devices may include detecting at least one object in the IR image stream and receiving, from a red green blue (RGB) knowledge base, a RGB texture corresponding to the at least one object detected in the IR image stream. The methods and devices may include processing the RGB texture by matching coordinates in the RGB texture with corresponding coordinates in the at least one object to produce a colorized IR image stream. The methods and devices may include transmitting the colorized IR image stream of the scene wherein the at least one object is displayed in color based on the processing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer device, comprising: a memory to store data and instructions; a processor in communication with the memory; and an operating system in communication with the memory and the processor, wherein the operating system is operable to: receive an infrared (IR) Image stream of a scene, illuminated by an IR light source, including IR pixel intensities; detect at least one object in the IR image stream and corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities; receive, from a red green blue (RGB) knowledge base, a RGB texture Including RGB pixel intensities corresponding to the at least one object detected in the IR image stream; process the RGB texture by matching coordinates in the RGB texture with corresponding coordinates in the at least one object to produce a colorized IR image stream by blending the RGB pixel intensities from the RGB texture with the corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object by using an estimation of IR light provided by the IR light source to determine a final color value for the RGB texture in the colorized IR stream; and transmit the colorized IR image stream of the scene wherein the at least one object is displayed in color based on the processing.
2. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to: detect a light level in the scene; and receive the IR image stream of the scene in response to the light level being below a threshold level.
3. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to estimate an orientation of the at least one object by processing identified landmarks in the at least one object and map the RGB texture to the estimated orientation of the at least one object.
4. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to transmit an identifier of the at least one object to the RGB knowledge base and receive the corresponding RGB texture based on the identifier.
5. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to preprocess the RGB texture to produce an even color distribution on the RGB texture and to blend the RGB pixel intensities from the RGB texture with the corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object based on the preprocessed RGB texture.
6. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the RGB knowledge base receives images from one or more applications executing on the computer device.
7. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the colorized IR stream displays unidentified objects in gray or monochrome.
8. A method for colorizing an infrared image stream, comprising: receiving, at an operating system executing on a computer device, an infrared (IR) image stream of a scene, illuminated by an IR light source, including IR pixel intensities; detecting, by the operating system, at least one object in the IR image stream and corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities; receiving, from a red green blue (RGB) knowledge base, a RGB texture including RGB pixel intensities corresponding to the at least one object detected in the IR image stream; processing the RGB texture by matching coordinates in the RGB texture with corresponding coordinates in the at least one object to produce a colorized IR image stream by blending the RGB pixel intensities from the RGB texture with the corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object by using an estimation of IR light provided by the IR light source to determine a final color value for the RGB texture in the colorized IR stream; and transmitting the colorized IR image stream of the scene wherein the at least one object is displayed in color based on the processing.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: detecting a light level in the scene; and receiving the IR Image stream of the scene in response to the light level being below a threshold level.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: estimating an orientation of the at least one object by processing identified landmarks in the at least one object, and wherein mapping the RGB texture further comprises mapping the RGB texture to the estimated orientation of the at least one object.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: transmitting an identifier of the at least one object to the RGB knowledge base, and wherein the corresponding RGB texture is received based on the identifier.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising preprocessing the RGB texture to produce an even color distribution on the RGB texture and wherein blending the RGB pixel intensities from the RGB texture with the corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object is based on the preprocessed RGB texture.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the RGB knowledge base receives images from one or more applications executing on the computer device.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the colorized IR stream displays unidentified objects in gray or monochrome.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a computer device, comprising: at least one instruction for causing the computer device to receive an infrared (IR) image stream of a scene, illuminated by an IR light source, including IR pixel intensities; at least one instruction for causing the computer device to detect at least one object in the IR image stream and corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities; at least one instruction for causing the computer device to receive, from a red green blue (RGB) knowledge base, a RGB texture including RGB pixel intensities corresponding to the at least one object detected in the IR image stream; at least one instruction for causing the computer device to process the RGB texture by matching coordinates in the RGB texture with corresponding coordinates in the at least one object to produce a colorized IR image stream by blending the RGB pixel intensities from the RGB texture with the corresponding ones of the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object by using an estimation of IR light provided by the IR light source to determine a final color value for the RGB texture in the colorized IR stream; and at least one instruction for causing the computer device to transmit the colorized IR image stream of the scene wherein the at least one object is displayed in color based on the processing.
16. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to multiply a color channel of the RGB texture with the IR pixel intensities of the at least one object to determine the final color value for the RGB texture in the colored IR Image stream.
17. The computer device of claim 1, wherein the operating system is further operable to normalize the RGB texture by providing a uniformly lit RGB texture and use the normalized RGB texture.
</claims>
</document>
