<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E05C17/00,E05F1/10,E05F3/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHLAGE LOCK COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLEMAN, MICHAEL, D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71073460
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Door closer with hold-open and release
</title>

<abstract>
Certain embodiments relate to a hold-open assembly for a door closer including a pinion operable to rotate in a closing direction and an opposite opening direction. The hold-open assembly includes a ratchet wheel, a pawl, a controller, and a driver. The ratchet wheel is structured to be mounted to the pinion for joint rotation therewith. The pawl has an engaged position in which the pawl prevents rotation of the ratchet wheel in the closing direction, and has a disengaged position in which the pawl permits rotation of the ratchet wheel in both the opening direction and the closing direction. The controller is operable to determine a release condition and is configured to transmit a release signal in response to determining the release condition. The driver is configured to move the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position in response to the release signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A door closer configured for use with a doorframe and a door movably mounted to the doorframe, the door closer comprising: a body portion configured for mounting to one of the doorframe and the door; a pinion rotatably mounted to the body portion, wherein the pinion is operable to rotate in a closing direction and an opening direction opposite the closing direction; an armature having a first end portion and an opposite second end portion, wherein the first end portion is configured to be pivotably coupled to the other of the door and the doorframe, and wherein the second end portion is coupled to the pinion for joint rotation therewith; a ratchet wheel mounted to the pinion such that the pinion and the ratchet wheel are coupled for joint rotation in the closing direction and the opening direction; a pawl selectively engaged with the ratchet wheel, the pawl having an engaged position in which the pawl permits rotation of the ratchet wheel in the opening direction and prevents rotation of the ratchet wheel in the closing direction, the pawl having a disengaged position in which the pawl permits rotation of the ratchet wheel in both the opening direction and the closing direction; a driver operable to move the pawl between the engaged position and the disengaged position, wherein the driver comprises a slip ring having a locking position in which the slip ring permits the pawl to remain in the engaged position and an unlocking position in which the slip ring maintains the pawl in the disengaged position; and a controller in communication with the driver and operable to cause the driver to move the pawl between the engaged position and the disengaged position.
2. The door closer of claim 1, wherein the driver comprises an electromechanical actuator; and wherein the door closer further comprises an onboard power supply operable to supply electrical power to the electromechanical actuator and to the controller.
3. The door closer of claim 2, wherein the controller is configured to transmit a release signal to the electromechanical actuator in response to determining a release condition; and wherein the driver is configured to move the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position in response to the release signal.
4. The door closer of claim 3, further comprising at least one input device in communication with the controller; and wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition based upon information received from the at least one input device.
5. The door closer of claim 4, wherein the at least one input device comprises power level sensor monitoring a power level of the onboard power supply; and wherein the controller is configured to transmit the release signal in response to the power level of the onboard power supply falling below a predetermined threshold.
6. The door closer of claim 5, wherein the predetermined threshold is a safety threshold at which remaining power in the onboard power supply is sufficient to actuate the driver to drive the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position with a factor of safety; wherein the safety threshold is greater than a failure threshold below which the remaining power in the onboard power supply is insufficient to actuate the driver to drive the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position; and wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to the power level of the onboard power supply being between the safety threshold and the failure threshold.
7. The door closer of claim 4, wherein the at least one input device comprises a microphone.
8. The door closer of claim 7, wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to determining that the information received from the microphone is indicative of an audible alarm sounding.
9. The door closer of claim 8, wherein the controller is configured to determine that the information received from the microphone is indicative of an audible alarm sounding based upon at least one of (i) a frequency of detected sound, (ii) a duration of detected sound, or (iii) a periodicity of detected sound.
10. The door closer of claim 4, wherein the at least one input device comprises a wireless communication device; and wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to receiving a release command via the wireless communication device.
11. The door closer of claim 4, wherein the at least one input device comprises a smoke detector; and wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to detecting smoke via the smoke detector.
12. The door closer of claim 1, wherein the pinion is biased in the closing direction and the pawl is biased toward the engaged position.
13. A closure assembly including the door closer of claim 1, the closure assembly further comprising a doorframe and a door; wherein the body portion is mounted to the one of the doorframe and the door; wherein the second end portion of the armature is pivotably coupled to the other of the doorframe and the door; wherein closing movement of the door is correlated with rotation of the pinion in the closing direction; and wherein opening movement of the door is correlated with rotation of the pinion in the opening direction.
14. A method of operating the closure assembly of claim 13, wherein the door closer further comprises at least one input device in communication with the controller, and wherein the method comprises: selectively maintaining the pawl in the engaged position, thereby preventing closing movement of the door; determining, by the controller, a release condition based upon information received from the at least one input device; transmitting, by the controller, a release signal to the driver in response to determining the release condition; and moving, by the driver, the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position, thereby permitting closing movement of the door.
15. The door closer of claim 1, wherein the driver comprises an electromechanical actuator; wherein the controller is operable to determine a release condition of the driver and to transmit a release signal to the driver in response to determining the release condition to move the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position; and wherein the door closer further comprises: an onboard power supply operable to supply electrical power to the controller and to the electromechanical actuator; a power supply sensor sensing a power level of the power supply, wherein the controller is configured to determine a release condition of the driver in response to the power level falling below a predetermined threshold power level; and a microphone configured to detect sounds, wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to a detected sound matching an alarm profile.
16. The door closer of claim 15, wherein the driver comprises a rotary motor.
17. The door closer of claim 16, wherein the rotary motor is configured to rotate the slip ring between the locking position and the unlocking position.
18. The door closer of claim 17, wherein the driver further comprises a drive gear driven by the rotary motor; and wherein an outer periphery of the slip ring includes gear teeth meshed with teeth of the drive gear.
19. The door closer of claim 15, further comprising a spring biasing the pawl toward the engaged position.
20. A door closer configured for use with a doorframe and a door movably mounted to the doorframe, the door closer comprising: a body portion configured for mounting to one of the doorframe and the door; a pinion rotatably mounted to the body portion and operable to rotate in a closing direction and an opening direction; a ratchet wheel mounted to the pinion for joint rotation therewith in the closing direction and the opening direction; a pawl selectively engaged with the ratchet wheel, the pawl having an engaged position in which the pawl is engaged with the ratchet wheel and a disengaged position in which the pawl is disengaged from the ratchet wheel, wherein the pawl in the engaged position permits rotation of the ratchet wheel in the opening direction and prevents rotation of the ratchet wheel in the closing direction, and wherein the pawl in the disengaged position permits rotation of the ratchet wheel in both the opening direction and the closing direction; an electromechanical driver operable to move the pawl between the engaged position and the disengaged position, wherein the electromechanical driver comprises a slip ring having a locking position in which the slip ring permits the pawl to remain in the engaged position and an unlocking position in which the slip ring maintains the pawl in the disengaged position; and a controller in communication with the electromechanical driver and operable to cause the driver to move the pawl between the engaged position and the disengaged position.
21. The door closer of claim 20, wherein the controller is operable to determine a release condition and to transmit a release signal to the electromechanical driver to move the pawl from the engaged position to the disengaged position.
22. The door closer of claim 21, wherein the door closer further comprises an onboard power supply operable to supply electrical power to the electromechanical driver and to the controller; wherein the door closer further comprises a power supply sensor sensing a power level of the onboard power supply; and wherein the controller determines the release condition in response to the sensed power level falling below a predetermined threshold power level.
23. The door closer of claim 21, wherein the door closer further comprises an onboard power supply operable to supply electrical power to the electromechanical driver and to the controller; wherein the door closer further comprises a microphone configured to detect sounds; and wherein the controller is configured to determine the release condition in response to a detected sound matching an alarm profile.
24. The door closer of claim 20, further comprising an armature having a first end portion and an opposite second end portion, wherein the first end portion is configured to be pivotably coupled to the other of the door and the doorframe, and wherein the second end portion is coupled to the pinion for joint rotation therewith.
25. The door closer of claim 20, wherein the driver comprises a rotary motor configured to rotate the slip ring between the locking position and the unlocking position.
</claims>
</document>
