<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/36,G06F13/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALLE, SUSANNE M.
DORMITZER PAUL
GRECCO, JOSEPH
SEN, SUJOY
PUTYRSKI, SLAWOMIR
BERNAT, FRANCESC GUIM
CUSTODIO, EVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69008148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technologies for establishing communication channel between accelerator device kernels
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for providing I/O channel abstraction for accelerator device kernels include an accelerator device comprising circuitry to obtain availability data indicative of an availability of one or more accelerator device kernels in a system, including one or more physical communication paths to each accelerator device kernel. The circuitry is also configured to determine whether to establish a logical communication path between a kernel of the present accelerator device and another accelerator device kernel and establish, in response to a determination to establish the logical communication path as a function of the obtained availability data, the logical communication path between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An accelerator device comprising: circuitry to: obtain availability data indicative of an availability of one or more accelerator device kernels in a system, including one or more physical communication paths to each accelerator device kernel; determine whether to establish a logical communication path between a kernel of the present accelerator device and another accelerator device kernel, wherein the logical communication path is not yet established; and establish, in response to a determination to establish the logical communication path as a function of the obtained availability data, the logical communication path between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel.
2. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to determine whether to establish the logical communication path comprises to receive a request to establish a logical communication path, and to establish the logical communication path comprises establish the logical communication path in response to a receipt of the request.
3. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to determine whether to establish the logical communication path comprises to determine whether a quality of service is below a service level agreement associated with a tenant of the one or more accelerator device kernels, and to establish the logical communication path comprises to establish the logical communication path in response to a determination that the quality of service is below the service level agreement.
4. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to determine whether to establish the logical communication path comprises to determine whether a power consumption of the accelerator device exceeds a predefined threshold, and to establish the logical communication path comprises to establish the logical communication path in response to a determination that the power consumption exceeds the predefined threshold.
5. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine a latency associated with each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined latency.
6. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine, for each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel, a number of intermediary devices along the physical communication path; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined number of intermediary devices.
7. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine, for each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel, an amount of congestion on the physical communication path; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined amount of congestion.
8. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to allocate multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel to the logical communication path.
9. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to allocate, as a function of a quality of service parameter associated with the kernel of the present accelerator device, a portion of a total amount of communication capacity of the physical communication path to the logical communication path for use by the kernel of the present accelerator device.
10. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to reroute the logical communication path as a function of updated availability data.
11. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to send data indicative of the established logical communication path to the other accelerator device kernel.
12. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further to communicate data between the kernel of the present accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel with the established logical communication path.
13. The accelerator device of claim 12, wherein to communicate data comprises to add a header to a packet, wherein the header includes data indicative of the established logical communication path.
14. The accelerator device of claim 12, wherein to communicate data comprises to remove a header from a packet received by the present accelerator device, wherein the header includes data indicative of the established logical communication path.
15. The accelerator device of claim 12, wherein to communicate data comprises to utilize multiple I/O ports or network interface controllers associated with the present accelerator device for the established logical communication path.
16. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to establish a logical communication path with each of multiple other accelerator device kernels.
17. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to obtain availability data comprises to obtain data indicative of a present capacity of each accelerator device, data indicative of a location of each accelerator device, or data indicative of types of available accelerator device kernels.
18. The accelerator device of claim 1, wherein to obtain availability data comprises to obtain the availability data from another accelerator device or from a telemetry service device.
19. One or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that, in response to being executed, cause an accelerator device to: obtain availability data indicative of an availability of one or more accelerator device kernels in a system, including one or more physical communication paths to each accelerator device kernel; determine whether to establish a logical communication path between a kernel of an accelerator device and another accelerator device kernel, wherein the logical communication path is not yet established; and establish, in response to a determination to establish the logical communication path as a function of the obtained availability data, the logical communication path between the kernel of the accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel.
20. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 19, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine a latency associated with each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined latency.
21. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 19, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine, for each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel, a number of intermediary devices along the physical communication path; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined number of intermediary devices.
22. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 19, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to: determine, for each of multiple physical communication paths between the kernel of the accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel, an amount of congestion on the physical communication path; and select, as the logical communication path, the physical communication path associated with the lowest determined amount of congestion.
23. A method comprising: obtaining, by an accelerator device, availability data indicative of an availability of one or more accelerator device kernels in a system, including one or more physical communication paths to each accelerator device kernel; determining, by the accelerator device, whether to establish a logical communication path between a kernel of the accelerator device and another accelerator device kernel, wherein the logical communication path is not yet established; and establishing, by the accelerator device and in response to determining to establish the logical communication path as a function of the obtained availability data, the logical communication path between the kernel of the accelerator device and the other accelerator device kernel.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to reroute the logical communication path as a function of updated availability data.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein to establish the logical communication path comprises to send data indicative of the established logical communication path to the other accelerator device kernel.
</claims>
</document>
