<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,H04L29/08,H04W24/00,H04W4/021,H04W4/12,H04W76/14,H04W76/23
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANTOSUOSSO, JOHN M.
NIKOLAI, JASON A.
BRAHAM, ADAM D.
SCHMIDT, JEFFREY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66659677
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Location based third party notification
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provides methods, computer program products, and a system for determining a set of potential responders to alert a second party regarding an urgent communication. Embodiments of the present invention can be used to determine if a missed communication placed by a first party to a second party is an urgent communication. Embodiments of the present invention can be used to determine a set of potential responders based, at least in part, on a variety of possible locations of a communication device belonging to the second party.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining a mutual communication link was not established for a communication between a first electronic device and a second electronic device, wherein the first electronic device is associated with a first user and the second electronic device is associated with a second user; determining the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal; estimating a set of possible locations for the second electronic device; and determining a set of potential responders to alert the second user based, at least in part, on: (i) the set of possible locations for the second electronic device and (ii) identifying respective users whose interactions with the second user exceed a predetermined threshold for interactions based, at least in part, on: accessing the second user's social media accounts; identifying users linked to the second user's social media accounts; identifying respective interactions between the second user and each of the users linked to the second user's social media accounts; and comparing each of the users identified interactions with the second user against the predetermined threshold for interactions.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a notification for the set of potential responders that comprises, a date of the communication, a time that the communication was sent, identification credentials for the second user, and a custom message that the first user includes for a potential responder of the set of potential responders to deliver to the second user and additional identification information regarding the second user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: sending the notification to the set of potential responders; and determining that the custom message was received by the second user.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: responsive to determining that the custom message was not received by the second user, increasing a range in proximity to the second electronic device that is used to determine a new set of potential responders; determining the new set of potential responders based on the increased range in proximity to the second electronic device; and sending the notification to the new set of potential responders.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal comprises: accessing communication logs between the first user and the second user; determining a communication pattern between the first user and the second user using the accessed communication logs, wherein the communication pattern is determined using a k-nearest neighbor calculation; and identifying, the communication as an abnormal communication based upon the determined communication pattern.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the set of potential responders to alert the second user is further based, at least in part, on: retrieving a range within a proximity of the second electronic device; and selecting users within the range as the set of potential responders to alert the second user.
7. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to determine a mutual communication link was not established for a communication between a first electronic device and a second electronic device, wherein the first electronic device is associated with a first user and the second electronic device is associated with a second user; program instructions to determine the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal; program instructions to estimate a set of possible locations for the second electronic device; and program instructions to determine a set of potential responders to alert the second user based, at least in part, on: (i) the set of possible locations for the second electronic device and (ii) identifying respective users whose interactions with the second user exceed a predetermined threshold for interactions based, at least in part, on: program instructions to access the second user's social media accounts; program instructions to identify users linked to the second user's social media accounts; program instructions to identify respective interactions between the second user and each of the users linked to the second user's social media accounts; and program instructions to compare each of the users identified interactions with the second user against the predetermined threshold for interactions.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to generate a notification for the set of potential responders that comprises, a date of the communication, a time that the communication was sent, identification credentials for the second user, and a custom message that the first user includes for a potential responder of the set of potential responders to deliver to the second user and additional identification information regarding the second user.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to send the notification to the set of potential responders; and program instructions to determine that the custom message was received by the second user.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, responsive to determining that the custom message was not received by the second user, increase a range in proximity to the second electronic device that is used to determine a new set of potential responders; program instructions to determine the new set of potential responders based on the increased range in proximity to the second electronic device; and program instructions to send the notification to the new set of potential responders.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program instructions to determine the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal comprise: program instructions to access communication logs between the first user and the second user; program instructions to determine a communication pattern between the first user and the second user using the accessed communication logs, wherein the communication pattern is determined using a k-nearest neighbor calculation; and program instructions to identify the communication as an abnormal communication based upon the determined communication pattern.
12. The computer product of claim 7, wherein the program instructions to determine the set of potential responders to alert the second user is further based, at least in part, on: program instructions to retrieve a range within a proximity of the second electronic device; and program instructions to select users within the range as the set of potential responders to alert the second user.
13. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to determine a mutual communication link was not established for a communication between a first electronic device and a second electronic device, wherein the first electronic device is associated with a first user and the second electronic device is associated with a second user; program instructions to determine the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal; program instructions to estimate a set of possible locations for the second electronic device; and program instructions to determine a set of potential responders to alert the second user based, at least in part, on: (i) the set of possible locations for the second electronic device and (ii) identifying respective users whose interactions with the second user exceed a predetermined threshold for interactions based, at least in part, on: program instructions to access the second user's social media accounts; program instructions to identify users linked to the second user's social media accounts; program instructions to identify respective interactions between the second user and each of the users linked to the second user's social media accounts; and program instructions to compare each of the users identified interactions with the second user against the predetermined threshold for interactions. the set of possible locations for the second electronic device.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to generate a notification for the set of potential responders that comprises, a date of the communication, a time that the communication was sent, identification credentials for the second user, and a custom message that the first user includes for a potential responder of the set of potential responders to deliver to the second user and additional identification information regarding the second user.
15. The computer system product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to send the notification to the set of potential responders; and program instructions to determine that the custom message was received by the second user.
16. The computer system product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, responsive to determining that the custom message was not received by the second user, increase a range in proximity to the second electronic device that is used to determine a new set of potential responders; program instructions to determine the new set of potential responders based on the increased range in proximity to the second electronic device; and program instructions to send the notification to the new set of potential responders.
17. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the program instructions to determine the communication between the first electronic device and the second electronic device is abnormal comprise: program instructions to access communication logs between the first user and the second user; program instructions to determine a communication pattern between the first user and the second user using the accessed communication logs, wherein the communication pattern is determined using a k-nearest neighbor calculation; and program instructions to identify the communication as an abnormal communication based upon the determined communication pattern.
18. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the program instructions to determine the set of potential responders to alert the second user is further based, at least in part, on: program instructions to retrieve a range within a proximity of the second electronic device; and program instructions to select users within the range as the set of potential responders to alert the second user.
</claims>
</document>
