<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01M31/00,G06F16/51,G06F3/14,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N5/04,G06T7/292,G06T7/70,H04N5/247
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Ray, Jason
Monk, Harold
WiseEye Technology LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ray, Jason
Monk, Harold
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74066896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Species pattern evaluation
</title>

<abstract>
Methods of evaluating animal activity relating to wildlife areas are disclosed that include running a digital classification routine to recognize particular species in a series of images. From those images data records are developed having the ability to identify timing information, the species, the location, celestial characteristics and atmospheric characteristics. The data records are analyzed to establish correlations between various associated features and the presence of the particular species. Data associated with future celestial characteristics and atmospheric characteristics is obtained and estimated probabilities of future appearances of the particular species are calculated and provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of evaluating animal activity comprising: a. running a neural network type artificial intelligence data analysis to recognize a first species of animal in a first image within a first series of images taken by a first camera at a first location; b. running the neural network type artificial intelligence data analysis to recognize the first species of animal in a second image within the first series of images taken by the first camera; c. creating a first data record having details sufficient to identify: i. a first time at which the first image was taken, ii. the first species of animal, iii. the first location, iv. a first celestial characteristic associated with the first location and the first time and v. a first atmospheric characteristic associated with the first location and the first time; d. creating a second data record having details sufficient to identify: i. a second time at which the second image was taken, ii. the first species of animal, iii. the first location, iv. a second celestial characteristic associated with the first location and the second time and v. a second atmospheric characteristic associated with the first location and the second time; e. retrieving a predictive atmospheric data set associated with the first location; f. retrieving a predictive celestial data set associated with the first location; g. identifying a sequential pattern involving a threatening species wherein the sequential pattern is negatively correlated with the presence of the first species of animal; h. gathering a first separate data set from a local camera group; i. gathering a second separate data set from a regional camera group; j. utilizing the first data record, the second data record, the sequential pattern, the first separate data set and the second separate data set to develop a digital correlation tool and k. using the digital correlation tool to evaluate the predictive atmospheric data set and the predictive celestial data set to estimate a probability of the first species of animal being present during a future time period at the first location.
2. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein no human is within 500 feet of the first location at the time the first image is taken.
3. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein an electronic communication is delivered to a portable electronic device indicating a best time to hunt the first species of animal.
4. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein an electronic notification selected from a text message and an email is delivered to a portable electronic device indicating a best time to hunt the first species of animal.
5. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein an electronic communication is delivered to a portable electronic device indicating a best time to hunt the first species of animal and a first person hunts at the first location at the best time to hunt.
6. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 further comprising receiving a time based predictive data set on a portable electronic device and displaying a time based probability chart on the portable electronic device.
7. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein the first celestial characteristic is a solar characteristic.
8. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein the first celestial characteristic is a lunar characteristic.
9. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 1 wherein the first atmospheric characteristic is an indication of temperature.
10. A method of evaluating animal activity comprising: a. positioning a camera in a wildlife activity area; b. arranging for the camera to take a series of images in the wildlife activity area including an image of a deer and an image of a threatening species; c. conducting an artificial intelligence pattern recognition on the series of images thereby creating camera specific species recognition results; d. creating a first data set from the camera specific species recognition results i. wherein the first data set identifies the deer by time and location and ii. wherein the first data set identifies the threatening species by time and location; e. wherein the first data set contains a set of celestial characteristics and a set of atmospheric characteristics; f. conducting an analysis of the first data set selected from regression analysis and artificial intelligence pattern matching, the analysis of the first data set comprising: i. evaluating a general conditional pattern by matching a predicted instance of atmospheric and celestial conditions to a historical prevalence of deer in similar conditions, ii. identifying a sequential pattern positively correlated with the presence of deer, iii. evaluating a first correlation strength associated with the sequential pattern positively correlated with the presence of deer, iv. identifying a sequential pattern negatively correlated with the presence of deer, and v. evaluating a second correlation strength associated with the sequential pattern negatively correlated with the presence of deer; and g. displaying a time-based relative probability of sighting deer at a future time incorporating: i. the general conditional pattern, ii. the sequential pattern positively correlated with the presence of deer, iii. the first correlation strength, iv. the sequential pattern negatively correlated with the presence of deer, and v. the second correlation strength.
11. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the analysis of the first data set comprises a neural network type artificial intelligence data analysis.
12. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the analysis of the first data set is combined with an analysis of a local camera group and combined with an analysis of a regional camera group to evaluate a composite time-based relative probability of sighting deer.
13. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the threatening species is a wild boar.
14. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the threatening species is a wild boar and the sequential pattern negatively correlated with the presence of deer is based on the recency of the sighting of the wild boar.
15. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the threatening species is a human.
16. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the threatening species is a human and the sequential pattern negatively correlated with the presence of deer is based on the recency of the sighting of the human.
17. A method of evaluating animal activity of claim 10 wherein the analysis of the first data set includes an identification and correlation of the co-occurance of two or more co-factors wherein each co-factor is selected from an atmospheric condition and a celestial condition.
</claims>
</document>
