<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/57,H04M1/725,H04M3/42,H04M3/487,H04W4/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASAN, MADHUSUDHAN
PULICHARLA, DURGA PRASAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69885100
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for curation and delivery of content for use in electronic calls
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are described herein for a computer-based communication application that displays, along with an incoming call notification, content specific to the parties involved. The application identifies electronic records of events attended by the users, and retrieves content specific to those records. For example, the application may identify electronic mail or meeting notifications sent between the users and concerning a particular subject matter. Images related to that subject matter are then retrieved and displayed during calls between those users. Users are thus presented with customized and personalized content specific to the subject matter of each call, thus helping them better recognize callers and more readily engage with the call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining content to be displayed during a call, the method comprising: determining parties to a call made by calling devices of the parties; in response to determining the parties, automatically searching a local storage of each of the calling devices at the time of the call to identify electronic content; identifying common electronic content, among the identified electronic content, that is commonly stored on all of the calling devices of the parties; and retrieving the identified common electronic content for display to the parties during the call.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying additional electronic content, among the identified electronic content having metadata associated with each of the parties; and retrieving the identified additional electronic content for display to the parties during the call.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising retrieving electronic records of events attended by the parties, wherein the automatically searching further comprises automatically searching the local storage of each of the calling devices at the time of the call to identify the electronic content according to attributes of the retrieved electronic records.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying the electronic content according to attributes of the retrieved electronic records further comprises: determining a subject matter of the call according to the attributes of the retrieved electronic records; and selecting the electronic content corresponding to the determined subject matter of the call.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the determining the subject matter of the call further comprises determining the subject matter from a title of the electronic records, a subject line description of the electronic records, or text of a body of the electronic records.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the parties comprise a first party and a second party, and wherein the electronic records comprise one or more of call records corresponding to previous calls between the first party and the second party, meeting records corresponding to meetings between the first party and the second party, document records corresponding to documents exchanged between the first party and the second party, pictures of both the first party and the second party, and pictures of the events.
7. The method of claim 3, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving most recent electronic content from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving electronic content not yet transmitted for display to the parties from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving electronic content generated after an immediately previous one of the calls from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
10. A system for determining content to be displayed during a call, the system comprising: a storage device; and control circuitry configured to: determine parties to a call made by calling devices of the parties; in response to determining the parties, automatically search a local storage of each of the calling devices at the time of the call to identify electronic content; identify common electronic content, among the identified electronic content, that is commonly stored on all of the calling devices of the parties; and retrieve the identified common electronic content for display to the parties during the call.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: identify additional electronic content, among the identified electronic content, having metadata associated with each of the parties; and retrieving the identified additional electronic content for display to the parties during the call.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to retrieve electronic records of events attended by the parties, and wherein the automatically searching further comprises automatically searching the local storage of each of the calling devices at the time of the call to identify the electronic content according to attributes of the retrieved electronic records.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the identifying the electronic content according to attributes of the retrieved electronic records further comprises: determining a subject matter of the call according to the attributes of the retrieved electronic records; and selecting the electronic content corresponding to the determined subject matter of the call.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the determining the subject matter of the call further comprises determining the subject matter of the call from a title of the electronic records, a subject line description of the electronic records, or text of a body of the electronic records.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the parties comprise a first party and a second party, and wherein the electronic records comprise one or more of call records corresponding to previous calls between the first party and the second party, meeting records corresponding to meetings between the first party and the second party, document records corresponding to documents exchanged between the first party and the second party, pictures of both the first party and the second party, and pictures of the events.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving most recent electronic content from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving electronic content not yet transmitted for display to the parties from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the retrieving the identified common electronic content further comprises retrieving electronic content generated after an immediately previous one of the calls from among the retrieved identified common electronic content.
</claims>
</document>
