<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-11-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMENTO, BRIAN S.
BALDWIN, CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53008031
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gesture-based controls via bone conduction
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies are disclosed herein for utilizing bone conduction to detect gestures. According to one aspect, a device can generate a signal and send the signal to a sensor network that is connected to a user. The device can receive a modified signal from the sensor network. The modified signal can include the signal as modified by a body of the user. The device can compare the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal. The device can determine a gesture performed by the user based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising causing a signal to be transmitted to a body of a user, receiving a modified signal comprising the signal, wherein the signal is received by a vibration sensor associated with the user and propagated by at least the vibration sensor through at least one bone of the body of the user, thereby modifying the signal to create the modified signal, comparing the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal, wherein the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal is associated with a pre-defined gesture that defines the difference in the feature as being indicative of a gesture performed by the user, and determining, based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal being associated with the pre-defined gesture, that the user performed the gesture.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein causing the signal to be transmitted to the body of the user comprises causing the signal to be transmitted, from the device, to the at least one bone of the body of the user.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the vibration sensor associated with the user is positioned on the body of the user.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the vibration sensor associated with the user is in the body of the user.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein causing the signal to be transmitted to the body of the user comprises causing the signal to be transmitted, from the device, to the vibration sensor.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the vibration sensor is part of a sensor network comprising a plurality of vibration sensors.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein at least a portion of the sensor network is on the body of the user.
8. The device of claim 6, wherein at least a portion of the sensor network is in the body of the user.
9. A system comprising: a first device comprising a first processor, and a first memory that stores first computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the first processor to perform first operations comprising causing a signal to be transmitted to a body of a user; and a second device comprising a second processor, and a second memory that stores second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the second processor to perform second operations comprising receiving a modified signal comprising the signal, wherein the signal is received by a vibration sensor associated with the user and propagated by at least the vibration sensor through at least one bone of the body of the user, thereby modifying the signal to create the modified signal, comparing the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal, wherein the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal is associated with a pre-defined gesture that defines the difference in the feature as being indicative of a gesture performed by the user, and determining, based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal being associated with the pre-defined gesture, that the user performed the gesture.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein causing the signal to be transmitted to the body of the user comprises causing the signal to be transmitted, from the first device, to the at least one bone of the body of the user.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the vibration sensor associated with the user is positioned on the body of the user.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein causing the signal to be transmitted to the body of the user comprises causing the signal to be transmitted, from the first device, to the vibration sensor.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the vibration sensor associated with the user is in the body of the user.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the vibration sensor is part of a sensor network comprising a plurality of vibration sensors.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein at least a portion of the sensor network is on the body of the user.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein at least a portion of the sensor network is in the body of the user.
17. A method comprising: causing a signal to be transmitted to a body of a user; receiving a modified signal comprising the signal, wherein the signal is received by a vibration sensor associated with the user and propagated by at least the vibration sensor through at least one bone of the body of the user, thereby modifying the signal to create the modified signal; comparing the modified signal to the signal to determine a difference in a feature between the signal and the modified signal, wherein the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal is associated with a pre-defined gesture that defines the difference in the feature as being indicative of a gesture performed by the user; and determining, based upon the difference in the feature between the signal and the modified signal being associated with the pre-defined gesture, that the user performed the gesture.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein causing the signal to be transmitted to the body of the user comprises causing, by a first device, the signal to be transmitted to the at least one bone of the body of the user.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein receiving the modified signal comprises: receiving, by a second device, from the vibration sensor, the modified signal.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: comparing the signal and the modified signal comprises comparing, by the second device, the signal and the modified signal; and determining that the user performed the gesture comprises determining, by the second device, that the user performed the gesture.
</claims>
</document>
