<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/02,H04B7/0456,H04B7/06,H04L5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67841275
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CHANNEL STATE INFORMATION DETERMINATION USING DEMODULATION REFERENCE SIGNALS IN ADVANCED NETWORKS
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating channel state information determination using demodulation reference signals in advanced networks (e.g., 4G, 5G, and beyond) is provided herein. Operations of a system can comprise communicating first channel state information to a network device of a communication network. The first channel state information can be determined based on a received reference signal. The operations can also comprise determining second channel state information based on a scheduled demodulation reference signal received from the network device and comprising determining a precoding matrix index, rank information, and channel quality index information. Further, the operations can comprise communicating the second channel state information to the network device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: communicating first channel state information to a network device of a communication network, wherein the first channel state information is determined based on a received reference signal; determining second channel state information based on a scheduled demodulation reference signal received from the network device and comprising determining a precoding matrix index, rank information, and channel quality index information, wherein the determining the second channel state information and decoding a physical downlink shared channel is performed at a same time; and communicating the second channel state information to the network device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the decoding the physical downlink shared channel and the determining the second channel state information are performed in a same slot as determining a signal to interference plus noise ratio on an effective channel.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises estimating an effective channel, and wherein the operations further comprise using the effective channel as a new channel.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the communicating the second channel state information comprises communicating the channel quality index information, the precoding matrix index, and the rank information to the network device.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a first rank of the rank information is less than or equal to a second rank of a physical downlink shared channel transmission.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises using mutual information to determine a link quality metric.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises using capacity information to determine a link quality metric.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the communicating the second channel state information comprises communicating the second channel state information using a precoded channel.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the precoded channel is configured to operate according to a fifth generation wireless network communication standard.
10. A method, comprising: facilitating, by a mobile device of a communication network and to a network device of the communication network, a first transmission of first channel state information determined based on a received reference signal, the mobile device comprising a processor; determining, by the mobile device in temporal proximity with decoding a physical downlink shared channel, second channel state information based on a demodulation reference signal received from the network device; and facilitating, by the mobile device, a second transmission of the second channel state information to the network device, wherein the second channel state information comprises channel quality index information.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the facilitating the second transmission comprises facilitating the second transmission to the network device using a precoded channel.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises determining the second channel state information during a physical downlink shared channel decoding time.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: decoding, by the mobile device, the physical downlink shared channel; and determining, by the mobile device, a signal to interference plus noise ratio on an effective channel during a same slot as the decoding the physical downlink shared channel and the determining the second channel state information.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises using mutual information to determine a link quality metric.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises using capacity information to determine a link quality metric.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the determining the second channel state information comprises estimating an effective channel, and wherein the method further comprises using the effective channel as a new channel.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising: communicating the channel quality index information, a precoding matrix index, and rank information to the network device; and determining a first rank of the rank information is less than or equal to a second rank of a physical downlink shared channel transmission.
18. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a mobile device, first channel state information for a first reference signal transmitted with a first precoding matrix; determining a second precoding matrix based on a multiplication of previously used precoding matrixes including the first precoding matrix; and transmitting, to the mobile device, a second reference signal with the second precoding matrix.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from the mobile device, second channel state information based on the second reference signal; and determining a third precoding matrix as a function of the first precoding matrix and the second precoding matrix.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the transmitting comprises transmitting the second reference signal using a channel configured to operate according to a fifth generation wireless network communication standard.
</claims>
</document>
