<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-01-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOH, EUNYEE
RUIZ, CARLOS RIQUELME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53521682
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Knowledge discovery from belief networks
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed herein for making predictions with respect to how content consumers will interact with a digital asset. For example, in the context of website visitors browsing digital assets provided via a website, web traffic data can be collected and modeled using a belief network. The belief network may represent a probability distribution for a set of variables that define the web traffic data. Examples of such variables include browser type, browsing session duration, geographic location, visitor demographic characteristics, and a browsing outcome. Certain of the embodiments disclosed herein can be used to extract knowledge from the belief network, thereby allowing statistical inferences to be drawn with respect to how certain classes of website visitors will interact with the website. The influence of one or more first variables (for example, geographic location) can be quantified with respect to one or more second variables (for example, the successful result indicator).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for deriving information from a belief network that is used to model web traffic data, the method comprising: receiving, by a web traffic analysis server, web traffic data that characterizes interactions between a plurality of content consumers and a website, wherein a joint probability distribution defines how the web traffic data is distributed; providing a user interface configured to receive a selection of a given variable that is observed to take one or more given values in the received web traffic data; modeling the joint probability distribution according to a belief network; extracting a plurality of variable-value pairs from the belief network, each extracted variable-value pair comprising an influential variable and a corresponding influential value; determining a statistical influence that each of the extracted variable-value pairs has on a distribution of values taken by the given variable, wherein the statistical influence is quantified by an influence parameter associated with each of the extracted variable-value pairs; and causing display of a ranked list of the plurality of extracted variable-value pairs, the ranked list being ordered based on the influence parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the user interface is further configured to display a plurality of variables present in the received web traffic data; and the selection of the given variable is made from the displayed plurality of variables.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the web traffic data is collected by an administrator of the website with which the plurality of content consumers has interacted.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the influence parameter corresponds to a normalized difference between (a) a conditional distribution of the given variable given the influential variable and the corresponding influential value, and (b) a marginal distribution of the given variable.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the influence parameter is determined before the selection of the given variable is received.
6. A system for deriving information from a belief network that is used to model web traffic data, the system comprising: a visualization module configured to provide a graphical representation of a belief network that is used to model a distribution of web traffic data, the graphical representation including a plurality of nodes representing observed variables and a plurality of edges representing a correlation between connected nodes; a query interface configured to receive a selection of a given variable represented by one of the plurality of nodes; and a knowledge discovery module configured to identify a plurality of variable-value pairs from the belief network, each identified variable-value pair (a) comprising an influential variable and a corresponding influential value, and (b) having a statistical influence on a distribution of values taken by the given variable; wherein the visualization module is further configured to cause display of a ranked list of the plurality of identified variable-value pairs, the ranked list being ordered based on an influence parameter that quantifies the statistical influence that a particular identified variable-value pair has on the distribution of values taken by the given variable; and wherein the influence parameter is determined before the query interface receives the selection of the given variable.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein: the web traffic data characterizes interactions between a plurality of content consumers and a website; and the web traffic data is collected by an administrator of the website.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the influence parameter corresponds to a normalized difference between (a) a conditional distribution of the given variable given the influential variable and the corresponding influential value, and (b) a marginal distribution of the given variable.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the web traffic data is distributed according to a joint probability distribution that is modeled by the belief network.
10. The system of claim 6, further comprising a belief network generation module configured to receive the web traffic data, generate the belief network, and provide the generated belief network to the visualization module.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the selection of the given variable is a selection of a particular one of the plurality of nodes in the graphical representation generated by the visualization module.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, causes an information derivation process for a belief network to be carried out, the process comprising: providing a user interface configured to receive a selection of a given variable and a given value corresponding to the given variable, wherein the given variable is observed in web traffic data that is distributed according to a joint probability distribution; modeling the joint probability distribution according to a belief network; determining a primary profile for a website visitor based on the given variable and the given value, wherein the primary profile comprises a plurality of variable-value pairs that are extracted from the belief network based on a correlation to the given variable and the given value; and displaying a list of the plurality of variable-value pairs.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the correlation represents a most likely value for an extracted value that forms part of a particular one of the variable-value pairs, based on the received given variable and the given value.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, further comprising making a determination that the web traffic data has more than a threshold quantity of variable-value pairs before determining the primary profile for the website visitor.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the selection defines a plurality of given variables and a corresponding plurality of given values.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the list of the plurality of variable-value pairs is displayed in the same user interface from which the selection of the given variable was received.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, the process further comprising receiving the web traffic data at a web traffic analysis server, wherein the web traffic data characterizes interactions between a plurality of content consumers and a website.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein a particular one of the variable-value pairs comprises a variable extracted from the belief network and a range of values corresponding to the particular extracted variable.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the given variable corresponds to a success indicator based on a web browsing outcome and wherein the given value is a true/false flag.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, the process further comprising an alternative profile for the website visitor based on the given variable and the given value, wherein the alternative profile has a reduced probability as compared to the primary profile.
</claims>
</document>
