<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0488,G06T11/00,G06T11/60,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
SETHI, PUNEET
DALONZO, CHRISTIAN XAVIER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67059810
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for augmenting content
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer readable media can provide a plurality of colored inks for a marker to modify a content item displayed on a display screen of a computing system. A determination can be made that a user has selected a colored ink from the plurality of colored inks, wherein the plurality of colored inks includes a multi-colored ink. One or more lines can be drawn on the display screen based on a user input and the selected colored ink.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining, by a computing system, a content item selected by a user; providing, by the computing system, a plurality of colored inks for a marker to augment the content item, wherein the plurality of colored inks include a multi-colored ink; drawing, by the computing system, a continuous line on the content item based on a path of a finger of the user using the marker with the plurality of colored inks to generate an augmented content item, wherein the drawing the continuous line comprises drawing a plurality of colored circles defining the continuous line, the plurality of colored circles being superimposed such that a subsequent colored circle is placed on top of a previous colored circle with a predefined offset in pixels or units of length, wherein color output of the marker transitions from a first color to a second color of the plurality of colored inks once a first portion of the continuous line exceeds a first threshold length in pixels or units of length, and wherein the color output of the marker transitions from the second color to a third color of the plurality of colored inks once a second portion of the continuous line exceeds a second threshold length in pixels or units of length; and sharing, by the computing system, the augmented content item through a system.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the multi-colored ink is associated with a color palette, the color palette comprising a plurality of colors.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the color palette is associated with an order for the plurality of colors.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein user input is associated with a continuous path; and the multi-colored ink transitions between the plurality of colors based on a length of the continuous path.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of colored circles are superimposed in a fixed color sequence based on the color palette.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the color palette comprises the colors red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: providing an option for a selection of a thickness for the marker.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the selection of the thickness for the marker is associated with a diameter of the plurality of colored circles.
9. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one process, cause the system to perform a method comprising: obtaining a content item selected by a user; providing a plurality of colored inks for a marker to augment the content item, wherein the plurality of colored inks include a multi-colored ink; drawing a continuous line on the content item based on a path of a finger of the user using the marker with the plurality of colored inks to generate an augmented content item, wherein the drawing the continuous line comprises drawing a plurality of colored circles defining the continuous line, the plurality of colored circles being superimposed such that a subsequent colored circle is placed on top of a previous colored circle with a predefined offset in pixels or units of length, wherein color output of the marker transitions from a first color to a second color of the plurality of colored inks once a first portion of the continuous line exceeds a first threshold length in pixels or units of length, and wherein the color output of the marker transitions from the second color to a third color of the plurality of colored inks once a second portion of the continuous line exceeds a second threshold length in pixels or units of length; and sharing the augmented content item through a system.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the multi-colored ink is associated with by a color palette, the color palette comprising a plurality of colors.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the color palette is associated with an order for the plurality of colors.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein user input is associated with a continuous path; and the multi-colored ink transitions between the plurality of colors based on a length of the continuous path.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: obtaining a content item selected by a user; providing a plurality of colored inks for a marker to augment the content item, wherein the plurality of colored inks include a multi-colored ink; drawing a continuous line on the content item based on a path of a finger of the user using the marker with the plurality of colored inks to generate an augmented content item, wherein the drawing the continuous line comprises drawing a plurality of colored circles defining the continuous line, the plurality of colored circles being superimposed such that a subsequent colored circle is placed on top of a previous colored circle with a predefined offset in pixels or units of length, wherein color output of the marker transitions from a first color to a second color of the plurality of colored inks once a first portion of the continuous line exceeds a first threshold length in pixels or units of length, and wherein the color output of the marker transitions from the second color to a third color of the plurality of colored inks once a second portion of the continuous line exceeds a second threshold length in pixels or units of length; and sharing the augmented content item through a system.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the multi-colored ink is associated with by a color palette, the color palette comprising a plurality of colors.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the color palette is associated with an order for the plurality of colors.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein user input is associated with a continuous path; and the multi-colored ink transitions between the plurality of colors based on a length of the continuous path.
17. The system of claim 9, further comprising: providing an option for a selection of a thickness for the marker.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the selection of the thickness for the marker is associated with a diameter of the plurality of colored circles.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising: providing an option for a selection of a thickness for the marker.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the selection of the thickness for the marker is associated with a diameter of the plurality of colored circles.
</claims>
</document>
