<document>

<filing_date>
2015-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/738
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAO YU
GUO, XIAOYAN
DONG, ZHE
TAO, JUN
FANG CHUNSHENG
LI, SANPING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72045857
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Video analytics
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program product for performing video analytics on content, by collecting content (video data) from a plurality of sources, wherein the content pursues a streaming protocol; and performing at least one of storing the content in a local repository for downtime recording wherein on negative determination of a network connection, wherein servers directly coupled to a plurality of sources cache content until the network connection retains normalcy or performing analytics at least one of a real-time insight or an interactive insight or a batch insights on the content, and displaying to the user a resulting insight wherein the resulting insights are in a human readable form.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing video analytics on content, the method comprising collecting, by a video ingestion system, content comprising video data from a plurality of sources, wherein the content is provided in accordance with a streaming protocol, wherein the video ingestion system comprises a collector that collects the content, a processor, an ingester, and an ingestion manager that controls functioning of the collector, the processor and the ingester; storing the content in a local repository on a server for downtime recording in the event of a negative determination of a network connection, wherein the server is directly coupled to at least one of the plurality of sources, wherein the server is configured to cache content until the network connection retains normalcy; and performing, with logic associated with the processor, analytics including at least one of a real-time insight, an interactive insight or a batch insight on the content, and displaying to a user at least one resulting insight wherein the at least one resulting insight is in a human readable form, wherein the ingestion manager transmits the content from the collector to the processor for processing, and wherein the content is then transmitted to the ingester for further processing; wherein performing analytics includes detecting one or more anomalies in the content in at least one of an offline mode or an online mode by comparing the content with at least one of stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content, the one or more anomalies being represented in the at least one resulting insight displayed to the user; wherein performing analytics further includes comparing similar content, obtained through the other repositories via a worldwide network, with the content collected to assist in detecting the one or more anomalies; and wherein the at least one of stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content originates from a different source than the content in which the one or more anomalies is being detected.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: classifying and segregating the content collected from the plurality of sources into being at least one of a real time source or a batch source, wherein the segregation involves arranging the content collected based on a set of pre-defined rules or user defined rules.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprises: processing, using video analytics, the content collected based on a segregated category to obtain processed content.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the content collected originates from at least one of a real time streaming source, a file format source or a third party data source.
5. The method as claimed in claim 3, wherein the processing using video analytics is performed at least in one of a computer memory for real time analytics or in a file system repository for large scale big data analytics.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein performing analytics further comprises: performing a match of the similar content obtained from the other repositories with the content collected; and providing the user with a ranked list of results matching the content collected.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein performing analytics further comprises performing at least one of: detection, recognition, indexing, summarization, retrieval or matching biometrics for the content collected with a sample content; compressing the content collected; generating areas of interest in the content collected; and detecting relevant details with respect to the sample content.
8. A system for performing video analytics on content, the system comprising at least a memory and a processor, configured for: collecting, by a video ingestion system, content comprising video data from a plurality of sources, wherein the content is provided in accordance with a streaming protocol, wherein the video ingestion system comprises a collector that collects the content, a processor, an ingester, and an ingestion manager that controls functioning of the collector, the processor and the ingester; storing the content in a local repository on a server for downtime recording in the event of a negative determination of a network connection, wherein the server is directly coupled to at least one of the plurality of sources, wherein the server is configured to cache content until the network connection retains normalcy; and performing, with logic associated with the processor, analytics including at least one of a real-time insight, an interactive insight or a batch insight on the content, and displaying to a user at least one resulting insight wherein the at least one resulting insight is in a human readable form, wherein the ingestion manager transmits the content from the collector to the processor for processing, and wherein the content is then transmitted to the ingester for further processing; wherein performing analytics includes detecting one or more anomalies in the content in at least one of an offline mode or an online mode by comparing the content with at least one of stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content, the one or more anomalies being represented in the at least one resulting insight displayed to the user; wherein performing analytics further includes comparing similar content, obtained through the other repositories via a worldwide network, with the content collected to assist in detecting the one or more anomalies; and wherein the at least one of stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content originates from a different source than the content in which the one or more anomalies is being detected.
9. The system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: classifying and segregating the content collected from the plurality of sources into being at least one of a real time source or a batch source, wherein the segregation involves arranging the content collected based on a set of pre-defined rules or user defined rules.
10. The system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: processing using video analytics the content collected based on a segregated category to obtain processed content.
11. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the content collected originates from at least one of a real time streaming source or a file format source or a third party data source.
12. The system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processing using video analytics is performed at least in one of a computer memory for real time analytics or in a file system repository for large scale big data analytics.
13. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein performing analytics further comprises: performing a match of the similar content obtained from the other repositories with the content collected; and providing the user with a ranked list of results matching the content collected.
14. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein performing analytics further comprises: performing at least one of detection, recognition, indexing, summarization, retrieval or matching biometrics for the content collected with a sample content; compressing the content collected; generating areas of interest in the content collected; and detecting relevant details with respect to the sample content.
15. A computer program product for performing video analytics on content, the computer program product being tangibly stored in a non-transient computer readable medium and including machine executable instructions, the machine executable instructions, when being executed, configured to enable the execution of: collecting, by a video ingestion system, content comprising video data from a plurality of sources, wherein the content is provided in accordance with a streaming protocol, wherein the video ingestion system comprises a collector that collects the content, a processor, an ingester, and an ingestion manager that controls functioning of the collector, the processor and the ingester, wherein the content collected originates from at least one of a real time streaming source, a file format source or a third party data source; storing the content in a local repository on a server for downtime recording in the event of a negative determination of a network connection, wherein the server is directly coupled to at least one of the plurality of sources, wherein the server is configured to cache content until the network connection retains normalcy; and performing analytics including at least one of a real-time insight, an interactive insight or a batch insight on the content, and displaying to a user at least one resulting insight wherein the at least one resulting insight is in a human readable form, wherein the ingestion manager transmits the content from the collector to the processor for processing, and wherein the content is then transmitted to the ingester for further processing; wherein performing analytics includes detecting one or more anomalies in the content in at least one of an offline mode or an online mode by comparing the content with at least one of the stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content, the one or more anomalies being represented in the at least one resulting insight displayed to the user; wherein performing analytics further includes comparing similar content, obtained through the other repositories via a worldwide network, with the content collected to assist in detecting the one or more anomalies; and wherein the at least one of stored content in other repositories or real-time streaming content originates from a different source than the content in which the one or more anomalies is being detected.
16. The computer program product as claimed in claim 15, further comprising: classifying and segregating the content collected from the plurality of sources into being at least one of a real time source or a batch source, wherein the segregation involves arranging the content collected based on a set of pre-defined rules or user defined rules; and processing using video analytics the content collected based on the segregated category to obtain processed content; wherein the processing using video analytics is performed at least in one of a computer memory for real time analytics or in a file system repository for large scale big data analytics.
17. The computer program product as claimed in claim 15, wherein performing analytics further comprises: performing a match of the similar content obtained from the other repositories with the content collected; and providing the user with a ranked list of results matching the content collected.
18. The computer program product as claimed in claim 15, wherein performing at least one of detection, recognition, indexing, summarization, retrieval or matching biometrics for the content collected with a sample content; compressing the content collected; generating areas of interest in the content collected; and detecting relevant details with respect to the sample content.
19. The method as claimed in claim 1, including storing, by use of a compaction module, the content in the local repository after a predetermined period of time has passed subsequent to collecting the content.
20. The system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to coordinate a compaction module to store the content in the local repository after a predetermined period of time has passed subsequent to collecting the content.
21. The computer program product as claimed in claim 15, wherein the machine executable instructions are configured to coordinate a compaction module to store the content in the local repository after a predetermined period of time has passed subsequent to collecting the content.
</claims>
</document>
