<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANILOV, MIKHAIL
EGOROV, PAVEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71733674
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Doubly mapped redundant array of independent nodes for data storage
</title>

<abstract>
A doubly mapped redundant array of independent nodes (doubly mapped RAIN) for data storage is disclosed. A doubly mapped RAIN cluster can be allocated on top of one or more real data clusters. The real data cluster can be N nodes by M disks by L extents. A doubly mapped RAIN cluster can be N′ nodes by M′ disks by L′ extents, where N′ is less than, or equal to N. Mapping of data storage locations in a doubly mapped RAIN cluster can facilitate use of a real cluster at a different granularity than in either a conventionally administered real cluster or in a singly mapped RAIN. The topology of a doubly mapped RAIN can be constrained via rules related to correlation of real disks to mapped nodes, correlation of real extents to mapped nodes, correlation or real extents to mapped disks, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to receiving a real cluster storage system criterion, determining a first doubly mapped cluster schema; allocating storage space of the real cluster storage system as a first doubly mapped cluster based on the first doubly mapped cluster schema; altering, in response to a change in an amount of data to be stored according to the first doubly mapped cluster schema, the first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in an updated doubly mapped cluster schema and an updated first doubly mapped cluster having a different amount of storage space than the first doubly mapped cluster; and facilitating a data operation corresponding to a data storage location comprised in the real cluster storage system according to the updated doubly mapped cluster based on the updated doubly mapped cluster schema.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the real cluster storage system comprises a first number of real data storage clusters.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein a real data storage cluster of the first number of real data storage clusters comprises a second number of hardware data storage nodes, wherein a hardware data storage node of the second number of hardware storage nodes comprises a third number of data storage devices, wherein a storage device of the third number of hardware storage nodes comprises a fourth number of extents, wherein an extent of the fourth number of extents comprises the data storage location.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the allocating the storage space of the real cluster is based on an overall amount of storage of the real cluster storage system.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the allocating the storage space of the real cluster is based on an indication of an amount of data to be stored via the first doubly mapped cluster.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the allocating the storage space of the real cluster is based on an indication of an amount of data stored via a second doubly mapped cluster allocated from the real cluster storage system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to determining that a rule related to a constraint on disk allocation has been satisfied, preventing the allocating the storage space based on the first doubly mapped cluster schema.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to determining that a rule related to a constraint on extent allocation has been satisfied, preventing the allocating the storage space based on the first doubly mapped cluster schema.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the facilitating the data operation is based on information indicating a logical data storage location, in accord with the first doubly mapped cluster schema, being received in conjunction with receiving the data operation, and wherein the logical data storage location corresponds to the data storage location.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein a first size of the first doubly mapped cluster is a same size as a second size of a real cluster storage system.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein a first size of the first doubly mapped cluster is a different size than a second size of a second doubly mapped cluster.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: wherein the altering the first doubly mapped cluster schema comprises reallocating the storage space of the real cluster storage system based on the updated first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in the updated first doubly mapped cluster.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the altering the first doubly mapped cluster schema results in the updated first doubly mapped cluster having more storage space than the first doubly mapped cluster.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the altering the first doubly mapped cluster schema results in the updated first doubly mapped cluster having less storage space than the first doubly mapped cluster.
15. A method, comprising: in response to receiving real cluster storage system criteria, allocating, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, storage space of the real cluster storage system as a first doubly mapped cluster according to a determined first doubly mapped cluster schema based on the real cluster storage system criteria; updating, by the system, the first doubly mapped cluster schema in response to determining a change in an amount of data to be stored according to the first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in an updated doubly mapped cluster schema; reallocating, by the system, the storage space of the real cluster storage system based on the updated first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in an updated first doubly mapped cluster having a different amount of storage space than the first doubly mapped cluster; and causing, by the system, a data operation to occur in the allocated storage space of the real cluster storage system according to the updated doubly mapped cluster and based on the updated doubly mapped cluster schema.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the allocating the storage space is according to a determined first doubly mapped cluster schema based on: the real cluster storage system criteria, a request for an indicated amount of storage space, and a second doubly mapped cluster schema corresponding to a second doubly mapped cluster allocated from the storage space of the real cluster storage system.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the receiving the real cluster storage system criteria comprises receiving an indication of storage space corresponding to a first extent of a first storage device and a second extent of a second storage device, wherein the first storage device is located in a first geographic area, and wherein the second storage device is located in a second geographic area different than the first geographic area.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining a first doubly mapped cluster schema based on a first request for first storage space in a real cluster storage system; altering the first doubly mapped cluster schema until the first doubly mapped cluster schema is determined to satisfy a rule related to a doubly mapped cluster constraint; allocating the first storage space of the real cluster storage system as a first doubly mapped cluster, according to the first doubly mapped cluster schema, based on a criterion of the real cluster storage system; updating, in response to a change in an amount of data to be stored according to the first doubly mapped cluster schema, the first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in an updated doubly mapped cluster schema; reallocating the storage space of the real cluster storage system based on the updated first doubly mapped cluster schema, resulting in an updated first doubly mapped cluster having a different amount of storage space than the first doubly mapped cluster; and providing information enabling a data operation corresponding to the updated doubly mapped cluster to occur based on the updated doubly mapped cluster schema.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the doubly mapped cluster constraint indicates that disks of a first real node of the real cluster storage system are prohibited from use in more than one mapped node of a doubly mapped cluster.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the doubly mapped cluster constraint indicates that extents of a disk of a first real node of the real cluster storage system are prohibited from use in more than one mapped node of a doubly mapped cluster.
</claims>
</document>
