<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N23/201
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARTEMIEV, NIKOLAY
FRIEDMANN MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62712265
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
X-ray zoom lens for small angle x-ray scatterometry
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for controlling illumination beam spot size for Transmission, Small-Angle X-ray Scatterometry (T-SAXS) measurements of different sized metrology targets are described herein. An X-ray illumination optics subsystem includes one or more focusing optical elements with object and image planes at fixed locations and one or more illumination apertures or slits that independently control magnification and beam divergence. In a further aspect, the illumination source size and shape is controlled, along with magnification and beam divergence. In this manner, beam divergence and illumination spot size on a specimen are independently controlled, while maintaining constant illumination flux.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A metrology system comprising: an illumination subsystem including: an x-ray illumination source configured to generate x-ray radiation, the x-ray illumination source having a finite emission area; a focusing optical element having one or more reflective surfaces, wherein a location of an object plane and a location of an image plane associated with a reflection at any location on the one or more reflective surfaces are fixed; and a beam selection subsystem including one or more moveable slits or apertures located in a beam path between the x-ray illumination source and a specimen under measurement, wherein a position of the one or more moveable slits or apertures with respect to the x-ray radiation in a direction perpendicular to a central axis of the illumination subsystem controls an optical magnification of the illumination subsystem, and wherein an opening of the one or more moveable slits or apertures controls a divergence of an x-ray illumination beam reflected from the focusing optical element and selected from the x-ray radiation based on the position of the one or more slits or apertures, the x-ray illumination beam incident on the specimen under measurement; and an x-ray detector configured to detect an intensity associated with an amount of radiation scattered from the specimen under measurement in response to the incident x-ray illumination beam.
2. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein a shape and size of the finite emission area of the x-ray illumination source is adjustable.
3. The metrology system of claim 2, further comprising: a computing system configured to: communicate a first command signal to the beam selection subsystem that causes at least one actuator to move the one or more moveable slits or apertures with respect to the x-ray radiation in the direction perpendicular to the central axis of the illumination subsystem to a desired position that corresponds to a desired magnification of the illumination subsystem and to adjust the opening of the one or more slits or apertures to a desired opening that corresponds to a desired divergence of the incident x-ray illumination beam; and communicate a second command signal to the illumination source that causes the illumination source to change a size, shape, or both size and shape of the finite emission area.
4. The metrology system of claim 3, wherein the second command signal also causes the illumination source to adjust a power of an electron beam that generates the x-ray radiation.
5. The metrology system of claim 4, wherein the changing of the size, shape, or both size and shape of the finite emission area and the adjustment of the power of the electron beam maximizes the generated x-ray flux such that a maximum allowable area of the specimen illuminated by the incident x-ray illumination beam is used.
6. The metrology system of claim 3, wherein the desired size and shape of the area of the specimen illuminated by the incident x-ray illumination beam is circular or elliptical.
7. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the beam selection subsystem is located in an optical path of the x-ray illumination beam between the illumination source and the focusing optical element, an optical path of the x-ray illumination beam between the focusing optical element and the specimen, or a combination thereof.
8. The metrology system of claim 1, further comprising: a specimen positioning system configured to position the specimen under measurement with respect to the incident x-ray illumination beam at a plurality of angles of incidence, wherein the plurality of angles of incidence range between normal incidence to at least twenty degrees from normal incidence.
9. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the focusing optical element is elliptically shaped.
10. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein a distance between the illumination source and the one or more reflective surfaces is at least 50 millimeters.
11. The metrology system of claim 1, wherein the optical magnification of illumination subsystem ranges from at least 2 to 5 or greater.
12. An x-ray illumination subsystem, comprising: an x-ray illumination source configured to generate an amount of x-ray radiation, wherein a shape and size of a finite emission area of the x-ray illumination source is adjustable; a focusing optical element having one or more reflective surfaces, wherein a location of an object plane and a location of an image plane associated with a reflection at any location on one or more reflective surfaces are fixed; and a beam selection subsystem including one or more moveable slits or apertures located in a beam path between the x-ray illumination source and a specimen under measurement, wherein a position of the one or more moveable slits or apertures with respect to the x-ray radiation in a direction perpendicular to a central axis of the x-ray illumination subsystem controls an optical magnification of the illumination subsystem, and wherein an opening of the one or more moveable slits or apertures controls a divergence of an x-ray illumination beam reflected from the focusing optical element and selected from the reflected x-ray radiation based on the position of the one or more slits or apertures, the x-ray illumination beam incident on the specimen under measurement.
13. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 12, further comprising: a computing system configured to: communicate a first command signal to the beam selection subsystem that causes at least one actuator to move the one or more moveable slits or apertures with respect to the x-ray radiation in the direction perpendicular to the central axis of the x-ray illumination subsystem to a desired position that corresponds to a desired magnification of the illumination subsystem and to adjust the opening of the one or more slits or apertures to a desired opening that corresponds to a desired divergence of the incident x-ray illumination beam; and communicate a second command signal to the illumination source that causes the illumination source to change a size, shape, or both size and shape of the finite emission area.
14. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 13, wherein the second command signal also causes the illumination source to adjust a power of an electron beam that generates the x-ray radiation.
15. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 14, wherein the changing of the size, shape, or both size and shape of the finite emission area and the adjustment of the power of the electron beam maximizes the generated x-ray flux such that a maximum allowable area of the specimen illuminated by the incident x-ray illumination beam is used.
16. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 12, wherein the beam selection subsystem is located in an optical path of the x-ray illumination beam between the illumination source and the focusing optical element, an optical path of the x-ray illumination beam between the focusing optical element and the specimen, or a combination thereof.
17. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 12, wherein the focusing optical element is elliptically shaped.
18. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 12, wherein a distance between the illumination source and the one or more reflective surfaces is at least 50 millimeters.
19. The x-ray illumination subsystem of claim 12, wherein the optical magnification of illumination subsystem ranges from at least 2 to 5 or greater.
20. A method comprising: generating an amount of x-ray radiation over a finite emission area; reflecting at least a portion of the generated x-ray radiation from one or more reflective surfaces, wherein a location of an object plane and a location of an image plane associated with a reflection at any location on the one or more reflective surfaces are fixed; and adjusting a position of one or more moveable slits or apertures with respect to an x-ray optical system in a direction perpendicular to a central axis of the x-ray optical system to control an optical magnification of an image of the finite emission area; adjusting an opening of the one or more moveable slits or apertures to control a divergence of an x-ray illumination beam selected from the x-ray radiation based on the position of the one or more slits or apertures, the x-ray illumination beam incident on a specimen under measurement; detecting scattered x-ray radiation from the specimen under measurement in response to the incident x-ray illumination beam; and determining a value of a parameter of interest associated with a measurement target disposed on the specimen under measurement based on the detected x-ray radiation.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: adjusting a shape of the finite emission area, a size of the finite emission area, or both.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising: adjusting a power of an electron beam that generates the x-ray radiation.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the changing of the size, shape, or both size and shape of the finite emission area and the adjusting of the power of the electron beam maximizes the generated x-ray flux such that a maximum allowable area of the specimen illuminated by the incident x-ray illumination beam is used.
24. The method of claim 20, wherein the one or more reflective surfaces include a geometrical shape of any of an ellipsoid of revolution, a cylinder, an elliptical cylinder, a sphere, and a toroid.
25. The method of claim 20, further comprising: positioning the specimen under measurement with respect to the incident beam of x-ray radiation at a plurality of angles of incidence, wherein the plurality of angles of incidence range between normal incidence to at least twenty degrees from normal incidence.
</claims>
</document>
