<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/32,G06F1/3203,G09G3/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDELHAK, SHERINE
QIU, JUNHAI
BELAGAL MATH, SHRAVAN KUMAR
GHOSH, TAMOGHNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179225
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content adaptive display power savings systems and methods
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed to systems and methods for reducing display image power consumption while maintaining a consistent, objectively measurable, level of image distortion that comports with a display image quality metric. Raw image data is converted to an HSV format. "V" values are extracted from the HSV format raw image data and a histogram generates a plurality of "V" values. HSV format raw image data is provided to at least one layer of a trained CNN to extract a plurality of features. The plurality of "V" values and the plurality of features are provided to an AI circuit to generate a plurality of distortion class value pairs. Each of the distortion class value pairs is weighted based on proximity of display image distortion and the display image quality metric. The distortion class pair providing a display image distortion close to the display image quality metric is applied to the raw image data to generate the display image data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Content adaptive display power reduction circuitry, comprising: at least one input/output (I/O) interface to: receive raw image data; and receive at least one input that includes data indicative of an objective display image quality metric; artificial intelligence circuitry to generate an output that includes a plurality of distortion class value pairs determined using data obtained from the received raw image data; selection circuitry to select one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs, the selection based on a respective level of distortion introduced to the raw image data by application of each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs and the objective display image quality metric; and image transformation circuitry to apply the selected distortion class value pair to the received raw image data to generate display image data.
2. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 1, further including: Hue/Saturation/Value (HSV) circuitry to receive the raw image data and generate an HSV value set using the received raw image data.
3. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 2, further including: feature extraction circuitry to generate a first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data.
4. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 3 wherein the feature extraction circuitry includes a convolutional neural network (CNN).
5. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 4 wherein the convolutional neural network (CNN) includes at least one layer of a trained VGG16 convolutional neural network (CNN).
6. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 3, further including: value extraction circuitry to generate a second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set.
7. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 6 wherein the data obtained from the received raw image data provided to the artificial intelligence circuitry includes: the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data and the second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set.
8. The content adaptive display power reduction circuitry of claim 1, further including: weighting circuitry to: receive the plurality of distortion class value pairs from the artificial intelligence circuitry; and determine a respective weight factor associated with each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs to generate a plurality of weighted distortion class value pairs.
9. A content adaptive display power reduction method, comprising: receiving, via at least one input/output (I/O) interface, data representative of a raw image and data indicative of an objective display image quality metric; generating, by artificial intelligence circuitry, a plurality of distortion class value pairs determined using data obtained from the received raw image data; selecting, by selection circuitry, one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs, the selection based on a respective level of distortion introduced to the raw image data by application of each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs and the objective display image quality metric; and applying, by image transformation circuitry, the selected distortion class value pair to the received raw image data to generate display image data.
10. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 9, further including: generating, via Hue/Saturation/Value (HSV) circuitry, an HSV value set using the received raw image data.
11. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 10, further including: generating, via feature extraction circuitry, a first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data.
12. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 11 wherein generating the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data further includes: generating, via a convolutional neural network (CNN), the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data.
13. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 12 wherein generating the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data further includes: generating, via at least one layer of a trained VGG16 convolutional neural network (CNN), the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data.
14. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 11, further including: generating, via value extraction circuitry, a second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set.
15. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 14 wherein generating a plurality of distortion class value pairs using data obtained from the received raw image data further includes: generating a plurality of distortion class value pairs using: the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the received raw image data; and the second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set determined using the received raw image data.
16. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 9, further including: receiving, by weighting circuitry, each of the distortion class value pairs from the artificial intelligence circuitry; and determining, by the weighting circuitry, a weight factor for each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs to generate a plurality of weighted distortion class value pairs.
17. The content adaptive display power reduction method of claim 16 wherein selecting one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs further includes: selecting, by selection circuitry, one of the weighted distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of weighted distortion class value pairs.
18. A non-transitory storage device that includes instructions that, when executed by a content adaptive display power reduction control circuit, cause the control circuit to: cause artificial intelligence circuitry to generate a plurality of distortion class value pairs using raw image data; cause selection circuitry to select one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs, the selection based on a respective level of distortion introduced to the raw image data by application of each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs and an objective display image quality metric; and cause image transformation circuitry to apply the selected distortion class value pair to the raw image data to generate display image data.
19. The non-transitory storage device of claim 18 wherein the instructions further cause the control circuit to: cause Hue/Saturation/Value (HSV) circuitry to generate an HSV value set using the raw image data.
20. The non-transitory storage device of claim 19 wherein the instructions further cause the control circuit to: cause feature extraction circuitry to generate a first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data.
21. The non-transitory storage device of claim 20 wherein the instructions that cause the control circuit to cause the feature extraction circuitry to generate the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data further cause the control circuit to: cause a convolutional neural network (CNN) circuit to generate the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data.
22. The non-transitory storage device of claim 21 wherein the instructions that cause the control circuit to cause the feature extraction circuitry to generate the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data further cause the control circuit to: cause at least one layer of a trained VGG16 convolutional neural network (CNN) circuit to generate the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data.
23. The non-transitory storage device of claim 20 wherein the instructions further cause the control circuit to: cause value extraction circuitry to generate a second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set.
24. The non-transitory storage device of claim 23 wherein the instructions that cause the control circuit to cause the artificial intelligence circuitry to generate a plurality of distortion class value pairs using raw image data and data indicative of an allowable image distortion value further cause the control circuit to: cause the artificial intelligence circuitry to receive, via at least one input/output (I/O) interface, the first plurality of feature values based on features present in the raw image data; and the second plurality of feature values using "V" values included in the HSV value set.
25. The non-transitory storage device of claim 18 wherein the instructions further cause the control circuit to: cause weighting circuitry to determine a weight factor for each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs to generate a plurality of weighted distortion class value pairs.
26. The non-transitory storage device of claim 25 wherein the instructions that cause the control circuit to cause selection circuitry to select one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs further cause the control circuit to: cause selection circuitry to select one of the weighted distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of weighted distortion class value pairs.
27. A content adaptive display power reduction system, comprising: means for receiving data representative of a raw image and data indicative of an allowable image distortion value; means for generating a plurality of distortion class value pairs determined using data obtained from the received raw image data; means for selecting one of the distortion class value pairs included in the plurality of distortion class value pairs, the selection based on a respective level of distortion introduced to the received raw image data by application of each of the plurality of distortion class value pairs and an objective display image quality metric; and means for applying the selected distortion class value pair to the received raw image data to generate display image data.
</claims>
</document>
