<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S19/21,G01S19/29,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEDVINA, BRENT, M.
MILLER, ISAAC THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58407012
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic coherent integration
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer program products for determining extended coherent integration intervals based on information about user activity, dynamics and clock stability. Dynamically extending the coherent integration interval increases the signal-to-noise ratio during signal acquisition and tracking, thereby providing a benefit when antenna gain is poor, in weak signal conditions, and when being jammed, or when power needs to be conserved, compared to extending the coherent integration interval for a fixed amount of time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: detecting, based upon motion data received by a mobile device, movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, by a processor of the mobile device using the motion data, that the movement experienced by the mobile device affects coherent integration of a radio frequency (RF) signal received by the mobile device; determining, based upon the motion data, an activity type experienced by the mobile device from a plurality of activity types and a location of the mobile device on a human body from a plurality of possible locations during the movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, based upon the activity type and the location of the mobile device on the human body, an acceleration limit from a plurality of acceleration limits, each associated with one of the plurality of activity types and one of the plurality of possible locations of the mobile device on the human body; determining, based upon the determined acceleration limit, a coherent integration interval, wherein a duration of the coherent integration interval is configured to compensate for the movement experienced by the mobile device; and providing the coherent integration interval to an RF signal processor of the mobile device for performing the coherent integration of the RF signal during the coherent integration interval.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting movement experienced by the mobile device includes one or more sensors of the mobile device providing the motion data, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes shortening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the movement experienced by the mobile device exceeds a threshold value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting movement experienced by the mobile device includes one or more sensors of the mobile device providing the motion data, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes one of shortening and lengthening the coherent integration interval based on a magnitude of the movement experienced by the mobile device, and wherein a greater magnitude of the movement experienced by the mobile device corresponds to a shorter coherent integration interval.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting movement of the mobile device includes receiving readings from one or more sensors of the mobile device providing the motion data, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes one of: shortening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the activity type is a designated low-priority activity type; and lengthening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the activity type is a designated high-priority activity type.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the activity type includes one of walking, running, cycling, swimming, driving, and flying.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor of the mobile device, contextual data that includes data indicating a location area of the mobile device, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes one of: shortening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the data indicating a location of the mobile device is in an area designated as strong signal area; and lengthening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the data indicating a location of the mobile device is in an area designated as weak signal area.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes one of: shortening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the data indicating a location area of the mobile device is in an area where multipath effects are present; and lengthening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the data indicating a location area of the mobile device is in an area where multipath effects are absent.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes compensating for the movement experienced by the mobile device using the motion data received from at least one of a gyroscope, an accelerometer, a barometer, magnetometer, and a camera.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor of the mobile device, contextual data that includes one of a-priori and real-time information on one of radio jamming and interference, the information on the one of radio jamming and interference being provided by a radio frequency (RF) receiver of the mobile device, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes determining a length of the coherent integration interval sufficient to overcome the one of radio jamming and interference.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor of the mobile device, contextual data that includes an indication on whether position performance is given a higher priority than a priority for power conservation, and wherein adjusting the coherent integration interval includes maximizing the coherent integration interval upon determining that the indication on whether position performance is given a higher priority than a priority for power conservation is that the position performance is given the higher priority.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor of the mobile device, contextual data that includes a measurement of efficiency of an RF antenna, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes using extended coherent integration to improve post-correlation sensitivity upon determining that the measurement of efficiency fails to reach a threshold value.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor of the mobile device, contextual data that includes a measurement of oscillator stability, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval comprises designating a coherent time of the oscillator as the coherent integration interval.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the movement experienced by the mobile device that affects the coherent integration of the RF signal includes at least one of antenna efficiency, signal environment, jamming, interference, and power consumption requirement.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the RF signal includes a global navigation satellite system (GNSS) signal, and the RF signal processor includes a GNSS processor.
15. A mobile device comprising: a radio frequency (RF) signal processor including an interface to adjust coherent integration interval of processing RF signals; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the mobile device, cause the mobile device to perform operations comprising: detecting, based upon motion data received by a mobile device, movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, by a processor of the mobile device using the motion data, that the movement experienced by the mobile device affects coherent integration of a radio frequency (RF) signal received by the mobile device; determining, based upon the motion data, an activity type experienced by the mobile device from a plurality of activity types and a location of the mobile device on a human body from a plurality of possible locations during the movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, based upon the activity type and the location of the mobile device on the human body, an acceleration limit from a plurality of acceleration limits, each associated with one of the plurality of activity types and one of the plurality of possible locations of the mobile device on the human body; determining, based upon the determined acceleration limit, a coherent integration interval, wherein a duration of the coherent integration interval is configured to compensate for the movement experienced by the mobile device; and providing the coherent integration interval to an RF signal processor of the mobile device for performing the coherent integration of the RF signal during the coherent integration interval.
16. The mobile device of claim 15, wherein the RF signal processor is a global navigation satellite system (GNSS) processor having an interface for receiving the coherent integration interval.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors of a mobile device to perform operations comprising: detecting, based upon motion data received by a mobile device, movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, by a processor of the mobile device using the motion data, that the movement experienced by the mobile device affects coherent integration of a radio frequency (RF) signal received by the mobile device; determining, based upon the motion data, an activity type experienced by the mobile device from a plurality of activity types and a location of the mobile device on a human body from a plurality of possible locations during the movement experienced by the mobile device; determining, based upon the activity type and the location of the mobile device on the human body, an acceleration limit from a plurality of acceleration limits, each associated with one of the plurality of activity types and one of the plurality of possible locations of the mobile device on the human body; determining, based upon the determined acceleration limit, a coherent integration interval, wherein a duration of the coherent integration interval is configured to compensate for the movement experienced by the mobile device; and providing the coherent integration interval to an RF signal processor of the mobile device for performing the coherent integration of the RF signal during the coherent integration interval.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the detecting movement of the mobile device includes receiving readings from one or more sensors of the mobile device providing the motion data indicating the movement of the mobile device, and wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes shortening the coherent integration interval upon determining that the movement experienced by the mobile device exceeds a threshold value.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the detecting movement of the mobile device includes receiving readings from one or more sensors of the mobile device providing the motion data indicating the movement of the mobile device, wherein determining the coherent integration interval includes shortening or lengthening the coherent integration interval based on the movement experienced by the mobile device, and wherein a greater magnitude of the movement of the mobile device corresponds to a shorter coherent integration interval.
</claims>
</document>
