<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
LERNER, BORIS
RAIYANI, SUNIL RAMNIK
WAI, LAWRENCE LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predictive recommendation system using tiered feature data
</title>

<abstract>
In general, embodiments of the present invention provide systems, methods and computer readable media for a predictive recommendation system using predictive models derived from tiered feature data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating a combined feature for selecting a device rendered object to be transmitted to a network asset requester device, the system comprising a least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive DDO feature data representing the device rendered object, wherein the DDO feature data include data collected from a first set of impressions associated with a device rendered object permalink; determine whether the first set of impressions satisfies a threshold quantity of impressions; and in an instance in which the first set of impressions does not satisfy the threshold quantity, generate tiered DDO feature data representing the device rendered object, wherein the tiered DDO feature data were collected from a second set of impressions representing a tier group of device rendered objects including the device rendered object; generate historical feature data based on a predicted gender type associated with first name data received from the network asset requester device, wherein the historical feature data representing the tier group of device rendered objects related to the predicted gender type; integrate the tiered DDO feature data and the historical feature data; generate the combined feature using the historical feature data and one of the DDO feature data or the integrated tiered DDO feature data; select, based on the combined feature, a subset of promotions from a plurality of promotions, the subset of promotions to be recommended to a customer; and transmit the subset of promotions to a client device associated with the customer for display via the client device.
2. The system of claim 1, further caused to: retrieve known gender data from one or more user profiles associated with the first name data; calculate one or more gender ratios that are each correlated to respective gender types based on the known gender data retrieved from the one or more user profiles; compare each of the one or more gender ratios with a threshold ratio; in an instance in which a gender ratio is equal to or greater than the threshold ratio, determine the predicted gender type to be a gender type correlated to the gender ratio; and in an instance in which a gender ratio is smaller than the threshold ratio, determine the predicted gender type to be an unknown type.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the gender type is a male type, or a female type.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the threshold ratio is 0.85.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the predicted gender type is generated using a machine learning model.
6. The system of claim 1, further caused to: generate the combined feature using the historical feature data and the DDO feature data in an instance in which the first set of impressions satisfies the threshold quantity of impressions.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the historical feature data represents a tier of device rendered objects related to the predicted gender type.
8. The system of claim 1, further caused to: select device rendered objects to be transmitted to the network asset requester device based on the combined feature.
9. The system of claim 1, further caused to: integrate historical behavior data collected from a sample of network asset requester devices and recently collected behavior data to generate DDO feature data.
10. The system of claim 7, further caused to: generate the historical feature data based on one or more detected historical trends.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein selecting device rendered objects to be transmitted to the network asset requester device based on the combined feature comprises: receiving input data representing a request from the network asset requester device; receiving user profile describing attributes of the network asset requester device; receiving, from a device rendered object inventory, device rendered object data describing attributes of a set of available device rendered object for the network asset requester device; calculating, based on at least one relevance model, a contextual relevance score for each of the set of device rendered object using the input data, the device rendered object data, and the user profile; and ranking the set of available device rendered object based on their respective contextual relevance scores.
12. An apparatus, operable on a distributed computing system, to generate a combined feature for selecting a device rendered object to be transmitted to a network asset requester device, the apparatus comprising: a relevance engine, wherein the relevance engine comprises an input/output module and the relevance engine is stored in a memory such that when executed by a processor the relevance engine is configured to receive, via the input/output module, one or more network asset requests and output one or more ranked available promotions in response to the network asset request, the ranked available device rendered objects generated in part by at least a predictive model builder and a DDO feature data integrator; wherein the relevance engine is further configured to receive first name data from the network asset requester device; wherein the predictive model builder is stored in the memory such that when executed by the processor the predictive model builder is configured to integrate DDO feature data, received via a network interface representing a device rendered object permalink, and historical feature data generated based on a predicted gender type associated with the first name data, the historical feature data representing the tier group of device rendered objects related to the predicted gender type, wherein the DDO feature data include data collected from a first set of impressions associated with the device rendered object permalink; wherein the DDO feature data integrator is stored in the memory such that when executed by the processor the DDO feature data integrator is configured to determine that the first set of impressions satisfies a threshold quantity of impressions and to generate a combined feature using the integrated DDO feature data and the historical feature data; and wherein the relevance engine is configured to select, based on the combined feature, a subset of promotions from a plurality of promotions, the subset of promotions to be recommended to a customer; and a communications module configured to transmit the subset of promotions to a client device associated with the customer for display via the client device.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the DDO feature data integrator is further configured to determine that the first set of impressions does not satisfy the threshold quantity of impressions.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the predictive model builder is further configured to: generate tiered DDO feature data representing the device rendered object, wherein the tiered DDO feature data were collected from a second set of impressions representing a tier group of device rendered objects including the device rendered object, integrate the tiered DDO feature data and the historical feature data, and generate a combined feature using the integrated tiered DDO feature data and the historical feature data.
15. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the predictive model builder is further configured to integrate historical behavior data collected from a sample of network asset requester devices and recently collected behavior data to generate the DDO feature data.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the predictive model builder is further configured to: retrieve, from the memory, known gender data from one or more user profiles associated with the first name data; calculate, using the processor, one or more gender ratios that are each correlated to respective gender types based on the known gender data retrieved from the one or more user profiles associated with the first name data; compare, using the processor, each of the one or more gender ratios that are each correlated to the respective gender types with a threshold ratio; and in an instance in which a gender ratio is larger than or equal to the threshold ratio, determine, using the processor, the predicted gender type to be a gender type correlated to the gender ratio; and in an instance in which a gender ratio is smaller than the threshold ratio, determine, using the processor, the predicted gender type to be an unknown type.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the gender type is a male type, or a female type.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the threshold ratio is 0.85.
19. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the predicted gender type is generated using machine learning.
20. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the predictive model builder is further configured to generate the historical feature data based on one or more detected historical trends derived from one or more historical databases.
21. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the relevance engine is further configured to select device rendered objects to be recommended to a network asset requester device based on the combined feature.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein selecting device rendered objects to be transmitted to the network asset requester device based on the combined feature comprises: receiving input data representing a request from the network asset requester device; receiving user profile describing attributes of the network asset requester device; receiving, from a device rendered object inventory, device rendered object data describing attributes of a set of available device rendered object for the network asset requester device; calculating, based on at least one relevance model, a contextual relevance score for each of the set of device rendered objects using the input data, the device rendered object data, and the user profile; and ranking the set of available device rendered objects based on their respective contextual relevance scores.
</claims>
</document>
