<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04L29/08,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
URBAN AIRSHIP
</assignee>

<inventors>
JOHNSON, GARY TODD
ONNEN, ERIK A.
PUTNAM, NATHAN A.
REVELL, DAVE K.
TOWLE, JEFFREY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56100746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Push reporting
</title>

<abstract>
Push reporting is disclosed. A first payload comprising feature reporting information and meta information is received from a first device at a first time. A second payload comprising feature reporting information and meta information is received from a second device at a second time. At respective third and fourth times, respective third and fourth payloads are received from the first and second devices, respectively. The third and fourth payloads include additional feature reporting information and meta information. The processing of the information received from the first and second devices is coordinated. A request for information is received. Metrics are provided as output. The metrics are based at least in part on the processing of the information received from the first and second devices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising stored instructions, the stored instructions when executed cause the processor to: receive, by a push notification platform from a digital publisher, configuration information describing configurations of a set of target end user devices on which a push notification is intended to be delivered, receive, by the push notification platform from the digital publisher, content information about the push notification to be delivered to the set of target end user devices, generate, by the push notification platform based on the received configuration information and the received content information about the push notification, instructions for simulating a graphical representation of the push notification as projected to be rendered on the set of target end user devices, and enable display, on a computing device of the digital publisher, of the simulated graphical representation of the push notification as projected to be rendered on the set of target end user devices, by sending the generated instructions to the computing device of the digital publisher.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the configuration information includes at least one of a make, model, operating system, application version, and library version associated with the set of target end user devices.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the stored instructions further comprise instructions that when executed cause the processor to generate a push notification.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stored instructions further comprise instructions that when executed cause the processor to: deliver the push notification to one or more end user devices; receive from the one or more end user devices feature reporting information associated with the push notification delivered; and normalize the received feature reporting information.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the stored instructions to normalize the received feature reporting information further comprise instructions that when executed causes the processor to correct errors in the received feature reporting information.
6. A method for simulating graphical representation of a push notification as rendered on a client device, the method comprising: receiving, by a push notification platform from a digital publisher, configuration information describing configurations of a set of target end user devices on which a push notification is intended to be delivered; receiving, by the push notification platform from the digital publisher, content information about the push notification to be delivered to the set of target end user devices; generating, by the push notification platform based on the received configuration information and the received content information about the push notification, a simulation of a graphical representation of the push notification as projected to be rendered on the set of target end user devices; and enabling display, on a computing device of the digital publisher, of the simulated graphical representation of the push notification as projected to be rendered on the set of target end user devices, by sending the generated instructions to the computing device of the digital publisher.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the configuration information includes at least one of a make, model, operating system, application version, and library version associated with the set of target end user devices.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprises generating a push notification.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: delivering the push notification to one or more end user devices; receiving from the one or more end user devices feature reporting information associated with the push notification delivered; and normalizing the received feature reporting information.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein normalizing the received feature reporting information further comprise correcting errors in the received feature reporting information.
11. A system, comprising: a push notification platform configured to: receive, from a digital publisher, configuration information describing configurations of a set of target end user devices on which a push notification is intended to be delivered, receive, from the digital publisher, content information about the push notification to be delivered to the set of target end user devices, generate, based on the received configuration information and the received content information about the push notification, instructions for simulating a graphical representation of the push notification as rendered on the set of target end user devices, and send the generated instructions to a computing device of the digital publisher; a graphical interface in communication with the push notification platform and operating at the computing device of the digital publisher, the graphical interface configured to display, based on the instructions for simulating the graphical representation, the simulated graphical representation of the push notification as rendered on the set of target end user devices.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the configuration information includes at least one of a make, model, operating system, application version, and library version associated with the set of target end user devices.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the push notification platform is further configured to generate a push notification.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the push notification platform is further configured to: delivering the push notification to one or more end user devices; receiving from the one or more end user devices feature reporting information associated with the push notification delivered; and normalizing the received feature reporting information.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein normalizing the received feature reporting information further comprise correcting errors in the received feature reporting information.
</claims>
</document>
