<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06T19/00,H04B7/26,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CURIOUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, ANTHONY MARK
JONES, JESSICA A. F.
YOUNG BRUCE A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422713
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hybrid reality system including beacons
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a head-mounted display (HMD) and one or more beacon devices. A beacon device includes a receiver to receive a first type of energy, a conversion apparatus to convert the first type of energy into a second type of energy, and a transmitter to transmit the second type of energy to the HMD. The HMD includes a display, a structure adapted to position the display in a field-of-view of the user, a sensor to receive the second type of energy from the beacon device, and a processor. The processor is programmed to receive the second type of energy from the beacon device located in a real-world environment, determine a position of the beacon device based on the second type of energy received from the beacon device, and provide a stimulus to a user on the HMD based on the position of the beacon device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising a head-mounted display (HMD) and two or more beacon devices; each beacon device of the two or more beacon devices comprising phosphor located on respective exteriors of the two or more beacon devices, the phosphor formulated to receive ultraviolet light energy, convert the ultraviolet light energy to visible light, and emit the visible light in response; the HMD comprising a display, a structure coupled to the display and adapted to position the display in a field-of-view (FOV) of a user, an ultraviolet illuminator positioned to transmit ultraviolet light into an area around the HMD, a visible light camera configured to capture an image that includes at least a portion of the area around the HMD, and a processor coupled to the display, the processor programmed to: receive the image from the visible light camera; determine positions of the two or more beacon devices based on the visible light emitted by the phosphor of the two or more beacon devices shown in the image, the visible light emitted in response to the receiving of the ultraviolet light from the ultraviolet illuminator; establish a path for the user to follow based on the positions of the two or more beacon devices; and provide a stimulus to the user on the display, the stimulus comprising a visible cue that indicates the path.
2. The system of claim 1, the positions of the two or more beacon devices comprising respective physical locations in the real-world environment.
3. The system of claim 1, the positions of the two or more beacon devices comprising respective virtual locations in the FOV of the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulus is provided continuously by the HMD.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the stimulus is provided intermittently by the HMD.
6. The system of claim 1, the visible cue comprising an area in the field of view of the user having a brightness or color significantly different than a background.
7. The system of claim 1, the visible cue comprising virtual light beams projecting from the position of the two or more beacon devices.
8. The system of claim 1, the stimulus further comprising enhanced visual information for the user.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the visible cue is modulated based on proximity.
10. The system of claim 8, the enhanced visual information for the user comprising a window showing at least one object hidden from view of the user.
11. The system of claim 8, the enhanced visual information for the user comprising textual information.
12. The system of claim 1, the stimulus comprising the visible cue overlaid on the image.
13. The system of claim 1, the HMD further comprising a transducer configured to deliver a second stimulus to the user, the processor further programmed to: provide the the second stimulus to the user, in addition to the visible cue, using the transducer, the second stimulus based on the position of the two or more beacon devices, the path, and a location of the user.
14. The system of claim 13, the second stimulus comprising a haptic cue provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises at least one haptic pad.
15. The system of claim 13, the second stimulus comprising a directional haptic stimulus provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises at least two haptic pads.
16. The system of claim 13, the second stimulus comprising a sound provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises a speaker.
17. The system of claim 13, the second stimulus comprising a 3D audio cue provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises two or more speakers.
18. A head-mounted display (HMD) comprising: a display; a structure coupled to the display and adapted to position the display in a field-of-view (FOV) of a user; an ultraviolet illuminator positioned to transmit ultraviolet light into an area around the HMD; a visible light camera configured to capture an image that includes at least a portion of the area around the HMD; and a processor coupled to the display, the processor programmed to: turn on the ultraviolet illuminator to provide ultraviolet light energy to two or more beacon devices located within the FOV of the user, the two or more beacon devices comprising phosphor, located on respective exteriors of the two or more beacon devices, formulated to receive the ultraviolet light energy, convert the ultraviolet light energy to visible light, and emit the visible light in response; receive the image from the visible light camera; determine positions of the two or more beacon devices based on the visible light emitted by the phosphor of the two or more beacon devices shown in the image; establishing a path for the user to follow based on the positions of the two or more beacon devices; and provide a visible cue to the user on the display that indicates the path.
19. The HMD of claim 18, the stimulus further comprising a sound provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises a speaker.
20. The HMD of claim 18, further comprising a transducer configured to deliver a stimulus to the user, the processor further programmed to: determine whether the user is following the path; and provide the stimulus to the user using the transducer in response to a determination that the user is not following the path.
21. The HMD of claim 20, the stimulus further comprising a haptic cue provided through the transducer, wherein the transducer comprises at least one haptic pad.
22. A method for providing directional guidance to a user using a head-mounted display (HMD), the method comprising: activating an ultraviolet illuminator on the HMD to provide ultraviolet light energy to two or more beacon devices located within a field-of-view (FOV) of the user, the two or more beacon devices comprising phosphor, located on respective exteriors of the two or more beacon devices, formulated to receive the ultraviolet light energy, convert the ultraviolet light energy to visible light, and emit the visible light in response; receiving an image from a visible light camera of the HMD; determining positions of the two or more beacon devices based on the visible light emitted by the phosphor of the two or more beacon devices shown in the image; establishing a path for the user to follow based on the positions of the two or more beacon devices; and providing a visible cue to the user on a display of the HMD that indicates the path.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising: determining whether the user is following the path; and providing a stimulus to the user using a transducer of the HMD in response to a determination that the user is not following the path, wherein the transducer is different than the display.
</claims>
</document>
