<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/332,G06F16/35,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAYA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SKIBA DAVID
KLEMM, REINHARD
MATULA, VALENTINE C
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57017215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for compiling and dynamically updating a collection of frequently asked questions
</title>

<abstract>
At least one social media channel includes a plurality of user messages, which are accessible via a communication network. At least some of the stored messages are retrieved from the at least one social media channel via the communication network, and a collection of frequently asked questions (FAQ) is generated or updated by analyzing the retrieved messages to form a plurality of topical issue clusters. Each topical issue cluster is associated with at least one topic parameter from among a plurality of topic parameters, each topic parameter relates to at least one of use, installation or maintenance of a product or service, and each topical issue cluster includes at least one issue identified by a community of users and at least one resolution of the issue identified by the community of users. The generated or updated FAQ is uploaded to a storage location accessible to the community of users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method comprising: receiving a selection of at least one social media channel, wherein each social media channel includes a plurality of messages originated by a community of users and stored on a server, and wherein the plurality of messages being accessible via a communication network; retrieving at least some of the plurality of stored messages from the at least one social media channel via the communication network, wherein the retrieved messages are identified for retrieval as messages having one or more of at least one catchword or at least one catchphrase with each catchword and catchphrase associated with a topic of a plurality of topics; analyzing the retrieved messages to form a plurality of topical issue clusters; at least one of generating or updating a collection of frequently asked questions (FAQ), including selecting, for inclusion in the FAQ collection, a first subset of responses to an issue identified by at least one user of the community of users based on feedback expressing user sentiment of the at least one user submitted via the at least one social media channel, wherein each topical issue cluster is associated with at least one topic of the plurality of topics, wherein each topic of the plurality of topics relates to at least one of use, installation or maintenance of a product or service, and wherein each topical issue cluster includes at least one issue identified by the community of users and at least one resolution of the issue identified by the community of users; and transmitting the generated or updated FAQ to a storage location accessible to the community of users.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating or updating the FAQ collection includes performing statistical analysis to select a subset of topical issues identified by the community of users at a higher frequency than other topical issues identified by the community of users.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the subset is selected based on one of a percentage or a numerical threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving the at least one catchword or the at least one catchphrase.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating or updating the FAQ collection further includes selecting a second subset of responses for exclusion from the FAQ collection according to the feedback.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating or updating the FAQ collection includes transmitting an alert to at least one validating agent for at least one of approval or editing of the first subset of responses.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating or updating the FAQ collection includes transmitting an alert to at least one validating agent to initiate review of at least one of the topical issue clusters.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating or updating the FAQ collection includes transmitting an alert to at least one member of the community of users to initiate at least one of review or editing of a question component, a response component, or both the question component and the response component of at least one of the topical issue clusters.
9. The method of claim 8, further including selecting, as at least one user to review a topical issue cluster, a user who identified an issue applicable to the topic issue cluster.
10. The method of claim 8, further including selecting, as at least one user to review a topical issue cluster, a user who identified a resolution applicable to the topical issue cluster.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the retrieved messages to form of the plurality of topical issue clusters comprises partitioning social media channel messages into homogenous groups based on at least one clustering algorithm from among a partitioning clustering algorithm, hierarchical clustering algorithm, distance-based clustering algorithm and density-based clustering algorithm.
12. An apparatus comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a memory having stored therein machine executable instructions, that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: receive a selection of at least one social media channel, wherein each social media channel includes a plurality of messages originated by a community of users and stored on a server, and wherein the plurality of messages being accessible via a communication network; retrieve at least some of the stored messages from the at least one social media channel via the communication network, wherein the retrieved messages are identified for retrieval from the stored messages as messages having one or more of at least one catchword or at least one catchphrase with each catchword and catchphrase associated with a topic of a plurality of topics; analyze the retrieved messages to form a plurality of topical issue clusters; at least one of generate or update a collection of frequently asked questions (FAQ), including selecting, for inclusion in the FAQ collection, a first subset of responses to an issue identified by at least one user of the community of users based on feedback expressing user sentiment of the at least one user and submitted via the at least one social media channel, wherein: each topical issue cluster is associated with at least one topic of the plurality of topics, each topic of the plurality of topics relates to at least one of use, installation or maintenance of a product or service, and each topical issue cluster includes at least one issue identified by the community of users and at least one resolution of the issue identified by the community of users; and transmit the generated or updated FAQ to a storage location accessible to the community of users.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to select a second subset of responses for exclusion from the FAQ collection according to the feedback.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to transmit an alert to at least one of a validating agent or a member of the community of users to initiate review of at least one of the topical issue clusters.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the instructions are executable by the processor to select, for initiating review of the at least one topical issue cluster, a user who identified an issue applicable to the at least one topic issue cluster or who identified a resolution applicable to the at least one topical issue cluster.
</claims>
</document>
