<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/10,G06K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CODE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEI MING
LEE, JASON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425510
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis and decode module for a barcode reading system
</title>

<abstract>
An analysis and decode module is described. A barcode reading system may include an image sensor system package and a separate image decoding system. The image sensor system package may provide input to the image decoding system through an interface. The input may include a captured image, image capture settings, and an operation list. The image decoding system, using the analysis and decode module, may perform one or more operations identified in the operation list on the capture image. The image decoding system may then output information to the image sensor system package using the interface. The output may indicate whether the image decoding system was able to decode a barcode and how the image sensor system package may modify the image capture settings to produce an image more suitable for decoding. The image sensor system package may then determine new image capture settings for capturing a new image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A barcode reading system, comprising: an image capture system comprising an image sensor system package, wherein the image sensor system package includes a control module, wherein the image capture system is configured to capture a first image using a first set of capture settings and a second image using a second set of capture settings, and wherein the control module is configured to determine the second set of capture settings for use by the image capture system in capturing the second image; an interface; and an image decoding system configured to receive the first image and the first set of capture settings from the image sensor system package through the interface and to output a first result status and a first set of data to the image sensor system package through the interface, wherein the control module is configured to receive the first result status, the first set of data, and the first set of capture settings and determine the second set of capture settings based at least in part on one or more of the first result status, the first set of data, and the first set of capture settings.
2. The barcode reading system of claim 1, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to receive a first operation list and wherein the image decoding system includes analysis and decode blocks configured to perform analysis and decode features and wherein the first operation list identifies one or more of the analysis and decode features.
3. The barcode reading system of claim 2, wherein the analysis and decode blocks include one or more of an Automatic Gain Control feature, a quality feature, a cellphone detection feature, a motion detection feature, and a decode feature.
4. The barcode reading system of claim 3, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to, after receiving the first image: select a first analysis and decode feature identified in the first operation list; and process the first image using the first analysis and decode feature to determine a first block output.
5. The barcode reading system of claim 4, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to determine whether the first operation list identifies another analysis and decode feature and, if the first operation list does not identify another analysis and decode feature, determine the first result status and the first set of data based on the first block output.
6. The barcode reading system of claim 5, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to receive a first set of decode parameters and, if the first operation list identifies another analysis and decode feature: determine a new set of decode parameters based at least in part on the first block output; select a second analysis and decode feature from the first operation list; and process the first image using the second analysis and decode feature to determine a second block output.
7. The barcode reading system of claim 1, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to receive a first set of decode parameters and a first operation list and the control module is further configured to determine a second set of decode parameters and a second operation list based at least in part on one or more of the first result status, the first set of data, and the first set of capture settings.
8. The barcode reading system of claim 1, wherein the first result status indicates one or more of decoded with data, nothing found, located barcode, cellphone detected, or motion detected and the first set of data includes one or more of AGC data and quality data.
9. The barcode reading system of claim 8, wherein the image decoding system is further configured to receive the second image and the second set of capture settings and output to the image sensor system package, through the interface, a second result status and a second set of data.
10. The barcode reading system of claim 9 further configured to, if the second result status indicates decoded with data, output decoded data for the second image.
11. The barcode reading system of claim 10, wherein the control module is further configured to, if the second result status does not indicate decoded with data, determine a third set of capture settings for use in capturing a third image based at least in part on one or more of the second result status, the second set of data, and the second set of capture settings.
12. A computer-readable medium comprising instructions that are executable by one or more processors to cause a computing system to: receive, by an image decoding system, a first image and a first set of input settings; determine, by the image decoding system, a first result status and a first set of data using the first image and the first set of input settings; determine that the first result status does not indicate decoded with data; and determine, by an image sensor system package, a second set of input settings based at least in part on the first result status, the first set of data, and the first set of input settings.
13. The computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the first set of input settings include a first set of image capture settings used for capturing the first image, a first set of decode parameters, and a first operation list.
14. The computer-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the first operation list identifies one or more analysis and decode features and determining the first result status and the first set of data includes analyzing the first image using a first analysis and decode feature identified in the first operation list.
15. The computer-readable medium of claim 14 further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: receive, by the image decoding system, a second image and the second set of input settings; and determine, by the image decoding system, a second result status and a second set of data using the second image and the second set of input settings.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: determine, by the image sensor system package, that the second result status indicates decoded with data; and output decoded data for the second image.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15 further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: determine that the second result status does not indicate decoded with data; and determine, by the image sensor system package, a third set of input settings based at least in part on the second result status, the second set of data, and the second set of input settings.
18. A computer-readable medium comprising instructions that are executable by one or more processors to cause a computing system to: receive an image of a barcode, capture settings for the image of the barcode, decode parameters, and an operation list, wherein the operation list identifies two or more analysis and decode features; for each analysis and decode feature identified in the operation list that is not skipped: process the image using the analysis and decode feature to determine a feature result status and a set of feature data; and determine whether to modify the decode parameters based on the feature result status and the set of feature data, wherein modifying the decode parameters includes changing the decode parameters and skipping a decode feature; and output a result status and a set of data for use in determining a new set of capture settings.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18 further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: determine whether to add additional analysis and decode features to the operation list based on the capture settings and the operation list; and for each analysis and decode feature identified in the operation list, after processing the image using the analysis and decode feature, remove the analysis and decode feature from the operation list.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 18 further comprising additional instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the computing system to: for each analysis and decode feature identified in the operation list, determine whether to skip the analysis and decode feature based on the capture settings.
</claims>
</document>
