<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/438,G06F16/638,G06F3/048,G06F3/0481,G06T19/00,H04L12/58,H04N21/431,H04N21/482,H04N5/445
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREOU, JACOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67106347
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content collection navigation queue
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for communicating and displaying collections of images according to a user-selected queue are described. In some example embodiments, a system aggregates content items organized into collections for display to a user on a device. The system receives a selection from the user of a desired order of collection display, based on the user selecting queue request elements associated with the content collections. In response to receiving a playlist request from the user, the system causes display of the content collections in the order selected by the user. In some example embodiments, the system automatically queues one or more pieces of autoforward content to automatically play after the completion of the queued content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for network communication of image-based content collections, the method comprising: communicating, from a server computer system to a first mobile device, interface information for each content collection of a first plurality of content collections, the interface information including a first selectable queue request element associated with a first content collection within the first plurality of content collections, a second selectable queue request element associated with a second content collection within the first plurality of content collections, and a queue play element; receiving, from the first mobile device, a first story queue request associated with the first selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, from the first mobile device, a second story queue request associated with the second selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, from the first mobile device, a playlist request associated with the queue play element within the interface information; communicating one or more content messages from the first content collection to the first mobile device for display on the first mobile device in response to the playlist request; and automatically communicating one or more content messages from the second content collection to the first mobile device for automatic display on the first mobile device, wherein the first content collection comprises a first set of content from a first set of content messages of the plurality of content messages, wherein the first set of content messages are received from a second mobile device associated with a second user account of the server computer system, wherein the first mobile device is associated with a first user account of the server computer system, wherein the first mobile device and the second mobile device are associated with the server computer system, and wherein the first set of content messages comprises all content messages received at the server computer system from the second mobile device within a story threshold time prior to receipt of the first story queue request at the server computer system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the server computer system makes the first content collection selectable for the first user account via the first story queue request based on an association between the first user account and the second user account.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the story threshold time is 24 hours.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of content collections comprises content collections from a plurality of friend accounts associated with the first mobile device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first mobile device, a live autoforward communication associated with completion of an end presentation of a final content message from the second content collection at the first mobile device; and automatically communicating a first live content collection from the server computer system to the first mobile device for automatic display on the first mobile device in response to receipt of the live autoforward communication.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising communicating one or more advertising elements for presentation on the first mobile device following presentation of a trigger content collection of the first plurality of content collections or the first live content collection, wherein the trigger content collection is selected from content collections of the first plurality of content collections or the first live content collection based on an advertising threshold.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, at the server computer system, a second plurality of content messages; receiving, at the server computer system via a curation tool, selection of live media content from the second plurality of content messages for the first live content collection; and periodically updating the live media content of the first live content collection using the curation tool.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating one or more advertising elements for presentation on the first mobile device prior to automatic display of the second content collection.
9. A system comprising: at least one processor of a machine; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: communicating, from a server computer system comprising the memory and the at least one processor to a first mobile device, interface information for each content collection of a first plurality of content collections, the interface information including a first selectable queue request element associated with a first content collection within the first plurality of content collections, a second selectable queue request element associated with a second content collection within the first plurality of content collections, and a queue play element; receiving, at the server computer system from the first mobile device, a first story queue request associated with the first selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, at the server computer system from the first mobile device, a second story queue request associated with the second selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, at the server computer system from the first mobile device, a playlist request associated with the queue play element within the interface information; communicating, by the server computer system, one or more content messages from the first content collection to the first mobile device for display on the first mobile device in response to the playlist request; automatically communicating, by the server computer system, one or more content messages from the second content collection to the first mobile device for automatic display on the first mobile device; receiving, from the first mobile device, a live autoforward communication associated with completion of an end presentation of a final content message from the second content collection at the first mobile device; and automatically communicating a first live content collection from the server computer system to the first mobile device for automatic display on the first mobile device in response to receipt of the live autoforward communication.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first content collection comprises a first set of content from a first set of content messages of the plurality of content messages, wherein the first set of content messages are received from a second mobile device associated with a second user account of the server computer system; wherein the first mobile device is associated with a first user account of the server computer system; and wherein the first mobile device and the second mobile device are associated with the server computer system.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the server computer system makes the first content collection selectable for the first user account via the first story queue request based on an association between the first user account and the second user account.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the first set of content messages comprises all content messages received at the server computer system from the second mobile device within a story threshold time prior to receipt of the first story queue request at the server computer system.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the story threshold time is 24 hours.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the first plurality of content collections comprises content collections from a plurality of friend accounts associated with the first mobile device.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise communicating one or more advertising elements for presentation on the first mobile device prior to automatic display of the second content collection.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise communicating one or more advertising elements for presentation on the first mobile device following presentation of a trigger content collection of the first plurality of content collections or the first live content collection, wherein the trigger content collection is selected from content collections of the first plurality of content per QS collections or the first live content collection based on an advertising threshold.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: communicating, from a server computer system to a first mobile device, interface information for each content collection of a first plurality of content collections, the interface information including a first selectable queue request element associated with a first content collection within the first plurality of content collections, a second selectable queue request element associated with a second content collection within the first plurality of content collections, and a queue play element; receiving, from the first mobile device, a first story queue request associated with the first selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, from the first mobile device, a second story queue request associated with the second selectable queue request element within the interface information; receiving, from the first mobile device, a playlist request associated with the queue play element within the interface information; communicating the one or more content messages from the first content collection to the first mobile device for display on the first mobile device in response to the playlist request; automatically communicating the one or more content messages from the second content collection to the first mobile device for automatic display on the first mobile device; and communicating one or more advertising elements for presentation on the first mobile device prior to automatic display of the second content collection.
</claims>
</document>
