<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E02F3/32,E02F3/40,E02F9/24,E02F9/26,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T7/00,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUMITOMO HEAVY INDUSTRIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIYOTA, YOSHIHISA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54766661
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Human detection system for construction machine
</title>

<abstract>
A human detection system may detect the presence of a human around a shovel by using an image captured by an imaging device that is attached to the shovel and that captures a human from diagonally above. The human detection system may have an extracting part that extracts a part of the captured image as a target image, and an identifying part that identifies whether an image included in the target image extracted by the extracting part is an image of a human by an image processing. A target image region in the captured image corresponds to a virtual plane region having a predetermined size in a real space. In the real space, the virtual plane region faces toward the imaging device and is inclined with respect to a horizontal surface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A human detection system for a construction machine, comprising: an imaging device that is attached to the construction machine; a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, and configured to: obtain an image captured by the imaging device; identify and extract a part of digital data of the captured image as a target image corresponding to a virtual plane region among a plurality of virtual plane regions in a real space that is an imaging range of the imaging device, the extracted part of the digital data defining a two-dimensional plane region; identify whether an image included in the extracted target image is a human image; and detect a presence of a human around the construction machine by using an identification result, wherein, in the real space, the virtual plane region faces toward the imaging device and is inclined with respect to a horizontal surface, the plurality of virtual plane regions include a first virtual plane region and a second virtual plane region, and when viewed in a direction normal to the horizontal surface, a side of the first virtual plane region facing toward the imaging device and a side of the second virtual plane region facing toward the imaging device are inclined at different angles relative to an optical axis of the imaging device.
2. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the virtual plane region is a rectangular region formed by four apexes of a virtual cuboid having a predetermined size in the real space, and the virtual plane region is so sized as to include an image corresponding in size to a whole human body in the target image.
3. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to add information on a distance between the virtual plane region and the imaging device to the target image, and to change details of an identification process of identifying whether the image included in the extracted target image is the human image, depending on the distance between the virtual plane region and the imaging device.
4. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein a plurality of preset points that are assumed standing positions of the human in the real space are placed at corresponding grid points of a virtual grid on the horizontal surface that is a virtual land surface, and the plurality of virtual plane regions are correlated with the corresponding preset points on the virtual land surface.
5. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the imaging device is inclined to an extent where an image of a part of a machine body of the construction machine is included in the captured image, and the processor is configured to mask a region corresponding to the image of the part of the machine body in the target image.
6. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 2, wherein the virtual plane region is a diagonal plane of the virtual cuboid, and the virtual cuboid is so placed as to have a face thereof directly confronting the imaging device.
7. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the target image varies in shape depending on a position of the target image in the captured image, and the processor is configured to transform the target image into a rectangular image having a predetermined size, and to identify whether the image included in the rectangular image is the human image.
8. The human detection system fir the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the imaging device is attached such that an optical axis of the imaging device is directed diagonally downward, and the virtual plane region in the real space is inclined toward the imaging device relative to the horizontal surface.
9. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first virtual plane region and the second virtual plane region have respective surfaces facing away from the horizontal surface, the respective surfaces facing in different directions in the real space.
10. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first virtual plane region and the second virtual plane region are in different planes in the real space, the different planes intersecting each other.
11. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein the plurality of virtual plane regions are associated with corresponding points on the horizontal surface that is a virtual land surface, when viewed in the direction normal to the horizontal surface, a line segment joining the imaging device and one of the corresponding points associated with the first virtual plane region is orthogonal to the side of the first virtual plane region, and a line segment joining the imaging device and one of the corresponding points associated with the second virtual plane region is orthogonal to the side of the second virtual plane region, a distance from the imaging device to the first virtual plane region is different from a distance from the imaging device to the second virtual plane region, and the target image corresponding to the first virtual plane region and the target image corresponding to the second virtual plane region are different in shape and size.
12. The human detection system for the construction machine as claimed in claim 1, wherein, in the real space, the plurality of virtual plane regions face toward the imaging device and are inclined with respect to the horizontal surface.
13. A shovel, comprising: an imaging device; a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory, and configured to: obtain an image captured by the imaging device; identify and extract a part of digital data of the captured image as a target image corresponding to a virtual plane region among a plurality of virtual plane regions in a real space that is an imaging range of the imaging device, the extracted pan of the digital data defining a two-dimensional plane region; identify whether an image included in the extracted target image is a human image; and detect a presence of a human around the shovel by using an identification result, wherein, in the real space, the virtual plane region faces toward the imaging device and is inclined with respect to a horizontal surface, the plurality of virtual plane regions include a first virtual plane region and a second virtual plane region, and when viewed in a direction normal to the horizontal surface, a side of the first virtual plane region facing toward the imaging device and a side of the second virtual plane region facing toward the imaging device are inclined at different angles relative to an optical axis of the imaging device.
</claims>
</document>
