<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G10L21/00,G10L21/0232,G10L21/0364,G10L25/30,G10L25/78,H04R1/40,H04R3/00,H04R3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HERA, CRISTIAN MARIUS
JAIN, ANKITA D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64110260
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Noise reduction using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
The technology described in this document can be embodied in a method for processing an input signal that represents a signal of interest captured in the presence of noise to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest. The method includes receiving an input signal representing a signal of interest captured in the presence of noise. The method also includes processing at least a portion of the input signal using a digital filter to generate a filtered signal, the digital filter configured to suppress at least a portion of spectrum of the noise. The method further includes processing the filtered signal using a first neural network to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest, wherein the first neural network is trained to compensate for distortions introduced by the digital filter in the signal of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an input signal representing a signal of interest captured in the presence of noise, wherein the signal of interest is at least one of (i) a speech signal or (ii) an acoustic signal representing music; processing at least a portion of the input signal using a digital filter to generate a filtered signal, the digital filter being configured to suppress at least a portion of spectrum of the noise; and processing the filtered signal using a first neural network to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest, wherein the first neural network is trained to compensate for distortions introduced by the digital filter in the signal of interest, wherein the digital filter is at least one of a fixed filter or a variable filter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input signal is captured using one or more microphones.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the input signal comprises: generating a frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest; and applying the digital filter to the frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest to generate the filtered signal.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest comprises a plurality of short-time Fourier Transform coefficients.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest comprises complex components of coefficients representing the signal of interest.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital filter is a fixed filter configured to suppress at least a portion of the spectrum of the noise below a threshold frequency.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital filter comprises a variable filter, a frequency response of which is derived based on a predetermined number of frames of the input signal.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the frequency response represents an ideal ratio mask (IRM), which is computed as a square root of a ratio of (i) a measure of energy in each time-frequency bin of the signal of interest, and (ii) a measure of energy in the same time-frequency bin of the input signal.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the frequency response represents an ideal binary mask, which is equal to 0 if the corresponding IRM in the same time-frequency bin satisfies a user-defined threshold condition, and equal to a non-zero value if the corresponding IRM in the same time-frequency bin does not satisfy the user-defined threshold condition.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the variable filter comprises a second neural network comprising one or more neural network layers.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the filtered signal using the first neural network to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest comprises: applying an inverse Fourier Transform to an output of the first neural network to generate the de-noised estimate of the signal of interest in time domain.
12. A system for reducing noise from an input signal comprising: a digital filter configured to: receive an input signal representing a signal of interest captured in the presence of noise, wherein the signal of interest is at least one of (i) a speech signal or (ii) an acoustic signal representing music, and process at least a portion of the input signal using the digital filter to generate a filtered signal by suppressing at least a portion of spectrum of the noise wherein the digital filter is at least one of a fixed filter or a variable filter; and a first neural network configured to: process the filtered signal to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest, wherein the first neural network is trained to compensate for distortions introduced by the digital filter in the signal of interest.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein processing the input signal comprises: generating a frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest; and filtering the frequency-domain representation of the signal of interest using the digital filter to generate the filtered signal.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the digital filter is a fixed filter configured to suppress at least a portion of the spectrum of the noise below a threshold frequency.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the digital filter comprises a variable filter, a frequency response of which is derived based on a predetermined number of frames of the input signal.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the frequency response represents an ideal ratio mask (IRM), which is computed as a square root of a ratio of (i) a measure of energy in each time-frequency bin of the signal of interest, and (ii) a measure of energy in the same time-frequency bin of the input signal.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the frequency response represents an ideal binary mask, which is equal to 0 if the corresponding IRM in the same time-frequency bin satisfies a user-defined threshold condition, and equal to a non-zero value if the corresponding IRM in the same time-frequency bin does not satisfy the user-defined threshold condition.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein processing the filtered signal using the first neural network to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest comprises: applying an inverse Fourier Transform to an output of the first neural network to generate the de-noised estimate of the signal of interest in time domain.
19. One or more machine-readable storage devices having encoded thereon computer readable instructions for causing one or more processing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving an input signal representing a signal of interest captured in the presence of noise, wherein the signal of interest is at least one of (i) a speech signal or (ii) an acoustic signal representing music; processing at least a portion of the input signal using a digital filter to generate a filtered signal, wherein the digital filter is configured to suppress at least a portion of spectrum of the noise, and wherein the digital filter is at least one of a fixed filter or a variable filter; and processing the filtered signal using a first neural network to generate a de-noised estimate of the signal of interest, wherein the first neural network is trained to compensate for distortions introduced by the digital filter in the signal of interest.
</claims>
</document>
