<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOSOKAWA, KOHJI
ISHII MASATOSHI
NAKAMURA YUTAKA
OKAZAWA, JUNKA
YASUDA, TAKEO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59088570
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digitial STDP synapse and LIF neuron-based neuromorphic system
</title>

<abstract>
Described is a neuromorphic system implemented in hardware that implements neuron membrane potential update based on the leaky integrate and fire (LIF) model. The system further models synapse weights update based on the spike time-dependent plasticity (STDP) model. The system includes an artificial neural network in which the update scheme of neuron membrane potential and synapse weight are effectively defined and implemented.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A neuromorphic system for generating neuron activity, comprising, in a hardware implementation: an axon spike timer to determine the elapsed time between occurrences of axon spikes in synapses between neurons; a dendrite spike timer to determine the elapsed time between occurrences of dendrite spikes in synapses between neurons; a neuron membrane potential register where current neuron membrane potential values are stored, operatively coupled to a neuron membrane potential updating logic; a memory unit that stores current values of synapse weights; the neuron membrane potential updating logic that determines neuron membrane potential values based on a leaky integrate and fire model of neuron membrane potential behavior, operatively coupled to the axon timer, the memory unit, the neuron membrane potential register and dendrite output register; and a dendrite output register that converts serial neuron fire data signals to parallel neuron fire data signals.
2. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising: a synapse weight updating logic that determines updated synapse weight values based on the spike time-dependent plasticity rule, operatively coupled to the axon timer, the dendrite timer, and the memory unit.
3. The neuromorphic system of claim 2, wherein the synapse weight update logic is comprised of a synapse weight incrementer, for registering increments in synapse weights, and a synapse weight decrementer, for registering decrements in synapse weights.
4. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising: a neuron network for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
5. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising a neuron network having inputs, for receiving parallel neuron fire signals of pre-neurons from the dendrite output register and inputting the signals to axons of the neuron network.
6. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising a neuron network having a crossbar configuration of axons and dendrites that intersect at synapses.
7. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising a single core neuron network without a feedback connection for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
8. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising a single core neuron network with a feedback connection for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
9. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, further comprising a multi-core neuron network having connected cores for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
10. The neuromorphic system of claim 1, wherein the memory unit is a random access memory unit and the system further comprises a row and address decoder, for decoding row and column addresses for synapse weights stored in the random access memory unit.
11. A neuromorphic system for generating neuron activity, comprising, in a hardware implementation: a neuron and synapse network that generates neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons; an axon spike timer that measures the elapsed time between occurrences of axon spikes in synapses between neurons; a dendrite spike timer that measures the elapsed time between occurrences of dendrite spikes in synapses between neurons; a synapse weight memory unit that stores the current values of synapse weight; a neuron membrane potential register that stores the current neuron membrane potential values of neurons; a neuron membrane potential updating logic that updates the neuron membrane potential values and sends neuron fire signals to a dendrite output register, the updating based on a leaky integrate and fire model of neuron membrane potential behavior; and the dendrite output register that converts serial neuron fire data received from the neuron membrane potential updating logic to parallel neuron fire data.
12. The neuromorphic system of claim 11, further comprising: a synapse weight updating logic that updates synapse weight values of the synapses based on the spike time-dependent plasticity rule that considers data comprising the elapsed time between occurrences of axon spikes received from the axon timer, the elapsed time between occurrences of axon spikes received from the dendrite timer, current synapse weight values received from the synapse weight memory unit.
13. The neuromorphic system of claim 11, wherein the neuron membrane potential updating logic is configured to generate neuron fire signals when neuron membrane potential values attain a neuron fire threshold value and for resetting and presetting neuron potential values on neuron firing.
14. The neuromorphic system of claim 11, wherein the neuron and synapse network is a single core network without a feedback connection for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
15. The neuromorphic system of claim 11, wherein the neuron and synapse network is a single core network with a feedback connection for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
16. The neuromorphic system of claim 11, wherein the neuron and synapse network is a multi-core network having connected cores for generating neuron activity and synapse activity between neurons.
17. A method for simulating neuron activity with spike time-dependent plasticity modeling and leaky integrate and fire modeling comprising, implementing in hardware: generating neuron activity and synapse activity between the axons of pre-neurons and neuron bodies of post-neurons in a wired network; timing the elapsed time between occurrences of axon spikes in synapses between neurons in a timer unit; timing the elapsed time between occurrences of dendrite spikes in synapses between neurons in a timer unit; storing current neuron membrane potentials of neurons in a storage block; updating neuron membrane potential values in a logic block that performs the update based on leaky integrate and fire model of neuron membrane potential decay; and updating synapse weight values of the synapses in a logic block that performs the update determination based on spike time-dependent plasticity rule.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the updating of neuron membrane potential values based on the leaky integrate and fire model of neuron membrane potential decay is determined based on the elapsed time between the axon spikes, the stored current synapse weight values of the synapses, and the current neuron membrane potential of the neurons; and the updating of synapse weight values of the synapses based on the spike time-dependent plasticity rule is determined based on the elapsed time between axon spikes, the elapsed time between dendrite spikes, and the stored current synapse weight values.
19. The method according to claim 17, further comprising: converting serial neuron fire data to parallel neuron fire data.
</claims>
</document>
