<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12G3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AEVA LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FEARNSIDE, ZACHARY CAMERON
GUIDO, STEVEN FRANK
JEANNERET, KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945870
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Customizable accelerated aging for distilled spirits
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatuses for the accelerated aging of beverages, including distilled spirits are disclosed. A spirit is aged through a modular approach that targets development of individual sensory characteristics. In one embodiment, a spirit undergoes ultrasonic cavitation in the presence of wood chips, heating in the presence of wood chips, ultrasonic cavitation without wood chips, heating without wood chips, and intermittent aeration. The process is operable to produce a highly customized spirit and achieve a taste, bouquet, and color similar to that of traditionally aged spirits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for accelerating aging of a beverage, comprising: at least two reaction chambers, including a first reaction chamber and a second reaction chamber, wherein the first reaction chamber includes a wood load, and wherein the second reaction chamber does not include wood; at least one first ultrasonic transducer and at least one second ultrasonic transducer, wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply ultrasonic energy to contents of the first reaction chamber and the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply ultrasonic energy to contents of the second reaction chamber; at least one temperature control system, wherein the at least one temperature control system includes at least one heating system and at least one cooling system; at least one fluid circulation pump; at least one valve; at least one gas infusion system; and a fluid; wherein the at least one fluid circulation pump is operable to circulate the fluid between the first reaction chamber and the second reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one valve is operable to open or close a connection between the first reaction chamber and the second reaction chamber; wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply a first ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the first reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to simultaneously cool the fluid for at least some time during the application of the first ultrasonic energy; wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply a first heat to the fluid and increase a temperature of the fluid; wherein the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply a second ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the second reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to simultaneously cool the fluid for at least some time during the application of the second ultrasonic energy; wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply a second heat to the fluid and increase the temperature of the fluid; wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the first ultrasonic energy, the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the first heat, the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the second ultrasonic energy, and the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the second heat, respectively, in sequence; wherein the valve is operable to close the connection between the first reaction chamber and the second reaction chamber before the application of the second ultrasonic energy; and wherein the at least one gas infusion system is operable to introduce at least one gas to the fluid.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the first ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the first reaction chamber at a rate of at least 5 watt-hours per liter, and wherein the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the second ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the second reaction chamber at a rate of at least 5 watt-hours per liter.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to maintain a temperature of the fluid below approximately 85° F. while the at least one first ultrasonic transducer applies the first ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the first reaction chamber.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to maintain the temperature of the fluid below approximately 75° F. while the at least one first ultrasonic transducer applies the first ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the first reaction chamber.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to maintain a first temperature of the fluid between approximately 120° F. and approximately 165° F. during the application of the first heat to the fluid in the first reaction chamber and a second temperature of the fluid between approximately 120° F. and approximately 165° F. during the application of the second heat to the fluid in the second reaction chamber.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the first heat for at least approximately 12 hours, and wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the second heat for at least approximately 24 hours.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one computer device, wherein the at least one computer device is operable to receive at least one input corresponding to desired sensory information, including at least one of an aroma, a taste, a color, or a mouthfeel, and wherein the at least one computer device is operable to determine and adjust at least one corresponding parameter for the application of the first ultrasonic energy, the application of the first heat, the application of the second ultrasonic energy, and/or or the application of the second heat based on the at least one input.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a holding reservoir, wherein the holding reservoir is connected to the at least two reaction chambers.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the fluid is an alcoholic beverage.
10. A system for accelerated aging of a beverage, comprising: at least two reaction chambers, including a first reaction chamber and a second reaction chamber, wherein the first reaction chamber includes an organic material load, and wherein the second reaction chamber does not include organic material; at least one first ultrasonic transducer and at least one second ultrasonic transducer, wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply ultrasonic energy to contents of the first reaction chamber and the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply ultrasonic energy to contents of the second reaction chamber; at least one temperature control system; at least one fluid circulation pump; a gas infusion system; a fluid; and an organic material; wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply a first ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the first reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to simultaneously maintain a first temperature of the fluid in the first reaction chamber below approximately 85° F.; wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply a first heat to the fluid and simultaneously maintain a second temperature of the fluid above approximately 120° F.; wherein the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply a second ultrasonic energy to the fluid in the second reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to simultaneously cool the fluid for at least some time during the application of the second ultrasonic energy; wherein the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply a second heat to the fluid and maintain a third temperature of the fluid in the second reaction chamber of at least approximately 120° F.; wherein the applying the first ultrasonic energy, the applying the first heat, the applying the second ultrasonic energy, and the applying the second heat do not occur simultaneously; and wherein the gas infusion system is operable to introduce at least one gas to the fluid.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the first ultrasonic energy and the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the first heat before both the at least one second ultrasonic transducer applies the second ultrasonic energy and the at least one temperature control system applies the second heat.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one temperature control system includes at least one heating element, at least one cooling system, and at least one circulation pump.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one temperature control system includes a heat exchanger operable to heat and cool the fluid.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is in contact with at least one flat side of the first reaction chamber, and wherein the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is in contact with at least one flat side of the second reaction chamber.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one first ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the first ultrasonic energy, the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the first heat, the at least one second ultrasonic transducer is operable to apply the second ultrasonic energy, or the at least one temperature control system is operable to apply the second heat, respectively, for at least two iterations, and wherein the gas infusion system is operable to introduce the at least one gas to the fluid between the at least two iterations.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the gas infusion system is operable to introduce the at least one gas to the fluid for at least approximately 5 minutes between the predetermined intervals.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the organic material load is a wood load.
18. The system of claim 10, further comprising at least one valve, wherein the at least one valve is operable to close a connection between the first reaction chamber and the second reaction chamber before the application of the second ultrasonic energy.
</claims>
</document>
