<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/32,H04N5/225,H04N5/232,H04N5/235
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIELDS, ZIKOMO
JOSHI, YASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325681
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Capturing images using sub-frame illumination
</title>

<abstract>
The technology described in this document can be embodied in a method for capturing an image. The method includes generating a first control signal configured to cause a rolling shutter camera to capture an image of a subject over a first time period. The method also includes generating, at a first time point during the first time period, a second control signal configured to set a multi-spectral illumination source at a first intensity level. The multi-spectral illumination source is configured to illuminate the subject. The method further includes generating, at a second time point during the first time period, a third control signal configured to set the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level that is less than the first intensity level. A portion of the image captured by the rolling shutter camera between the first and second time points includes a target feature associated with the subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for capturing an image, the method comprising: receiving, from a first image sensor, a first image of a subject, determining, based on the first image, a position of a target feature associated with the subject and a size of the target feature; determining, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a first time point and a second time point; generating a first control signal configured to cause a rolling shutter camera to capture an image of the subject, wherein the image is captured over a first time period; generating, at the first time point during the first time period, a second control signal configured to set a multi-spectral illumination source at a first intensity level, wherein the multi-spectral illumination source is configured to illuminate the subject; and generating, at the second time point during the first time period, a third control signal configured to set the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level that is less than the first intensity level, wherein a portion of the image captured by the rolling shutter camera between the first and second time points includes the target feature.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target feature comprises an eye region of the subject.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the target feature associated with the subject comprises eyes of the subject.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image of the subject is captured without the multi-spectral illumination source being set to the first intensity level.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first image sensor is disposed in a first camera, and wherein the first image is captured using a higher camera gain than a camera gain used by the rolling shutter camera to capture the image.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein setting the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level comprises turning off the multi-spectral illumination source.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a difference between the first time point and the second time point is less than about 10 milliseconds.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the multi-spectral illumination source comprises a light-emitting diode (LED) element.
9. A system comprising: a rolling shutter camera; a first image sensor a multi-spectral illumination source; and one or more processing devices in communication with the rolling shutter camera, the first image sensor, and the multi-spectral illumination source, the one or more processing devices configured to perform operations comprising: receiving, from the first image sensor, a first image of a subject; determining, based on the first image, a position of a target feature associated with the subject and a size of the target feature; determining, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a first time point and a second time point; generating a first control signal configured to cause the rolling shutter camera to capture an image of the subject, wherein the image is captured over a first time period; generating, at the first time point during the first time period, a second control signal configured to set the multi-spectral illumination source at a first intensity level, wherein the multi-spectral illumination source is configured to illuminate the subject; and generating, at the second time point during the first time period, a third control signal configured to set the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level that is less than the first intensity level, wherein a portion of the image captured by the rolling shutter camera between the first and second time points includes the target feature.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the target feature associated with the subject comprises an eye region of the subject.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the target feature associated with the subject comprises eyes of the subject.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the first image of the subject is captured without the multi-spectral illumination source being set to the first intensity level.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the first image sensor is disposed in a first camera different from the rolling shutter camera, and wherein the first image is captured using a higher camera gain than a camera gain used by the rolling shutter camera to capture the image.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein setting the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level comprises turning off the multi-spectral illumination source.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein a difference between the first time point and the second time point is less than about 10 milliseconds.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the multi-spectral illumination source comprises a light-emitting diode (LED) element.
17. One or more machine-readable storage devices comprising machine-readable instructions configured to cause one or more processing devices to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a first image sensor, a first image of a subject; determining, based on the first image, a position of a target feature associated with the subject and a size of the target feature; determining, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a first time point and a second time point; generating a first control signal configured to cause a rolling shutter camera to capture an image of the subject, wherein the image is captured over a first time period; generating, at the first time point during the first time period, a second control signal configured to set a multi-spectral illumination source at a first intensity level, wherein the multi-spectral illumination source is configured to illuminate the subject; and generating, at the second time point during the first time period, a third control signal configured to set the multi-spectral illumination source at a second intensity level that is less than the first intensity level, wherein a portion of the image captured by the rolling shutter camera between the first and second time points includes the target feature.
18. The one or more machine-readable storage devices of claim 17, wherein the target feature comprises an eye region of the subject.
19. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a mathematical model representing a position of a rolling shutter of the rolling shutter camera with respect to the first time period.
20. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations comprise: generating, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a mathematical model representing a position of a rolling shutter of the rolling shutter camera with respect to the first time period.
21. The one or more machine-readable storage devices of claim 17, wherein the operations comprise: generating, based on the position of the target feature and the size of the target feature, a mathematical model representing a position of a rolling shutter of the rolling shutter camera with respect to the first time period.
</claims>
</document>
