<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/34,G06K7/10,G06Q20/36,G06Q20/38,G06Q40/00,G06Q50/26,H04L29/06,H04L9/08,H04L9/32,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YOTI HOLDING
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODRIGUEZ, FRANCISCO ANGEL GARCIA
LOUGHLIN-MCHUGH, ELEANOR SIMONE FREDERIKA
SZCZESNIAK, ROMAN EDWARD
GRECI, PAOLO
POWLESLAND, PIERS
WITHERS, LAURENCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62556349
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital identity system
</title>

<abstract>
A digital identity system comprises an enrolment module configured to receive a data item captured from an identity document, and create in persistent electronic storage a digital identity comprising the data item, a credential creation module configured to issue to a user device a credential bound to the digital identity, and a validation service. The validation service is configured to receive an electronic message comprising the credential and identifying a target device, validate the credential, and if the credential is valid, use the credential to transmit an electronic message to the target device, so as to render the data item of the digital identity available to the target device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A digital identity system comprising: an enrolment module configured to receive a data item captured from an identity document, and create in persistent electronic storage a digital identity comprising the data item; a credential creation module configured to issue to a user device a credential bound to the digital identity; and a validation service configured to receive an electronic message comprising the credential and identifying a target device, validate the credential, and if the credential is valid, use the credential to transmit an electronic message to the target device, so as to render the data item of the digital identity available to the target device.
2. The digital identity system according to claim 1 further comprising: a verification service configured to compare data captured from the identity document with an identifier captured from a user at the user device; wherein the creation of the digital identity, the issuing of the credential, or the transmitting of the electronic message to the target device is conditional on the identifier matching the data captured from the identity document.
3. The digital identify system according to claim 2, wherein the identifier is a biometric identifier and the data is biometric data.
4. The digital identity system according to claim 3, wherein the biometric data is an identification photograph and the biometric identifier is a facial image.
5. The digital identity system according to claim 1, wherein the digital identity system is configured to associate the digital identity with an asset.
6. The digital identity system according to claim 5, wherein the asset is a digital wallet, a sum of money, a bank account, a unique card attribute, a payment token or a bank card.
7. The digital system according to claim 5, wherein the asset is associated with the digital identity such that the user can use the asset by presenting the credential to the target device for transmission in the electronic message to the validation service or by transmitting the credential to the validation service in the electronic message.
8. The digital identity system according to claim 5, wherein the electronic message transmitted to the target device renders the asset or information relating to the asset available to the target device.
9. The digital identity system according to claim 5, wherein the asset is a physical asset, wherein data identifying the physical asset is stored at the digital identity system in association with the digital identity.
10. The digital identity system according to claim 5, wherein the asset is digital asset, wherein the digital asset or data about the digital asset is stored at the digital identity system in association with the digital identity.
11. The digital identity system according to claim 1, wherein the target device is identified by a target entity credential comprised in the message.
12. The digital identity system according to claim 1, wherein the electronic message is received from the user device.
13. The digital identity system according to claim 12, wherein the target device is identified by a sharing token comprised in the electronic message and associated with the target device.
14. The digital identity system according to claim 1, wherein the electronic message is received from the target device, the credential having been captured at the target device.
15. The digital identity system according to claim 14, wherein the credential is in the form of a sharing token issued to the user device in response to a sharing token request.
16. A method of creating a digital identity comprising: at a user device, capturing a data item from an identity document; creating an electronic message comprising the data item; transmitting the electronic message from the user device to a digital identity system; receiving at the user device from the digital identity system an electronic message comprising a credential, which is bound to a digital identity comprising the data item, the digital identity having been created at the digital identity system in response to the electronic message comprising the data item; and storing the credential at the user device, wherein later presentation of the credential to the digital identity system causes the data item of the digital identity to be rendered available to a device presenting the credential.
17. The method according to claim 16, comprising capturing at the user device a facial image or other biometric identifier of a user of the user device, which is included in the electronic message transmitted to the digital identity system.
18. The method according to claim 17, comprising transmitting, from the user device to the digital identity system, a digital asset or information about an asset for associating with the digital identity.
19. A user device comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to: capture a data item from an identity document, create an electronic message comprising the data item, transmit the electronic message from the user device to a digital identity system, receive from the digital identity system an electronic message comprising a credential, which is bound to a digital identity comprising the data item, the digital identity having been created at the digital identity system in response to the electronic message comprising the data item; and store the credential in the memory, wherein later presentation of the credential to the digital identity system causes the data item of the digital identity to be rendered available to a device presenting the credential.
20. Non-transitory computer readable storage media including code executable on a user device to implement a method comprising: capturing a data item from an identity document; creating an electronic message comprising the data item; transmitting the electronic message from the user device to a digital identity system; receiving from the digital identity system an electronic message comprising a credential, which is bound to a digital identity comprising the data item, the digital identity having been created at the digital identity system in response to the electronic message comprising the data item; and storing the credential at the user device, wherein later presentation of the credential to the digital identity system causes the data item of the digital identity to be rendered available to a device presenting the credential.
</claims>
</document>
