<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E05C3/14,G02B6/36,G02B6/38,G02B6/42,G06F1/18,G06F13/40,H01R12/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEIGH, KEVIN B.
ROESNER ARLEN L.
GANTA PAPA RAO BALA, SUNIL RAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65724320
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Removable transceiver module
</title>

<abstract>
Examples relate to a removable transceiver module that comprises a base frame installable in a rail-pair receptacle that surrounds a first connector in a system board. It further comprises a module base board, a second connector attached thereto and a lever handle pivotally attached to the base frame and coupled to the module base board. The transceiver module is installed in the rail-pair receptacle in response to a lateral movement of the base frame to the receptacle to align the first and second connectors. The lever handle is movable between a closed position to couple the second connector to the first connector and an open position to install the transceiver module into the receptacle. This lever handle determines a vertical move of the module base board between the closed position and the open position.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A removable transceiver module comprising: a base frame installable in a rail-pair receptacle that at least partially surrounds a first connector in a system board; a module base board and a second connector attached thereto; and a lever handle pivotally attached to the base frame and coupled to the module base board; wherein the removable transceiver module is to be installed in the receptacle in response to a lateral movement of the base frame with respect to the receptacle to align the second connector with the first connector; wherein the lever handle is movable between a closed position to couple the second connector to the first connector and an open position to install the removable transceiver module into the receptacle, the lever handle determining a vertical move of the module base board between the closed position and the open position; and wherein the lever handle is a contoured lever handle comprising: one arm located at each side of the base frame, each arm having one free end pivotally attached to the base frame; and an actuating portion joining both arms by their opposite end; and wherein the lever handle comprises projections that, with the lever handle in its closed position, are positioned to abut against the rail-pair receptacle avoiding insertion of the removable transceiver module into the rail-pair receptacle and, with the lever handle in its open position, are positioned to allow insertion of the removable transceiver module into the rail-pair receptacle.
2. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, wherein the rail-pair receptacle is an open structure attached to system board.
3. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, comprising guides located at both sides of the base frame to be inserted in respective guide rails in the rail-pair receptacle.
4. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, wherein the lever handle comprises protrusions that, with the removable transceiver module fully inserted into the rail-pair receptacle and the lever handle in its closed position, abut against the rail-pair receptacle retaining the removable transceiver module.
5. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, comprising a lever handle spring to maintain the lever handle in the open position.
6. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, comprising retention elements to, with the removable transceiver module fully inserted into the rail-pair receptacle, maintain the lever handle in the closed position.
7. The removable transceiver module of claim 1, comprising a front cover at least partially covering the base frame and fitting into an opening of a system faceplate in which the removable transceiver module is installed.
8. A system comprising: a system board comprising a first connector; a rail-pair receptacle attached to the system board and at least partially surrounding the first connector; a removable transceiver module comprising a base frame installable in the rail-pair receptacle, a module base board and a second connector attached thereto and a lever handle pivotally attached to the base frame and coupled to the module base board; wherein the removable transceiver module is to be installed in the rail-pair receptacle in response to a lateral movement of the base frame with respect to the rail-pair receptacle to align the second connector with the first connector; wherein the lever handle is movable between a closed position to couple the second connector to the first connector and an open position to allow the installation of the removable transceiver module into the rail-pair receptacle, the lever handle determining a vertical move of the module base board between the closed position and the open position; wherein the lever handle is a U-shaped lever handle having two free ends and the lever handle is pivotally attached to the base frame by the two free ends; wherein the U-shaped lever handle comprises: one arm located at each side of the base frame, each arm having one free end that is pivotally attached to the base frame; and an actuating portion joining both arms by their opposite end; and wherein the lever handle comprises protrusions and the rail-pair receptacle comprises respective first recesses such that, with the removable transceiver module fully inserted into the rail-pair receptacle and the lever handle in its closed position, the protrusions are inserted into the first recesses and the protrusions abut against side walls of the first recesses to retain the removable transceiver module.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the removable transceiver module comprises guides located at both sides of the base frame and the rail-pair receptacle comprises respective guide rails in which the guides are to be inserted.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the lever handle comprises projections that, with the lever handle in its closed position, are positioned to abut against the rail-pair receptacle avoiding insertion of the removable transceiver module into the rail-pair receptacle and, with the lever handle in its open position, are positioned substantially parallel to an upper surface of the rail-pair receptacle allowing insertion of the removable transceiver module into the rail-pair receptacle.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the upper surface of the rail-pair receptacle comprises second recesses to, with the removable transceiver module fully inserted into the rail-pair receptacle and the lever handle in its closed position, house the projections of the lever handle.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the removable transceiver module comprises a front cover at least partially covering the base frame and a lever handle spring to maintain the lever handle in the open position, wherein the lever handle spring is located in a cavity defined by the front cover and the base frame.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the front cover and the base frame fit into an opening of a system faceplate in which the removable transceiver module is installed.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the removable transceiver module comprises retention elements that define an inwardly position that allows the lever handle to freely move between its first and open position and a retention position in which the lever handle is retained in its closed position.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the retention elements are actuated by a preloaded spring that apply a force on the retention elements to maintain the retention elements in their retention position.
</claims>
</document>
