<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E04H4/12,G05B13/02,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
11114140 CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARSOUSI, MAHDI
HOSSEINI, AMIR H
MISHRA, AKSHAYA KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783616
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for automated water operations for aquatic facilities using image-based machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided systems and methods for automated water operations for aquatic facilities using at least one image captured of the aquatic facilities. A method includes: receiving an input signal including a detected number of occupants in the water at the aquatic facilities, the number of occupants determined using a trained detection machine learning model, the detection machine learning model receiving the captured image with an associated feature map as input, and outputting a detection of each occupant in the water, the water level machine learning model trained using training images each including a respective label for each occupant in the training image; determining a volume of water to add by multiplying the number of occupants by a predetermined volume of freshwater to add per occupant; and directing one or more water flow regulators to permit inflow of water approximately equivalent to the volume of water to add.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automated water operations for aquatic facilities using at least one image captured of the aquatic facilities, the method comprising: receiving the at least one captured image; receiving an input signal comprising a detected number of occupants in the water at the aquatic facilities captured in the at least one captured image determined using a trained detection machine learning model, the detection machine learning model taking as input the at least one captured image with an associated feature map, and outputting a detection of each occupant in the water, the detection machine learning model trained using training images, each training image comprising a respective label for each occupant in such training image; determining a volume of water to add by multiplying the number of occupants detected by the trained machine learning model by a predetermined volume of freshwater to add per occupant; and directing one or more water flow regulators to control inflow of water equivalent to the volume of water to add.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving another input signal comprising a water level estimation.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the water level is estimated using a trained water level estimation machine learning model, the water level estimation machine learning model receiving the at least one captured image as input, the at least one captured image capturing a floating object indicative of the water level, the water level estimation machine learning model outputting the water level based on detection of the vertical position of the floating object, the water level estimation machine learning model trained using training images each comprising the floating object and a respective label for water level.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining a maximum volume of water that can be added and determining a minimum volume of water to be added, the minimum volume of water to add is determined using the difference between the water level before the addition of any water and a minimum permitted water level multiplied by the area of the water, the maximum volume of water to add is determined using the difference between the water level before the addition of any water and a maximum permitted water level multiplied by the area of the water.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein where the volume of water to add is less than the minimum volume of water to add, the volume of water to add is made equal to the minimum volume of water to add.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining a volume of water to drain when the volume of water to add is greater than the maximum volume of water to add, the volume of water to drain is determined as a difference between the volume of water to add and the maximum volume of water to add, and directing the one or more water flow regulators to control outflow of water equivalent to the volume of water to drain.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving a further input signal comprising an estimated turbidity of the water; and where the turbidity is greater than a predetermined turbidity threshold, performing: directing the one or more water flow regulators to control outflow of water equivalent to a turbidity volume of water; and directing the one or more water flow regulators to control inflow of freshwater equivalent to the turbidity volume of water.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the turbidity of the water is estimated using a trained turbidity machine learning model, the trained turbidity machine learning model receiving the captured image as input, the captured image comprising a turbidity indicator submerged in the water, the trained turbidity machine learning model outputting the turbidity of the water based on an image clarity of the turbidity indicator in the captured image indicative of the turbidity of the water, the turbidity machine learning model trained using training images each comprising the turbidity indicator and a respective label for turbidity.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the associated feature map is localized and classified using a region proposal network.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein semi-supervised background subtraction is performed to remove areas not capturing water from the captured image that is inputted to the trained detection machine learning model.
11. A system for automated water operations for aquatic facilities using at least one image captured by one or more cameras of the aquatic facilities, the system in communication with one or more water flow regulators, the system comprising one or more processors and a data storage, the one or more processors configured to execute: an input module to receive the at least one captured image from the one or more cameras; a water control module to: receive an input signal comprising a detected number of occupants in the water at the aquatic facilities captured in the at least one captured image determined using a trained detection machine learning model, the detection machine learning model taking as input the at least one captured image with an associated feature map, and outputting a detection of each occupant in the water, the detection machine learning model trained using training images, each training image comprising a respective label for each occupant in such training image; and determine a volume of water to add by multiplying the number of occupants detected by the trained machine learning model by a predetermined volume of freshwater to add per occupant; and a device interface to direct the one or more water flow regulators to control inflow of water equivalent to the volume of water to add.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the input module further receives another input signal comprising a water level estimation.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the water level is estimated using a trained water level estimation machine learning model, the water level estimation machine learning model receiving the at least one captured image as input, the at least one captured image capturing a floating object indicative of the water level, the water level estimation machine learning model outputting the water level based on detection of the vertical position of the floating object, the water level estimation machine learning model trained using training images each comprising the floating object and a respective label for water level.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the water control module further determines a maximum volume of water that can be added and determining a minimum volume of water to be added, the minimum volume of water to add is determined using the difference between the water level before the addition of any water and a minimum permitted water level multiplied by the area of the water, the maximum volume of water to add is determined using the difference between the water level before the addition of any water and a maximum permitted water level multiplied by the area of the water.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein where the volume of water to add is less than the minimum volume of water to add, the volume of water to add is made equal to the minimum volume of water to add.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the water control module further determines a volume of water to drain when the volume of water to add is greater than the maximum volume of water to add, the volume of water to drain is determined as a difference between the volume of water to add and the maximum volume of water to add, and wherein the device interface directs the one or more water flow regulators to control outflow of water equivalent to the volume of water to drain.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the input module further receives a further input signal comprising an estimated turbidity of the water, and where the turbidity is greater than a predetermined turbidity threshold, the device interface directs the one or more water flow regulators to control outflow of water equivalent to a turbidity volume of water, and the device interface directs the one or more water flow regulators to control inflow of freshwater equivalent to the turbidity volume of water.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the turbidity of the water is estimated using a trained turbidity machine learning model, the trained turbidity machine learning model receiving the captured image as input, the captured image comprising a turbidity indicator submerged in the water, the trained turbidity machine learning model outputting the turbidity of the water based on an image clarity of the turbidity indicator in the captured image indicative of the turbidity of the water, the turbidity machine learning model trained using training images each comprising the turbidity indicator and a respective label for turbidity.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the associated feature map is localized and classified using a region proposal network.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein semi-supervised background subtraction is performed to remove areas not capturing water from the captured image that is inputted to the trained detection machine learning model.
</claims>
</document>
