<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F19/00,G06N5/04,G16H20/10,G16H40/63,G16H40/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WATCHRX
</assignee>

<inventors>
NARASIMHAN, JAYANTHI
BUDURI, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56134574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Medication adherence device and coordinated care platform
</title>

<abstract>
A method of supporting user adherence to a medication regimen includes storing received medication information associated with one or more medications using a patient wearable device and a coordinated care platform. The method also includes displaying identification and dosing information associated with the medications, generating a notification indicating that the identification information is being displayed, monitoring a response input indicating that the medications have been administered. For each of the one or more medications displayed, the method includes generating a medication status describing that either (i) the medication has been administered or (ii) the response has not been received. The method further includes generating a reminder notification when the medication status indicates that the response has not been received. The method may further include gathering behavioral data points associated with the user for submission to the coordinated care platform, which performs predictive analytics based on the data points.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of supporting adherence, of a user, to a medication regimen, comprising: by a processor-based wearable computing device that is one of wrist-worn, pendant worn or armband worn, and capable of stand-alone, independent and local execution of processor instruction code and having local data storage configured to store at least medication information and scheduling information, the wearable computing device including a display and an embedded cellular transceiver, the wearable computing device configured to communicate and cooperate with a caregiver component and a webserver component, which together with the wearable computing device comprise a coordinated care system; storing received medication information that characterizes one or more prescribed medications, including at least medication identification information including at least image information sufficient to render a recognizable image of the medication to be taken, the recognizable image being a photographic image captured from the medication that was filled by a pharmacy, the recognizable image depicting a quantity of the medication to be taken, and prescribed dosing information selectively including (i) when food is required to be taken with, before, or after the medication, (ii) when the medication is to be taken at a specific time, and (iii) personalized voice instructions, comprising a medication name, the quantity of the medication, and/or instructions on how the medication should be taken, that are voiced in a family member's voice, associated with each of the one or more medications, the medication information received from one or both of the caregiver component and the webserver component; locally generating and storing, by the wearable computing device and independent of network connectivity, a visually-renderable reminder schedule based on the received medication information, prescribed dosing information, and a meal schedule associated with the user, the reminder schedule generated to coordinate the meal schedule with when food is required to be taken with the medication and/or when the medication is to be taken at a specific time; displaying (i) the medication identification information including at least the recognizable image of the medication and (ii) dosing information selectively including when food is required to be taken with, before or after the medication, and when the medication is to be taken at a specific time, associated with at least one of the one or more medications according to the reminder schedule; generating, based on the reminder schedule and independent of network connectivity, an initial notification indicating that the medication identification information is being displayed; monitoring a response input instrumentality configured to receive a response indicating that the at least one of the one or more medications has been administered; for each of the one or more medications displayed, generating a medication status describing that either (i) the medication has been administered or (ii) the response has not been received; and when the medication status indicates that the response has not been received, (i) activating a camera integrated into the wearable computing device, and (ii) conveying the medication status to a caregiver, and receiving a subsequent reminder from the caregiver in response to the conveyed medication status.
2. The method of claim 1, further including generating a reminder notification when the medication status indicates that the response has not been received, by: re-displaying medication identification information and dosing information associated with one or more medications referenced in the reminder; generating a subsequent notification indicating that the medication identification information is being displayed; monitoring the response input instrumentality; and for each of the one or more medications referenced in the reminder, generating an updated medication status describing that either (i) the medication has been administered or (ii) the response has not been received.
3. The method of claim 2, further including repeating the reminder notification periodically until: (i) all of the at least one medications have been administered; or (ii) a predetermined time period has elapsed since generation of the initial notification.
4. The method of claim 3, further including providing the reminder notification by playing a voice recording generated by a caregiver.
5. The method of claim 3, further including repeating the reminder notification at intervals of about 10 minutes.
6. The method of claim 3, further including notifying a caregiver after the predetermined time period has elapsed.
7. The method of claim 1, further including automatically accepting an incoming communication conveying the subsequent reminder, generating a subsequent notification indicating that the medication identification information is being displayed, and monitoring the response input instrumentality configured to receive a response indicating that the at least one of the one or more medications has been administered.
8. The method of claim 7, further including automatically accepting an incoming telephone call when the incoming communication acceptance input instrumentality does not receive an accept response within a predetermined time interval.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the incoming communication is a real-time communication configured to one or both of (i) survey a patient and (ii) check in on the patient.
10. The method of claim 1, further including automatically connecting to a healthcare device, receiving health information from the healthcare device, the health information comprising one or more of (i) blood glucose, (ii) blood pressure, and (iii) heart rate, storing the health information and forwarding the health care information to a caregiver.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the identification information and dosing information includes an image associated with the at least one of the one or more medications, the image including a depiction of a vehicle by which the medication is administered, the vehicle instantiated a number of times corresponding to the dosing information.
12. The method of claim 1, further including activating a camera integrated into the wearable computing device, the activating occurring in response to a camera stimulus provided by the caregiver.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the camera stimulus includes one or more of (i) a camera activation communication received from a caregiver, (ii) the medication status indicates that the response has not been received.
14. The method of claim 1, further including synchronizing the wearable computing device by receiving and storing updated medication information.
15. The method of claim 1, further including determining geolocation of the wearable computing device in relation to a predetermined area, and notifying a caregiver when the geolocation is determined to be outside of the predetermined area.
16. The method of claim 1, further including: (i) detecting that the user has fallen by analyzing an output of one or more accelerometers embedded in the wearable computing device; (ii) notifying a caregiver upon detecting that the user has fallen.
</claims>
</document>
