<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/52,G06K9/62,G06T7/11,G06T7/13,G06T7/20,G06T7/60,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GO PRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARCIA, VINCENT
LAGUNAS, FRANCOIS
SCHWAB, MAXIME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65032152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods to distinguish between features depicted in images
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of distinguishing between feature depicted in an image are presented herein. Information defining an image may be obtained. The image may include visual content comprising an array of pixels. The array may include pixel rows. An identification of a pixel row in an image may be obtained. Distances of individual pixels and/or groups of pixels from the identified row of pixels may be determined. Parameter values for a set of pixel parameters of individual pixels of the image may be determined. Based on one or more of the distances from the identified row of pixels, parameter values of one or more pixel parameters, and/or other information, individual pixels and/or groups of pixels may be classified as one of a plurality of image features.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system configured to distinguish between features depicted in an image, the system comprising: one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: obtain information defining an image, the image comprising an array of pixels, the information defining colors for the array of pixels; obtain an identification of a row of pixels as depicting a horizon in the image; obtain distances of different pixels above and below the row of pixels from the row of pixels; obtain values of a set of pixel parameters for the different pixels; classify the different pixels as depicting different features based on the distances and the values of the set of pixel parameters; identify a set of pixels as depicting a boundary between the different features based on the classifications; and effectuate an image effect on the image based on the identification of the boundary between the different features.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the image depicts a scene, and wherein the different features include a first feature and a second feature of the scene depicted in the image.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the first feature corresponds to a depiction of sky in the scene and the second feature corresponds to a depiction of land in the scene.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the different pixels include a first pixel and a second pixel, and the one or more physical processors are, to identify the set of pixels as depicting the boundary between the different features, further configured by machine-readable instructions to: determine pixels groups, the pixel groups including a first pixel group and a second pixel group, the first pixel group including the first pixel, the second pixel group including the second pixel; and responsive to at least one pixel in individual ones of the pixel groups being classified as an individual feature, classify the individual pixel groups as depicting the corresponding individual features such that: responsive to the first pixel being classified as depicting the first feature, the first group of pixels is classified as depicting the first feature; responsive to the second pixel being classified as depicting the second feature, the second group of pixels is classified as depicting the second feature; and identify pixels of the first pixel group adjacent to the pixels of the second pixel group as the set of pixels depicting the boundary between the first feature and the second feature.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the pixels groups are determined based on the values of the set of pixel parameters.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of pixel parameters includes a first color parameter, a second color parameter, and a third color parameter.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first color parameter corresponds to a first color component of the colors of the pixels in the array, the second color parameter corresponds to a second color component of the colors of the pixels in the array, and the third color parameter corresponds to a third color component of the colors of the pixels in the array.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the first color component, second color component, and third color component correspond to individual colors channels of an RGB color space, and wherein values of the first color component, second color component, and third color component are chromaticities of the individual color channels.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the image effect includes a text effect or a transition effect.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the text effect includes text that scrolls over the image using the set of pixels identified as depicting the boundary between the different features as a reference such that the text appears to appear from behind one of the different features.
11. A method of distinguishing between features depicted in an image, the method being implemented in a computer system comprising one or more physical processors and non-transitory electronic storage storing machine-readable instructions, the method comprising: obtaining information defining an image, the image comprising an array of pixels, the information defining colors for the array of pixels; obtaining an identification of a row of pixels as depicting a horizon in the image; obtaining distances of different pixels above and below the row of pixels from the row of pixels; obtaining values of a set of pixel parameters for the different pixels; classifying the different pixels as depicting different features based on the distances and the values of the set of pixel parameters; identifying a set of pixels as depicting a boundary between the different features based on the classifications; and effectuating an image effect on the image based on the identification of the boundary between the different features.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the image depicts a scene, and wherein the different features include a first feature and a second feature of the scene depicted in the image.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first feature corresponds to a depiction of sky in the scene and the second feature corresponds to a depiction of land in the scene.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the different pixels include a first pixel and a second pixel, and identifying the set of pixels as depicting the boundary between the different features includes: determining pixels groups, the pixel groups including a first pixel group and a second pixel group, the first pixel group including the first pixel, the second pixel group including the second pixel; and responsive to at least one pixel in individual ones of the pixel groups being classified as an individual feature, classifying the individual pixel groups as depicting the corresponding individual features, such that: responsive to the first pixel being classified as depicting the first feature, classifying the first group of pixels as depicting the first feature; responsive to the second pixel being classified as depicting the second feature, classifying the second group of pixels as depicting the second feature; and identifying pixels of the first pixel group adjacent to the pixels of the second pixel group as the set of pixels depicting the boundary between the first feature and the second feature.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the pixels groups are determined based on the values of the set of pixel parameters.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the set of pixel parameters includes a first color parameter, a second color parameter, and a third color parameter.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first color parameter corresponds to a first color component of the colors of the pixels in the array, the second color parameter corresponds to a second color component of the colors of the pixels in the array, and the third color parameter corresponds to a third color component of the colors of the pixels in the array.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first color component, second color component, and third color component correspond to individual colors channels of an RGB color space, and wherein values of the first color component, second color component, and third color component are chromaticities of the individual color channels.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein the image effect includes a text effect or a transition effect.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the text effect includes text that scrolls over the image using the set of pixels identified as depicting the boundary between the different features as a reference such that the text appears to appear from behind one of the different features.
</claims>
</document>
