<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F21/10,G06K9/00,G06T11/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CITRIX SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DING, JIAN
WANG, HENGBO
WEI, DAOWEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70612833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real Time Digital Content Concealment
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for performing real time digital content concealment are described herein. A computing device may, in response to detecting a user within view of an image capture device of a client device, perform a first type of text recognition on a first region of digital content and a second type of text recognition on a second region of the digital content, where the first type of text recognition is determined based on a first type of content items contained in the first region and the second type of text recognition is determined based on a second type of content items contained in the second region. Based at least in part on rules corresponding to the user, the computing device may determine content items within the digital content to be concealed, and may modify the digital content to conceal the content items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing computer readable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: in response to detecting a user within view of an image capture device of a client device, perform a first type of text recognition on a first region of digital content displayed by the client device and a second type of text recognition on a second region of the digital content displayed by the client device, wherein the first type of text recognition is determined based on a first type of content items contained in the first region and the second type of text recognition is determined based on a second type of content items contained in the second region; determine, based at least in part on rules corresponding to the user, content items within the digital content to be concealed; modify the digital content so as to conceal the content items from view of the user while the client device displays the digital content; and display, via the client device, the modified digital content to the user, wherein the modified digital content does not contain the determined content items.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: establish a wireless data connection with the client device; and receive, while the wireless data connection is established, an indication of a first change in groups to which present users belong, wherein the first type of text recognition and the second type of text recognition are performed in response to receiving the indication of the first change in the groups to which present users belong.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to identify, based on the groups to which present users belong, the one or more content items within the digital content to be concealed.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein identifying, based on the groups to which present users belong, the one or more content items to be concealed comprises determining that text recognized in the digital content corresponds to words identified by policies corresponding to each group to which present users belong.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the groups to which present users belong are defined based on user age or employment status of the present users.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first region contains plain text, the second region contains text in an image, and a third region contains text in video.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to monitor, at a predefined interval, the groups to which present users belong and the digital content to determine the first change.
8. The system of claim 2, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine, in response to a second change in groups to which present users belong, that the modified digital content should be modified to allow display of the determined content items; and modify the modified digital content to allow display of the determined content items by returning the modified digital content to a pre-modification state.
9. The system of claim 2, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine, in response to a second change in the modified digital content, that the modified digital content contains one or more additional content items to be concealed; and modify the modified digital content to cause positions of the one or more additional content items to be concealed to correspond to a uniform color.
10. The system of claim 2, wherein the first change in groups to which present users belong is detected by: performing facial recognition to determine an identifier corresponding to each user in view of the image capture device of the client device; and determining at least one identifier corresponding to a new group to which present users belong by comparison of the determined identifiers to a stored database of correlations between a list of identifiers and a list of groups to which present users belong.
11. A method comprising: in response to detecting a user within view of an image capture device of a client device, performing a first type of text recognition on a first region of digital content displayed by the client device and a second type of text recognition on a second region of the digital content displayed by the client device, wherein the first type of text recognition is determined based on a first type of content items contained in the first region and the second type of text recognition is determined based on a second type of content items contained in the second region; determining, based at least in part on rules corresponding to the user, content items within the digital content to be concealed; modifying the digital content so as to conceal the content items from view of the user while the client device displays the digital content; and display, via the client device, the modified digital content to the user, wherein the modified digital content does not contain the determined content items.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: establishing a wireless data connection with the client device; and receiving, while the wireless data connection is established, an indication of a first change in groups to which present users belong, wherein the first type of text recognition and the second type of text recognition are performed in response to receiving the indication of the first change in the groups to which present users belong.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying, based on the groups to which present users belong, the one or more content items to be concealed, wherein identifying, based on the groups to which present users belong, the one or more content items to be concealed comprises determining that text recognized in the digital content corresponds to: words identified by policies corresponding to each group to which present users belong.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the groups to which present users belong are defined based on user age or employment status of present users.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the first region contains plain text, the second region contains text in an image, and a third region contains text in video.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising monitoring, at a predefined interval, the groups to which present users belong and the digital content to determine the first change.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, in response to a second change in groups to which present users belong, that the modified digital content should be modified to allow display of the content items; and modifying the modified digital content to allow display of the determined content items by returning the modified digital content to a pre-modification state.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, in response to a second change in the modified digital content, that the modified digital content contains one or more additional content items to be concealed; and modifying the modified digital content to cause positions of the one or more additional content items to be concealed to correspond to a uniform color.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the first change in groups to which present users belong is detected by: performing facial recognition to determine an identifier corresponding to each user in view of the image capture device of the client device; and determining at least one identifier corresponding to a new group to which present users belong by comparison of the determined identifiers to a stored database of correlations between a list of identifiers and a list of groups to which present users belong.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a system comprising at least one processor, a communication interface, and memory, cause the system to: in response to detecting a user within view of an image capture device of a client device, perform a first type of text recognition on a first region of digital content displayed by the client device and a second type of text recognition on a second region of the digital content displayed by the client device, wherein the first type of text recognition is determined based on a first type of content items contained in the first region and the second type of text recognition is determined based on a second type of content items contained in the second region; determine, based at least in part on rules corresponding to the user, content items within the digital content to be concealed; modify the digital content so as to conceal the content items from view of the user while the client device displays the digital content; and display, via the client device, the modified digital content to the user, wherein the modified digital content does not contain the determined content items.
</claims>
</document>
