<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C09K8/58,E21B41/00,E21B43/16,E21B49/00,E21B49/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIRO, RONALDO
BRYANT, PETER WILLIAM
FERREIRA, RODRIGO NEUMANN BARROS
STEINER, MATHIAS B
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63354957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive enhanced oil recovery advisor system based on digital rock simulator
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided including calculating a first property vector indicative of physical properties derived from a digital image of a first rock sample; determining a set of one or more similar rock samples by calculating a value indicating a similarity between the first rock sample and second rock samples based on the first property vector and second property vectors associated with the second rock samples; selecting a list of fluid additives based on existing enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values associated with the similar rock samples; performing, for each of the fluid additives, a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of the first rock to determine a simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for the respective fluid additives; and outputting an optimal fluid additive for the first rock sample based at least in part on the calculated similarity values and simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: calculating a first property vector indicative of at least one physical property derived from a digital image of a first porous rock sample; determining a set of one or more similar porous rock samples by calculating a value indicating a similarity between the first porous rock sample and each of one or more second porous rock samples based on the first property vector and one or more second property vectors associated with the one or more second porous rock samples; selecting a list of one or more fluid additives based on a comparison of existing enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values associated with the efficiency of the one or more fluid additives used with the one or more similar porous rock samples; performing, for each of the selected one or more fluid additives, a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of the first porous rock sample to determine a simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for each of the respective one or more fluid additives when used with the first porous rock sample; and outputting an optimal fluid additive for the first porous rock sample based at least in part on a combination of a comparison of the calculated similarity values, and a comparison of the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an input comprising physical measurement information for the first porous rock sample corresponding to at least one fluid additives in the list; and determining an experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for the at least one fluid additive based on the physical measurement information.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein outputting the optimal fluid additive for the first porous rock sample is further based on the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value and the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value are based on one or more of: relative permeability, velocity and pressure fields, sweep efficiency, oil left in place, and recovery percentage.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: recalculating the first property vector for the first porous rock sample using at least one of the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values or the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values; and uploading the recalculated first property vector to a database comprising the one or more second property vectors.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising selecting a further list of fluid additives for performing a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of a different porous rock sample, wherein the second list of additives is selected based at least in part on the recalculated first property vector.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a user input via an input of a user interface of a fluid additive advisor system comprising at least one of: metadata information associated with the first porous rock sample; and physical property information of the first porous rock sample corresponding to at least one further physical property of the first porous rock sample not derived from the digital image, wherein calculating the first property vector is further based on the metadata information and/or the physical property information of the first porous rock sample.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein: the metadata information comprises at least one of: global positioning system coordinates corresponding to an extraction locating of the first porous rock sample; a date of the extraction; a source reservoir of the first porous rock sample; and a rock type of the first porous rock sample, and the further physical properties comprise at least one of: mineralogy information, and chemical composition information.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one physical property comprises at least one of: a porosity, a tortuosity, a surface-to-volume ratio, and a pore-size distribution.
10. An apparatus, comprising at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to at least: calculate a first property vector indicative of at least one physical property derived from a digital image of a first porous rock sample; determine a set of one or more similar porous rock samples by calculating a value indicating a similarity between the first porous rock sample and each of one or more second porous rock samples based on the first property vector and one or more second property vectors associated with the one or more second porous rock samples; select a list of one or more fluid additives based on a comparison of existing enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values associated with the efficiency of the one or more fluid additives used with the one or more similar porous rock samples; perform, for each of the selected one or more fluid additives, a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of the first porous rock to determine a simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for each of the respective one or more fluid additives when used with the first porous rock sample; and output an optimal fluid additive for the first porous rock sample based at least in part on a combination of a comparison of the calculated similarity values, and a comparison of the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: receive an input comprising physical measurement information for the first porous rock sample corresponding to at least one fluid additives in the list; and determine an experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for the at least one fluid additive based on the physical measurement information.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein output of the optimal fluid additive for the first porous rock sample is further based on the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value and the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value are based on one or more of: relative permeability, velocity and pressure fields, sweep efficiency, oil left in place, and recovery percentage.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: recalculate the first property vector for the first porous rock sample using at least one of the experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values or the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values; and upload the recalculated first property vector to a database comprising the one or more second property vectors.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: select a further list of fluid additives for performing a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of a different porous rock sample, wherein the second list of additives is selected based at least in part on the recalculated first property vector.
16. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to receive a user input via an input of a user interface of a fluid additive advisor system comprising at least one of: metadata information associated with the first porous rock sample; and physical property information of the first porous rock sample corresponding to at least one further physical property of the first porous rock sample not derived from the digital image, wherein calculating the first property vector is further based on the metadata information and/or the physical property information of the first porous rock sample.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein: the metadata information comprises at least one of: global positioning system coordinates corresponding to an extraction locating of the first porous rock sample; a date of the extraction; a source reservoir of the first porous rock sample; and a rock type of the first porous rock sample, and the further physical properties comprise at least one of: mineralogy information, and chemical composition information.
18. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the at least one physical property comprises at least one of: a porosity, a tortuosity, a surface-to-volume ratio, and a pore-size distribution.
19. A computer program product for cognitive enhanced oil recovery, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a device to cause the device to: calculate a first property vector indicative of at least one physical property derived from a digital image of a first porous rock sample; determine a set of one or more similar porous rock samples by calculating a value indicating a similarity between the first porous rock sample and each of one or more second porous rock samples based on the first property vector and one or more second property vectors associated with the one or more second porous rock samples; select a list of one or more fluid additives based on a comparison of existing enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values associated with the efficiency of the one or more fluid additives used with the one or more similar porous rock samples; perform, for each of the selected one or more fluid additives, a simulation of a flow of fluid through a digital model of the first porous rock sample to determine a simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for each of the respective one or more fluid additives when used with porous rock associated with the first porous rock sample; and output an optimal fluid additive for the first porous rock sample based at least in part on a combination of a comparison of the calculated similarity values, and a comparison of the simulated enhanced fluid recovery efficiency values.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the program instructions further cause the device to: receive an input comprising physical measurement information for the first porous rock sample corresponding to at least one fluid additives in the list; and determine an experimental enhanced fluid recovery efficiency value for the at least one fluid additive based on the physical measurement information.
</claims>
</document>
