<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q40/08,G16H10/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Garavaglia, Jeremy
White, Nolan
Larson, John
Mudunuri, Achyutha Srinivas
Pharr, Jovonni Lee
Wilson, Kip
Taylor, Wallace
Aviles, Mike
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039875
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for analyzing captured biometric data
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system for analyzing biometric data of a user collected from a plurality of user devices and used to generate an insurance policy for the user includes a processor and a non-transitory, tangible, computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations including: (i) receiving, from a wearable electronic user device, biometric data associated with a user; (ii) analyzing, based upon a plurality of rules, the biometric data; (iii) determining a health score associated with the user, based in part upon the analysis of the biometric data, wherein the health score represents a likelihood that the user will maintain a level of health for a predefined period of time; (iv) retrieving terms and conditions for an insurance policy from a database based upon the health score; and (v) generating, based upon the determining, an insurance policy for the user based upon the terms and conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer system for analyzing biometric data of a user collected from a plurality of user devices and used to generate an insurance policy for the user, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory, tangible, computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a wearable electronic user device, biometric data associated with a user; analyzing, by applying a plurality of rules, the biometric data to assess a current level of health of the user; determining a health score associated with the user, based in part upon the analysis of the biometric data, wherein the health score represents a likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health for a predefined period of time corresponding to a term of a life insurance policy, and wherein the health score reflects improvements or deteriorations to an overall health of the user based upon the analysis; retrieving terms and conditions for an insurance policy from a database based upon the health score, the retrieved terms and conditions including the term of the insurance policy; and generating, based on the health score and the retrieved terms and conditions, an insurance policy associated with the current level of health of the user, wherein the retrieved-term of the insurance policy is based upon the predefined period of time during which the health score represents the likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising: receiving home data from a home based device; analyzing the home data; determining, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising: receiving vehicle data received from a vehicle based device; analyzing the vehicle data; determining, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising: receiving personal data for the user; analyzing the personal data; determining, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the biometric data includes at least one of skin temperature data, heart rate data, body mass index data, resting heart rate data, exercise intensity data, calories burned data, sleep duration data, REM sleep duration data, electrocardiogram data, VO2 max data, steps data, floors climbed data, blood pressure data, blood oxygen content data, weight data, and height data.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the home data includes at least one of environmental air quality data, home temperature data, ultraviolet radiation exposure data, carbon dioxide data, and carbon monoxide data.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein the vehicle data includes at least one of vehicle safety rating data and driving behavior data.
8. At least one tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by at least one processor, the computer-executable instructions cause the processor to: receive, from a wearable electronic user device, biometric data associated with a user; analyze, by applying a plurality of rules, the biometric data to assess a current level of health of the user; determine a health score associated with the user, based in part upon the analysis of the biometric data, wherein the health score represents a likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health for a predefined period of time corresponding to a term of a life insurance policy, and wherein the health score reflects improvements or deteriorations to an overall health of the user based upon the analysis; retrieve terms and conditions for an insurance policy from a database based upon the health score, the retrieved terms and conditions including the term of the insurance policy; and generate, based on the health score and the retrieved terms and conditions, an insurance policy associated with the current level of health of the user, wherein the term of the insurance policy is based upon the predefined period of time during which the health score represents the likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health.
9. The computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: receive home data from a home based device; analyze the home data; determine, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generate, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
10. The computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: receive vehicle data from a vehicle based device; analyze the vehicle data; determine, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generate, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
11. The computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: receive personal data for the user; analyze the personal data; determine, based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generate, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
12. The computer-readable storage media of claim 8, wherein the biometric data includes at least one of skin temperature data, heart rate data, body mass index data, resting heart rate data, exercise intensity data, calories burned data, sleep duration data, REM sleep duration data, electrocardiogram data, VO2 max data, steps data, floors climbed data, blood pressure data, blood oxygen content data, weight data, and height data.
13. The computer-readable storage media of claim 9, wherein the home data includes at least one of environmental air quality data, home temperature data, ultraviolet radiation exposure data, carbon dioxide data, and carbon monoxide data.
14. The computer-readable storage media of claim 10, wherein the vehicle data includes at least one of vehicle safety rating data and driving behavior data.
15. A method for analyzing biometric data of a user collected from a plurality of user devices and used to generate an insurance policy for the user comprising: receiving, by a processor and from a wearable electronic user device, biometric data associated with a user; analyzing, by the processor and by applying a plurality of rules, the biometric data to assess a current level of health of the user; determining, by the processor and based in part upon the analysis of the biometric data, a health score associated with the user, wherein the health score represents a likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health for a predefined period of time corresponding to a term of a life insurance policy, and wherein the health score reflects improvements or deteriorations to an overall health of the user based upon the analysis; retrieving, by the processor, terms and conditions for an insurance policy from a database based upon the health score, the retrieved terms and conditions including the term of the insurance policy; and generating, by the processor, based on the health score and the retrieved terms and conditions, an insurance policy associated with the current level of health of the user, wherein the term of the insurance policy is based upon the predefined period of time during which the health score represents the likelihood that the user will maintain the current level of health.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving, by the processor and from a home based device, home data; analyzing, by the processor, the home data; determining, by the processor and based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, by the processor and based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving, by the processor and from a vehicle based device, vehicle data; analyzing, by the processor, the vehicle data; determining, by the processor and based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, personal data for the user; analyzing, by the processor, the personal data; determining, by the processor and based upon the analyzing, the health score associated with the user; and generating, by the processor and based upon the determining, the insurance policy for the user.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein the biometric data includes at least one of skin temperature data, heart rate data, body mass index data, resting heart rate data, exercise intensity data, calories burned data, sleep duration data, REM sleep duration data, electrocardiogram data, VO2 max data, steps data, floors climbed data, blood pressure data, blood oxygen content data, weight data, and height data.
20. A computer system for analyzing biometric data of a user collected from a plurality of user devices and used to generate an insurance policy for the user, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory, tangible, computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: generating a life insurance policy for a user based upon an initial set of biometric data; receiving, from a wearable electronic device, updated biometric data associated with the user; analyzing, by applying a plurality of rules, the updated biometric data to assess an updated level of health of the user; determining, based in part upon the analysis of the updated biometric data, an updated health score associated with the user, wherein the updated health score represents an updated likelihood that the user will maintain the updated level of health for a predefined period of time corresponding to a term of a life insurance policy, and wherein the health score reflects improvements or deteriorations to an overall health of the user based upon the analysis; retrieving, based upon the determining, updated terms and conditions for an insurance policy from a database based upon the updated health score, the retrieved terms and conditions including the term of the insurance policy; and updating, based on the health score and the retrieved terms and conditions, the life insurance policy associated with the updated level of health of the user, wherein the term of the insurance policy is based upon the predefined period of time during which the health score represents the likelihood that the user will maintain the updated level of health.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the terms and conditions stored in the database are linked to a respective health score, and wherein the retrieved terms and conditions include the term of the insurance policy and an insurance premium proportional to the determined health score.
</claims>
</document>
