<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/04,A61B5/00,A61B5/01,A61B5/024,A61B5/05,A61B5/07,A61B5/107,A61B5/11,A61B90/30,G01C22/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CONSENSUS ORTHOPEDICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KATERBERG, BRIAN JAMES
WIEDENHOEFER, CURT
CREEL, JUSTIN ANTHONY
HOWARD, JOSHUA DALE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58719385
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and methods for monitoring physical therapy and rehabilitation of joints
</title>

<abstract>
A system for monitoring a patient includes a sensor unit having a housing and sensors disposed in or around the housing; and a base having a shell and configured and arranged to be adhesively attached to skin of the patient. The sensors can be used to monitor physical therapy and rehabilitation of the patient. The sensor unit can provide information to a patient or clinician device to facilitate the monitoring. The sensor data can be used to determine measurements such as tilt angle of the sensor unit and range of motion measurements (such as extension, flexion, or forces associated with movement) of the anatomical region to which the sensor unit is attached. The sensor data can also be used for automated identification or classification of exercises performed by the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by Letters Patent of the United States is:
1. A system for monitoring a patient, the system comprising: a sensor unit configured and arranged to be disposed on or within the patient, the sensor unit comprising a first housing, an accelerometer disposed in the first housing, and a wireless communication arrangement disposed in the first housing; and a patient device configured and arranged for communication with the sensor unit, the patient device comprising a second housing, a display on the second housing, a tilt angle sensor disposed in the second housing, a memory disposed in the second housing, and a processor disposed in the second housing and coupled to the display and memory, wherein the processor is configured and arranged for performing actions comprising: determining a tilt angle of the patient device, when the patient device is sitting on a thigh of the patient, using the tilt angle sensor of the patient device; obtaining a tilt angle of the sensor unit disposed on a portion of a leg of the patient below a knee of the patient; and determining an extension or flexion of the knee of the patient using the tilt angle of the patient device and the tilt angle of the sensor unit.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the extension or flexion comprises determining a maximum flexion of the knee using the tilt angle of the sensor unit at a maximum forward extension of the knee.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the extension or flexion comprises determining a maximum extension of the knee using the tilt angle of the sensor unit at a maximum backward extension of the knee.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the actions further comprise determining an estimated quadricep force using the tilt angle of the sensor unit.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising a base configured to receive the sensor unit, the base comprising a shell and adhesive disposed on a bottom surface of the shell, wherein the shell is configured to removably grip the sensor unit when the sensor unit is inserted into the shell.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the sensor unit is configured to actuate into an active mode when inserted into the shell and to actuate into an inactive or standby mode when removed from the shell.
7. A system for monitoring a patient, the system comprising: at least one sensor unit configured and arranged to be disposed on or within the patient, the at least one sensor unit, in combination, comprising at least two accelerometers and a communication arrangement; and a patient device configured and arranged for communication with the at least one sensor unit, the patient device comprising a display, a memory, and a processor coupled to the display and memory, wherein the processor is configured and arranged for performing actions comprising: during performance of an exercise, obtaining a pivot point distance using the at least two accelerometers of the at least one sensor unit; comparing the obtained pivot point distance with pre-determined pivot point distances for a plurality of exercises; and based on the comparison, identifying the exercise being performed as a one of the plurality of exercises.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein obtaining the pivot point distance comprises obtaining the pivot point distance that has been determined by the processor of at least one of the at least one sensor unit.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein obtaining the pivot point distance comprises obtaining at least one position value from each of two of the accelerometers and calculating the pivot point distance from the obtained position values.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein obtaining a pivot point distance comprises obtaining an average pivot point distance over a period of time.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the pre-determined pivot point distances for the plurality of exercises are average pivot point distances for the plurality of exercises for a population of patients.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the pre-determined pivot point distances for the plurality of exercises are determined from one or more anatomical measurements of the patient.
13. The system of claim 7, wherein the actions further comprising determining a number of repetitions of the exercise being performed.
14. A system for monitoring a patient, the system comprising: at least one sensor unit configured and arranged to be disposed on or within the patient, the at least one sensor unit, in combination, comprising at least two accelerometers and a communication arrangement; and a patient device configured and arranged for communication with the at least one sensor unit, the patient device comprising a display, a memory, and a processor coupled to the display and memory, wherein the processor is configured and arranged for performing actions comprising: a) predicting average pivot point distances for a plurality of exercises; b) during performance of a one of the exercises, obtaining a pivot point distance using the at least two accelerometers of the at least one sensor unit; c) using the predicted average pivot point distances, identifying the exercise being performed; and d) refining the predicted average pivot point distance for the exercise being performed with the obtained pivot point distance.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the actions further comprise repeating steps b)-d) for the one of the exercises, using the refined predicted average pivot point distance instead of the predicted average pivot point distance.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the actions further comprise repeating steps b)-d) for an additional one or more of the exercises.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein obtaining the pivot point distance comprises obtaining the pivot point distance that has been determined by the processor of at least one of the at least one sensor unit.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein obtaining the pivot point distance comprises obtaining at least one position value from each of two of the accelerometers and calculating the pivot point distance from the obtained position values.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the actions further comprise obtaining anatomical information for the patient, wherein predicting average pivot point distances for a plurality of exercises comprises predicting the average pivot point distances for the plurality of exercises using the anatomical information.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the anatomical information comprises a height of the patient.
</claims>
</document>
