<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06K9/42,G06K9/44,G06T7/00,G06T7/10,G16C20/20,G16C20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS MEDICAL SOLUTIONS USA
NAIK, SANDESH
ROY, ARUNABHA
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAIK, SANDESH
ROY, ARUNABHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68724940
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for determining radiopharmaceutical compounds used in medical imaging
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for determining a radiopharmaceutical compound in a medical image is disclosed. In one embodiment, the method includes obtaining the medical image from a medical imaging device through an interface. The method also includes identifying a region of interest in the medical image. The method further includes generating a feature vector associable with the region of interest. Additionally, the method includes detecting an uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound in the region of interest. Furthermore, the method includes identifying a type of the radiopharmaceutical compound in the region of interest based on the feature vector and a biological information associated with the region of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a radiopharmaceutical compound used in a medical image, the method comprising: obtaining the medical image from a source through an interface; identifying a region of interest in the medical image; generating a feature vector associable with the region of interest; detecting an uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound in the region of interest; and identifying a type of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the feature vector and a biological information associated with the region of interest, wherein the identifying of the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound is based on the uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound within an anatomical region being markedly different in comparison to other radiopharmaceutical compounds in the anatomical region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the region of interest comprises determining a region in the medical image exhibiting presence of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the biological information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biological information comprises one or more of an anatomical region and a known variation associated with the radiopharmaceutical compound for the region of interest.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein in the identifying of the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound, the method further comprises: determining the biological information associable with the region of interest; determining from the feature vector an identification characteristic associable with the radiopharmaceutical compound; and identifying the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the one or more of the identification characteristic and the biological information.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: normalizing the feature vector to be spatial-scale and intensity independent.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a location of the region of interest corresponds to a location of a structural or anatomical region within an imaged organ.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is a positron-emission tomography image or a single-photon emission computed tomography image.
8. A system for determining a radiopharmaceutical compound in a medical image, the system comprising: a processing unit; a medical database coupled to the processing unit; a memory coupled to the processing unit, the memory comprising an identification module configured to: obtain the medical image from a source through an interface; identify a region of interest in the medical image; generate a feature vector associable with the region of interest; detect an uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound in the region of interest; and identify a type of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the feature vector and a biological information associated with the region of interest, wherein the identifying of the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound is based on the uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound within an anatomical region being markedly different in comparison to other radiopharmaceutical compounds in the anatomical region.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein in the identifying of the region of interest, the identification module is configured to determine a region in the medical image exhibiting a presence of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the biological information.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein in the identifying the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound, the identification module is further configured to: determine the biological information associable with the region of interest; determine from the feature vector an identification characteristic associable with the radiopharmaceutical compound; and identify the type of radiopharmaceutical compound based on the one or more of the identification characteristic and the biological information.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the identification module is further configured to normalize the feature vector to be spatial-scale and intensity independent.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein a location of the region of interest corresponds to a location of a structural or anatomical region within an imaged organ.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the medical image is a positron-emission tomography image, a computed tomography image, or a magnetic resonance imaging image.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having machine-readable instructions stored therein, that when executed by a server, cause the server to: obtain a medical image from a source through an interface; identify a region of interest in the medical image; generate a feature vector associable with the region of interest; detect an uptake of a radiopharmaceutical compound in the region of interest; and identify a type of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the feature vector and a biological information associated with the region of interest, wherein the identifying of the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound is based on the uptake of the radiopharmaceutical compound within an anatomical region being markedly different in comparison to other radiopharmaceutical compounds in the anatomical region.
15. The storage medium of claim 14, wherein, in the identification of the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound, the instructions cause the server to: determine the biological information associable with the region of interest; determine from the feature vector an identification characteristic associable with the radiopharmaceutical compound; and identify the type of the radiopharmaceutical compound based on the one or more of the identification characteristic and the biological information.
16. The storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the server to: normalize the feature vector to be spatial-scale and intensity independent.
17. The storage medium of claim 16, wherein a location of the region of interest corresponds to a location of a structural or anatomical region within an imaged organ.
</claims>
</document>
