<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHRISTENSEN, SCOTT T.
FARRIS, SCOTT
HAYWARD, GREGORY L.
KONRARDY, BLAKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63014052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Autonomous vehicle refueling
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for autonomous vehicle recharging or refueling are disclosed. Autonomous vehicles may be automatically refueled by routing the vehicles to available fueling stations when not in operation, according to methods described herein. A fuel level within a tank of an autonomous vehicle may be monitored until it reaches a refueling threshold, at which point an on-board computer may generate a predicted use profile for the vehicle. Based upon the predicted use profile, a time and location for the vehicle to refuel the vehicle may be determined. In some embodiments, the vehicle may be controlled to automatically travel to a fueling station, refill a fuel tank, and return to its starting location in order to refuel when not in use.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automatically refueling an autonomous vehicle, comprising: generating, by one or more processors, a predicted use profile for the autonomous vehicle based upon prior vehicle use data; determining, by the one or more processors, a time and a location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle based upon a fuel level and the predicted use profile; controlling, by the one or more processors, the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location at the determined time; causing, by the one or more processors, one or more fuel tanks of the autonomous vehicle to be fully or partially filled at the location; determining, by the one or more processors, a return location for the autonomous vehicle based upon the predicted use profile; and controlling, by the one or more processors, the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the return location.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determined time is a time when the autonomous vehicle is not predicted to be in use based upon the predicted use profile.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: determining, using one or more sensors disposed within the autonomous vehicle, a fuel level of one or more fuel tanks of the autonomous vehicle.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining the fuel level further comprises determining the fuel level as an estimate of a maximum remaining use based upon a measurement of an amount of fuel remaining in the one or more fuel tanks.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein: determining the fuel level further comprises determining the fuel level when the autonomous vehicle is in use; the predicted use profile includes one or more predicted breaks in vehicle operation, each predicted break being associated with a break time and a break location; and wherein determining the time and location at which to refuel further comprises determining the time and location based upon the one or more predicted breaks.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processors, that the fuel level is below a maximum refueling threshold, and wherein: the predicted use profile indicates a next predicted use of the autonomous vehicle, and the time and location are determined when (i) the fuel level is below the maximum refueling threshold and (ii) sufficient time exists to refuel to autonomous vehicle before the next predicted use.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the return location is determined based upon the predicted use profile and is distinct from a prior location from which the autonomous vehicle travels to the location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, using one or more geolocation components within the autonomous vehicle, a current location of the autonomous vehicle; accessing, by the one or more processors, map data containing map information regarding a plurality of road segments, the map information including location data associated with each road segment and an indication of suitability for autonomous operation feature use associated with each road segment; and identifying, by the one or more processors, a route consisting of one or more road segments from the plurality of road segments between the current location and the location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle, wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location includes controlling the autonomous vehicle along the identified route.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the predicted use profile indicates a plurality of use periods and use locations over at least one day.
10. A computer system for automatically refueling an autonomous vehicle, comprising: one or more processors disposed within the autonomous vehicle; one or more sensors disposed within the autonomous vehicle and communicatively connected to the one or more processors; and a program memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: generate a predicted use profile for the autonomous vehicle based upon prior vehicle use data; determine a time and a location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle based upon a fuel level and the predicted use profile; control the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location at the determined time; cause one or more fuel tanks of the autonomous vehicle to be fully or partially filled at the location; determine a return location for the autonomous vehicle based upon the predicted use profile; and control the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the return location.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the program memory further stores executable instructions that cause the computer system to determine the fuel level as an estimate of a maximum remaining use based upon a measurement of an amount of fuel remaining in the one or more fuel tanks.
12. The computer system of claim 10, wherein program memory further stores executable instructions that cause the computer system to determine the determined time at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle as a time when the autonomous vehicle is not predicted to be in use based upon the predicted use profile.
13. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the program memory further stores executable instructions that cause the computer system to determine the fuel level by: determining the fuel level when the autonomous vehicle is not in use; and determining the fuel level based upon a measurement of an amount of fuel remaining in the one or more fuel tanks when the autonomous vehicle was most recently in use.
14. The computer system of claim 10, wherein: the one or more sensors include one or more geolocation components within the autonomous vehicle; and the executable instructions further cause the computer system to: identify a current location of the autonomous vehicle using the one or more geolocation components; access map data containing map information regarding a plurality of road segments, the map information including location data associated with each road segment and an indication of suitability for autonomous operation feature use associated with each road segment; and identify a route consisting of one or more road segments from the plurality of road segments between the current location and the location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle, wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location includes controlling the autonomous vehicle along the identified route.
15. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing executable instructions for automatically refueling an autonomous vehicle that, when executed by at least one processor of a computer system, cause the computer system to: generate a predicted use profile for the autonomous vehicle based upon prior vehicle use data; determine a time and a location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle based upon a fuel level and the predicted use profile; control the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location at the determined time; cause one or more fuel tanks of the autonomous vehicle to be fully or partially filled at the location; determine a return location for the autonomous vehicle based upon the predicted use profile; and control the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the return location.
16. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions cause the computer system to determine the fuel level as an estimate of a maximum remaining use based upon a measurement of an amount of fuel remaining in the one or more fuel tanks.
17. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions cause the computer system to determine the determined time as a time when the autonomous vehicle is not predicted to be in use based upon the predicted use profile.
18. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the executable instructions cause the computer system to determine the fuel level by: determining the fuel level when the autonomous vehicle is not in use; and determining the fuel level based upon a measurement of an amount of fuel remaining in the one or more fuel tanks when the autonomous vehicle was most recently in use.
19. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, further storing instructions that cause the computer system to: identify a current location of the autonomous vehicle using one or more geolocation components within the autonomous vehicle; access map data containing map information regarding a plurality of road segments, the map information including location data associated with each road segment and an indication of suitability for autonomous operation feature use associated with each road segment; and identify a route consisting of one or more road segments from the plurality of road segments between the current location and the location at which to refuel the autonomous vehicle, wherein controlling the autonomous vehicle to travel fully autonomously to the determined location includes controlling the autonomous vehicle along the identified route.
20. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the predicted use profile indicates a plurality of use periods and use locations over at least one day.
</claims>
</document>
