<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELEKTA INSTRUMENT
ELEKTA INSTRUMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
NORDSTROM, HAKAN
SOMELL, BJOERN
RIAD, STELLA
SJÖLUND, JENS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65493919
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods for inverse planning
</title>

<abstract>
In the field of radiotherapy, methods for dose or treatment planning for a radiotherapy system are disclosed, wherein a spatial dose delivered can be adjusted and delivered radiation is determined using an optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation according to a frame description reflecting criteria for regions of interest that include at least one of targets to be treated during treatment of the patient, organs at risk and/or healthy tissue. The method includes estimating a voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, which voxel set includes voxels from at least one target volume. Further, a low dose voxel set is determined and a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel set is provided where voxels receiving a dose exceeding a predetermined threshold value is penalized such that the dose delivered to the low dose voxel set is suppressed. The frame description is then used in the optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for treatment planning in radiotherapy, wherein delivered radiation is determined using an optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation according to objectives reflecting criteria for regions of interest, that include at least one of: at least one target to be treated during treatment of the patient, organs at risk and/or healthy tissue, said method comprising the steps of: estimating a voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, said voxel set including voxels from at least one target volume; determining a low dose voxel set; providing a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel set, wherein according to the frame description, the dose delivered to the low dose voxel set is suppressed; and using said frame description in the optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation.
2. A method for treatment planning for a radiotherapy system, the radiotherapy system comprising a radiotherapy unit, wherein a spatial dose delivered can be changed by adjusting beam shape settings, wherein delivered radiation is determined using an optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation according to objectives reflecting criteria for regions of interest, that include at least one of: at least one target to be treated during treatment of the patient, organs at risk and/or healthy tissue, said method comprising the steps of: estimating a voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, said voxel set including voxels from at least one target volume; determining a low dose voxel set; providing a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel set, wherein according to the frame description voxels receiving a dose exceeding a predetermined threshold value is penalized such that the dose delivered to the low dose voxel set is suppressed; and using said frame description in the optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method is for treatment planning for a radiotherapy system, the radiotherapy system comprising a radiotherapy unit having a fixed radiation focus point, said method further comprising the steps of: estimating a voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, said voxel set including at least one target volume; determining a low dose voxel set; providing a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel set, wherein according to the frame description voxels receiving a dose exceeding a predetermined threshold value is penalized such that the dose delivered to the low dose voxel is suppressed; and using said frame description in the optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining a first estimate of the low dose voxel set; performing at least one optimization with either weight settings to be used in a final optimization or with standardized weight settings; based on the optimized dose distribution in a preceding optimization step, updating the low dose voxel set defined as the volume between two dose levels; modifying the objective function according to updated low dose voxel set; and performing a final optimization using the updated low dose voxel set and modified objective function from the preceding optimization.
5. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: determining a first estimate of the low dose voxel set; performing at least one optimization with either weight settings to be used in a final optimization or with standardized weight settings; based on the optimized dose distribution in a preceding optimization step, updating the low dose voxel set defined as the volume between two dose levels; modifying the objective function according to updated low dose voxel set; and performing a final optimization using the updated low dose voxel set and modfied objective function from the preceding optimization.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising the step of estimating a dose distribution.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the dose distribution is estimated by estimating the dose distribution outside each target independently or estimating a combined dose distribution outside the targets.
8. The method according to claim 1, further including determining a low dose voxel set by applying predetermined dose distributions.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein the step of determining a low dose voxel set by applying predetermined dose distributions includes: calculating a first shell surface outside said voxel set based on a dose level that is higher than said threshold dose level; calculating a second shell surface outside said voxel set based on a dose level that is lower than said threshold dose level; and defining the low dose voxel set as the voxel set between said first and second shell surfaces.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein calculating the first shell surface outside said voxel set includes uniformly contracting an outer surface of the voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein calculating the second shell surface outside said voxel set includes uniformly expanding an outer surface of the voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level.
12. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: finding the isocenter locations; determining the shot collimator configurations for all isocenter locations; setting dose to be delivered to the at least one target including determining irradiation times for all shots to be delivered; and calculating a dose distribution based on the determined shot configurations and dose to be delivered.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the calculating steps include applying a distance model according to: where Q may be a constant or include geometry factors and/or dose distribution factors, Vad is the volume of the voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, and where δr corresponds to the expanded or contracted distance of the outer surface of the voxel set.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the calculating steps include applying a distance model according to: wherein DF,ad is the isodose in the voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, δD is the predetermined dose distribution variation, Vad is voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level.
15. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating dose profiles for specific treatment configurations including beam shape settings for the radiation dose profiles using said optimization problem; creating treatment plans including determining the radiation dose profiles to be delivered during treatment based on the treatment configurations, wherein each radiation dose profile is modelled by a spatial dose volume distribution of radiation, the shape of said spatial distribution depending on the beam shape settings; and selecting an optimal treatment plan that satisfies the criteria.
16. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: calculating dose rates for specific treatment configurations including sector and collimator settings and irradiation time for the isocenters using said optimization problem; creating treatment plans including determining shots to be delivered during treatment based on the treatment configurations, wherein each shot is modelled by a spatial dose volume distribution of radiation, the shape of said spatial distribution depending on the specific sector and collimator setting and irradiation time; and selecting an optimal treatment plan that satisfies the criteria.
17. The method according to claim 16, further comprising: defining a set of beam directions; modelling radiation dose profiles to be delivered to said target as a plurality of beamlets each having a beamlet intensity; setting a number of objectives reflecting criteria for the target; providing an optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation according to the objectives so as to create fluence maps, wherein the fluence maps define the beamlet intensities for each of said beamlets; creating treatment plans based on fluence maps and criteria for the target; and selecting an optimal treatment plan that satisfies the criteria.
18. The method according to claim 1, further comprising positioning of radiation source(s) relative to said patient.
19. The method according to claim 18, wherein the step of positioning radiation source(s) includes generating fixed isocenter positions.
20. The method according to claim 18, wherein the radiation source positions are generated as a set of continuous points in said target volume based on basis functions, wherein the points are fixed during the treatment planning.
21. The method according to claim 1, wherein said objectives include delivered dose to target, delivered dose to a boundary space surrounding said target, delivered dose to regions classified as a risk organ, and/or beam-on time penalization.
22. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining a low dose voxel set includes determining the low dose voxel set using a trained machine learning model.
23. A treatment planning computer structure for treatment planning for radiotherapy, wherein delivered radiation is determined using an optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation according to a frame description reflecting criteria for regions of interest, that include at least one of: at least one target to be treated during treatment of the patient, organs at risk and/or healthy tissue, comprising: a low dose volume calculating module for calculating a low dose volume by estimating a voxel volume set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined boundary dose level, the voxel volume set including at least one target volume, determining a low dose voxel volume set by applying predetermined varied dose distributions and applying a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel volume set where voxels receiving a dose exceeding a predetermined threshold value is penalized such that the dose delivered to the low dose voxel volume is suppressed; and a calculation module configured for generating radiation dose profiles to be delivered to the target, for providing a convex optimization problem including the frame description for the low dose volume that steers the delivered radiation according to the objectives, and for calculating dose profiles for specific treatment configurations using the convex optimization problem.
24. The treatment planning computer structure according to claim 23, further comprising: a treatment plan module is configured for creating treatment plans including determining the radiation dose profiles to be delivered during treatment based on the treatment configurations, wherein each radiation dose profile is modelled by a spatial dose volume distribution of radiation, the shape of the spatial distribution depending on the beam shape settings; and an optimizing module is configured for selecting an optimal treatment plan that satisfies the criteria.
25. The treatment planning computer structure according to claim 23, wherein the low dose volume calculating module is configured to execute the steps of: estimating a voxel set receiving a higher dose than a predetermined threshold dose level, said voxel set including voxels from at least one target volume; determining a low dose voxel set; providing a frame description for the voxels in the low dose voxel set, wherein according to the frame description, the dose delivered to the low dose voxel set is suppressed; and using said frame description in the optimization problem that steers the delivered radiation.
</claims>
</document>
