<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANDIGA, SANDEEP RAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70327370
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for transferring control of an unmanned aerial vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for transferring control of drones from one computing device to another during flight are disclosed. An example method may include accepting, by a drone control module of a computing device, a destination associated with a user. The method may further include establishing, by the drone control module, a channel of communication with a user device of the user. Thereafter, the drone control module may launch the drone from a first location. The method may further include transmitting, by the drone control module, control data for the drone to the user device via the channel of communication. The method may continue with transferring, by the drone control module, an operational control of the drone to the user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: accepting, by a drone control module of a computing device, a destination associated with a user; establishing, by the drone control module, a channel of communication with a user device of the user; launching, by the drone control module, the drone from a first location; transmitting, by the drone control module, control data for the drone to the user device via the channel of communication; and transferring, by the drone control module, an operational control of the drone to the user device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the drone control module, user data associated with the user; and determining, by the drone control module and based on the user data, that the user is able to control the drone.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, by the drone control module to the user device, a request to control the drone; and receiving, by the drone control module from the user device, an acceptance of the request to control the drone, wherein the control data for the drone is transmitted to the user device in response to receiving the acceptance of the request to control the drone.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the control data comprises drone data and instructions for controlling the drone.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the drone control module, that the user device is capable of controlling the drone.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the transferring the operational control of the drone to the user device comprises: receiving, by the drone control module, from the user device, drone control commands, wherein the drone control commands are configured to control at least one operational parameter of the drone; and transmitting, by the drone control module, the drone control commands to the drone.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the drone is configured to deliver at least one item to the destination, the method further comprising: capturing a current picture of the user controlling the drone; comparing the current picture of the user to a stored picture of the user to determine that the current picture of the user is a facial recognition match to the stored picture; and delivering, based on a positive determination of the facial recognition match, the at least one item to the destination.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the drone control module, that the drone has reached the destination; and transferring, by the drone control module, the operational control of the drone from the user device to the drone control module to return the drone from the destination to the first location.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting routing data of the drone from the first location to the destination, wherein the routing data is stored to a database to enable a future autonomous flight of the drone to the destination.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the routing data comprises one or more of: a global positioning system location of the drone, an altitude of the drone, a picture of the destination, and a video of the destination.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the drone control module, that the drone has previously delivered at least one item to the destination; retrieving, by the drone control module, the routing data associated with the destination from the database; and instructing, by the drone control module and based on the routing data, the drone to autonomously fly to the destination.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving, by the drone control module, a current image of the destination; comparing, by the drone control module, the current image to a stored image of the destination; retrieving, by the drone control module and based on a match of the current image and the stored image, the routing data associated with the destination from the database; and instructing, by the drone control module and based on the routing data, the drone to autonomously fly to the destination.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the drone control module, that a predetermined emergency condition occurred at the drone while the drone is under the operational control of the user device; and transferring, by the drone control module and based on the determination of the occurrence of the predetermined emergency condition, the operational control of the drone from the user device to the drone control module.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the predetermined emergency condition includes one of: a request of the user to transfer the operational control to the drone control module, mishandling the drone by the user, and capturing via a camera of the drone a predetermined condition for the transferring of the operational control to the drone control module.
15. A method comprising: accepting, by a drone control module of a computing device, a destination associated with a user; establishing, by the drone control module, a channel of communication with a user device of the user; launching, by the drone control module, the drone from a first location; transmitting, by the drone control module, control data for the drone to the user device via the channel of communication; and transferring, by the drone control module, an operational control of the drone to the user device, wherein the transferring the operational control of the drone to the user device comprises: receiving, by the drone control module, from the user device, drone control commands, wherein the drone control commands are configured to control at least one operational parameter of the drone; and transmitting, by the drone control module, the drone control commands to the drone.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: determining, by the drone control module, that a predetermined emergency condition occurred at the drone while the drone is under the operational control of the user device; and transferring, by the drone control module and based on the determination of the occurrence of the predetermined emergency condition, the operational control of the drone from the user device to the drone control module.
</claims>
</document>
