<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G10L15/08,G10L15/22,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOUGLAS, MICHAEL
YAVAGAL, DEEPAK SURESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70612815
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wake word detection configuration
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for wake word detection configuration are disclosed. An electronic device may be configured to detect a wake word in a user utterance based on one or more wake word models. Upon detection, wake word APIs may be utilized to determine if a speech-processing application associated with a remote speech-processing system is installed on the device. If installed, secondary wake word detection may be performed on the audio data representing the user utterance, and if the wake word is detected, the audio data may be sent to the remote system for processing. If not installed, a display of the electronic device may present options for downloading the speech-processing application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and computer-readable media storing first computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a digital-signal-processor component residing on an electronic device configured with a microphone to capture audio representing a first user utterance and generate corresponding first audio data, a first indication that a digital signal processor associated with the digital-signal processor application has detected a wake word from the first audio data; determining that a speech-processing application associated with a remote speech-processing system is absent from the electronic device; causing the electronic device to install the speech-processing application; receiving, from the digital-signal-processor component, a second indication that the digital signal processor has detected the wake word from second audio data corresponding to a second user utterance; determining that the speech-processing application is installed on the electronic device; receiving, from the digital signal processor, the second audio data; and in response to determining that the speech-processing application has been installed, sending the audio data to the speech-processing application for speech processing by the remote speech-processing system.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising the speech-processing application, wherein the speech-processing application is configured with second computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving the second audio data; determining that at least a portion of the second audio data represents the wake word to a threshold confidence level; in response to determining that the at least the portion of the second audio data represents the wake word, sending the audio data to the remote speech-processing system for speech processing; and receiving, from the remote speech-processing system, a response associated with the second audio data.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising the speech-processing application, wherein the speech-processing application is configured with second computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving input data representing an input associated with a control setting displayed using the speech-processing application, the input indicating selection of an option to disable wake word detection by the electronic device; sending, using the speech-processing application and based at least in part on receiving the input data, an instruction to disable the wake word detection to the digital-signal-processor component; causing, using the digital-signal-processor component and based at least in part on the instruction, the wake word detection to be disabled.
4. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising receiving, from the speech-processing application and at the digital-signal-processor component, wake word enrollment data indicating the wake word to be enrolled for wake word detection.
5. A method, comprising: receiving, from a first application associated with an electronic device, a first indication that a wake word has been detected from first audio data representing a first user utterance; determining, using the first application, that a second application associated with a speech-processing system is absent from the electronic device; and based at least in part on determining that the second application is absent from the electronic device, causing the electronic device to install the second application.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, from the first application and at the second application, second audio data; determining, using the second application, that a portion of the second audio data represents the wake word; based at least in part on determining that the portion of the second audio data represents the wake word, sending, using the second application, the second audio data to the speech-processing system; and receiving, from the speech-processing system, a response associated with the second audio data.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving input data representing an input associated with the control setting displayed using the second application, the input indicating selection of an option to disable wake word detection by the electronic device; sending, using the second application and based at least in part on receiving the input data, an instruction to disable the wake word detection to the first application; causing, using the first application and based at least in part on the instruction, the wake word detection to be disabled.
8. The method of claim 5, further comprising receiving, from the second application and at the first application, wake word enrollment data indicating the wake word to be enrolled for wake word detection.
9. The method of claim 5, wherein causing the electronic device to install the second application comprises causing the electronic device to install the second application based at least in part on receiving input data representing input associated with a notification that the second application is to be downloaded to facilitate speech processing, the notification associated with a selectable portion that, when selected, causes an application store to be presented that is configured to facilitate downloading of the second application.
10. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving second audio data representing a second user utterance; receiving, from the second application, a second indication that the second audio data does not include the wake word to a threshold confidence level; and based at least in part on receiving the second indication, causing the second audio data to be removed from the electronic device.
11. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving input data representing an input associated with a request to enable wake word detection by the electronic device; and wherein causing the electronic device to install the second application is based at least in part on receiving the input data.
12. The method of claim 5, further comprising: identifying status data associated with the electronic device, the status data including at least one of: capability data indicating that the electronic device is hands-free capable; wake word detection state data indicating that wake word detection is enabled or disabled on the electronic device; or language data indicating a language that the electronic device is configured to operate in; and sending, to the second application, the status data.
13. A device, comprising: a digital signal processor configured to receive audio data representing a user utterance; a wake word engine configured to: cause the digital signal processor to detect, from the audio data, a wake word; and send, to a wake word client, an indication that the wake word has been detected; the wake word client configured to: determine that a second application associated with a speech-processing system is absent from the device; and based at least in part on the second application being absent from the electronic device, cause the device to install the second application.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the audio data comprises first audio data, the user utterance comprises a first user utterance, and wherein: the digital signal processor is further configured to receive second audio data representing a second user utterance; the wake word engine is further configured to: cause the digital signal processor to detect, from the second audio data, the wake word; and send, to the wake word client, the indication that the wake word has been detected; the wake word client is further configured to: determine that the second application is installed on the device; and based at least in part on determining that the second application has been installed, send the second audio data to the second application.
15. The device of claim 14, further comprising the second application, wherein the second application is configured with computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from the first application, second audio data; determining that a portion of the second audio data represents the wake word to a threshold confidence level; based at least in part on determining that the portion of the second audio data represents the wake word, sending the second audio data to the speech-processing system; and receiving, from the speech-processing system, a response associated with the second audio data.
16. The device of claim 13, the wake word client further configured to receive, from the second application, wake word enrollment data indicating the wake word to be enrolled for wake word detection.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein causing the device to install the second application comprises causing the device to install the second application based at least in part on receiving input data representing input associated with a notification that the second application is to be downloaded to facilitate speech processing, the notification associated with a selectable portion that, when selected, causes an application store to be presented that is configured to facilitate downloading of the second application.
18. The device of claim 13, wherein the indication comprises a first indication, and the wake word engine further configured to: receive, from the second application, a second indication that second audio data does not include the wake word to a threshold confidence level; and based at least in part on receiving the second indication, causing the second audio data to be removed from the device.
19. The device of claim 13, wherein the indication comprises a first indication, and the wake word client further configured to: receiving input data representing an input associated with a request to enable wake word detection by the electronic device; and wherein causing the device to install the second application is based at least in part on receiving the input data.
20. The device of claim 13, the wake word client further configured to: send, to the second application, status data associated with the device, the status data including at least one of: capability data indicating that the device is hands-free capable; wake word detection state data indicating that wake word detection is enabled or disabled on the device; or language data indicating a language that the device is configured to operate in; and sending, to the second application, the status data.
</claims>
</document>
