<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01H71/04,H01H71/74,H01H89/00,H01H9/16,H01H9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
HONG, JUNHO
SHIN, KEE HO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64401769
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for hardware tamper detection and mitigation for solid state circuit breaker and its controller
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for hardware tamper detection and mitigation for a circuit breaker. The method includes detecting and mitigating a breach to a circuit breaker of an electrical power management system, wherein the circuit breaker includes a housing, an electrical circuit, and switch coupled to and controllable by the electrical circuit. An alert identifying a detected breach event at the circuit breaker is generated and transmitted to a computing device. The circuit breaker device experiencing the detected breach event is disabled in response to the alert. An electrical power management system includes a plurality of circuit breakers each having a breach detector coupled to an electrical circuit, and a switch coupled to and controllable by the electrical circuit. A circuit breaker controller controls the state of the circuit breaker as determined by the breach detector.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting and mitigating a breach to a circuit breaker device having a housing, an electrical circuit, and switch coupled to and controllable by the electrical circuit, the method comprising: evaluating a plurality of breach event indicators including (a) an indicator of a first type of breach event indicating a breach of the housing and (b) an indicator of a second type of breach event indicating a breach of a circuit board; in response to an affirmative evaluation of any of the plurality of breach event indicators, detecting a breach event; generating an alert identifying the detected breach event; transmitting the alert to a computing device; and disabling a remote access capability of the circuit breaker in response to the breach event.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the plurality of breach event indicators includes an indicator of a third type of breach event indicating a software breach.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the generating the alert includes generating an electrical signal configured to identify the type of access event.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the transmitting the alert includes transmitting the alert through a wired communication or a wireless communication.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising responding to the transmitted alert by transmitting a control signal to the electrical circuit of the circuit breaker device through the wired communication or the wireless communication.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the transmitting an alert includes transmitting the alert to a computing device of one of a manufacturer of the circuit breaker device, an installer of the circuit breaker device, and a user of the circuit breaker device.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the circuit breaker device includes one of a mechanical circuit breaker, a solid state circuit breaker, and a combined mechanical and solid state circuit breaker.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the indicator of the first type of breach event indicates that an un-authorized housing opening has occurred.
9. A method of detecting and mitigating a breach to one of a plurality of circuit breaker devices of an electrical power management system, wherein each of the plurality of circuit breaker devices includes a housing, an electrical circuit, and switch coupled to and controllable by the electrical circuit, the method comprising: evaluating a plurality of breach event indicators including (a) a first type of breach indicator indicating a housing breach and (b) a second type of breach indicator indicating a circuit board breach; in response to an affirmative evaluation of any of the plurality of breach event indicators, detecting a breach event; generating an alert identifying the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices experiencing the detected breach event; transmitting the generated alert by a wireless communication link to a computing device; and disabling a remote access capability of the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices experiencing the detected breach event.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising receiving from the computing device an instruction to disable the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices by one of: i) disabling a remote access mode of the circuit breaker; and ii) determining a local access mode of the circuit breaker.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the disabling the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices includes disabling the remote access mode of the one circuit breaker.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein the disabling the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices includes disabling a remote access mode and enabling a local access mode of the circuit breaker.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein the disabling the one of the plurality of circuit breaker devices includes disabling both a remote access mode and a local access mode and wherein the circuit breaker operates only in the event of an overcurrent condition.
14. The method of claim 9 wherein the plurality of breach event indicators includes an indicator of a software breach.
15. An electrical power management system comprising: a plurality of circuit breakers, wherein each of the circuit breakers includes a housing, an electrical circuit, a breach detector coupled to the electrical circuit to detect a breach event of the respective circuit breaker, and a switch coupled to and controllable by the electrical circuit; a communication line operatively connected to each of the electrical circuits of each of the plurality of circuit breakers; a circuit breaker controller, operatively connected to the communication line; and a network communication router, operatively connected to the communication line and adapted to communicate with an internet based computing service; wherein the breach detector is adapted to evaluate a plurality of breach event indicators including (a) a housing breach indicator indicating a housing breach and (b) a circuit board breach indicator indicating a circuit board breach, and in response to an affirmative evaluation of any of the plurality of breach event indicators, detect a breach event.
16. The electrical power management system of claim 15 wherein each of the plurality of circuit breakers includes one of a mechanical circuit breaker, a solid state circuit breaker, and a combined mechanical and solid state circuit breaker.
17. The electrical power management system of claim 16 wherein the breach detector is adapted to: generate an alert configured to identify the detected breach event.
18. The electrical power management system of claim 17 wherein the circuit breaker controller includes a processor and a memory configured to store program instructions, the circuit breaker controller configured to execute stored program instructions to: determine the generation of the alert; determine the identity of the circuit breaker having the detected breach event; and provide an identifier of the determined identity of the circuit breaker having the detected breach event; and transmit the identifier to the network communication router.
19. The electrical power management system of claim 18 wherein the electrical circuit of each of the circuit breakers is adapted to adjust an operating condition of the switch in response to the circuit breaker controller.
20. The electrical power management system of claim 19 wherein the circuit breaker controller is further configured to executed stored program instructions to: disable operation of the switch of the circuit breaker having the detected breach event.
21. The electrical power management system of claim 20 wherein the circuit breaker controller is further configured to execute stored program instructions to: disable operation of the circuit breaker having the detected breach event in response to a manual attempt change a status of the switch.
22. The electrical power management system of claim 21 wherein the circuit breaker controller comprises a system circuit breaker controller operatively connected to each of the plurality of circuit breakers.
23. The electrical power management system of claim 21 wherein the circuit breaker controller comprises a plurality of circuit breaker controllers, wherein each one of the plurality of circuit breakers includes one of the plurality of circuit breaker controllers.
24. The system of claim 15 wherein the plurality of breach event indicators includes software breach indicator.
</claims>
</document>
