<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAMURTHY, BALAJI
GUPTA, PIYUSH
RUPELA, AKASH
KUMARI, NUPUR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63790703
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitating machine-learning and data analysis by computing user-session representation vectors
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed systems and methods generate user-session representation vectors from data generated by user interactions with online services. A transformation application executing on a computing device receives interaction data, which is generated by user devices interacting with an online service. The transformation application separates the interaction data into session datasets. The transformation involves normalizing the session datasets by modifying the rows within each session dataset by removing event identifiers and time stamps. The application transforms each normalized session dataset into a respective user-session representation vector. The application outputs the user-session representation vectors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating user-session representation vectors from user interaction data, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing device, interaction data comprising a first sequence and a second sequence, generated by user devices interacting with an online service via a data network; separating, by the processing device, the interaction data into session datasets, each of the session datasets comprising a categorical variable; normalizing, by the processing device, the session datasets by removing event identifiers and time stamps; transforming, by the processing device, each normalized session dataset into a respective user-session representation vector, wherein a distance between a pair of the user-session representation vectors in a Euclidian space corresponds to a dissimilarity between the first sequence and the second sequence with respect to the categorical variable, wherein the transforming comprises: converting each session data set into a set of intermediate vectors; providing a respective set of intermediate vectors to an encoder of a Recurrent Neural Network that comprises a plurality of internal encoder states and a decoder; updating at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states based on the set of intermediate vectors; providing at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states to the decoder; and extracting the user-session representation vector from the at least one of the plurality of updated internal encoder states; and outputting, by the processing device, the user-session representation vectors for use by at least one of a machine-learning algorithm or a data analysis algorithm.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein transforming each normalized session dataset into the respective user-session representation vector comprises reducing, by the processing device, dimensionality of intermediate vectors in the respective set of intermediate vectors.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein reducing the dimensionality of intermediate vectors in the respective set of intermediate vectors comprises: providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to an autoencoder, the autoencoder comprising plurality of internal states; configuring the autoencoder to predict the intermediate vectors; and extracting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from an output of one of the plurality of internal states.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein reducing dimensionality of the intermediate vectors in the respective set of intermediate vectors comprises: providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to a Principal Component Analysis algorithm; performing a linear mapping of the intermediate vectors into a lower-dimension space, the lower-dimension space maximizing variation of the intermediate vectors and having a lower dimension as compared to the intermediate vectors, wherein the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors are output by the linear mapping; and outputting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from the lower-dimension space.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction data further comprises numerical data, and wherein transforming the interaction data into intermediate vectors further comprises assigning enumerated values to data falling within predetermined ranges of numerical values.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one of the machine-learning or the data analysis algorithm comprises a topological data analysis algorithm that uses the user-session representation vectors to derive topological invariants for predictive modelling.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining an output by applying the machine-learning algorithm to the user-session representation vectors; and providing the output to a user device.
8. A system comprising: at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium storing user interaction data and computer-executable instructions for generating user-session representation vectors from user interaction data; and a processing device communicatively coupled to the at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium for executing the computer-executable instructions, wherein executing the computer-executable instructions configures the processing device to perform operations comprising: receiving, by the processing device, interaction data comprising a first sequence and a second sequence, generated by user devices interacting with an online service via a data network; separating, by the processing device, the interaction data into session datasets, each of the session datasets comprising a categorical variable; normalizing, by the processing device, the session datasets by removing event identifiers and time stamps; transforming, by the processing device, each normalized session dataset into a respective user-session representation vector, wherein a distance between a pair of the user-session representation vectors in a Euclidian space corresponds to a dissimilarity between the first sequence and the second sequence with respect to the categorical variable, wherein the transforming comprises: converting each session data set into a set of intermediate vectors; providing a respective set of intermediate vectors to an encoder of a Recurrent Neural Network that comprises a plurality of internal encoder states and a decoder; updating at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states based on the set of intermediate vectors; providing at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states to the decoder; and extracting the user-session representation vector from the at least one of the plurality of updated internal encoder states; and outputting, by the processing device, the user-session representation vectors for use by at least one of a machine-learning algorithm or a data analysis algorithm.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein transforming each normalized session dataset into the respective user-session representation vector comprises reducing, by the processing device, dimensionality of intermediate vectors in the respective set of intermediate vectors.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein reducing dimensionality of the intermediate vectors comprises: providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to an autoencoder, the autoencoder comprising a plurality of internal states; configuring the autoencoder to predict the intermediate vectors; and extracting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from an output of one of the plurality of internal states.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein reducing dimensionality of the intermediate vectors comprises: providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to a Principal Component Analysis algorithm; performing a linear mapping of the intermediate vectors into a lower-dimension space, wherein the lower-dimension space maximizes variation of the intermediate vectors and has a lower dimension as compared to the intermediate vectors, wherein the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors are outputted by the linear mapping; and outputting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from the lower-dimension space.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the interaction data further comprises numerical data, and wherein transforming the interaction data into intermediate vectors further comprises assigning enumerated values to data falling within predetermined ranges of numerical values.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the interaction data further comprises a plurality of interactions, wherein the separating the interactions into sessions further comprises analyzing whether an interaction occurred within a predetermined time interval.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one of the machine-learning or the data analysis algorithm comprises a topological data analysis algorithm that uses the user-session representation vectors to derive topological invariants for predictive modelling.
15. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining an output by applying the machine-learning algorithm to the user-session representation vectors; and providing the output to a user device.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-executable program instructions, wherein when executed by a processing device, the program instructions cause the processing device to perform operations comprising: a step for receiving interaction data comprising a first sequence and a second sequence generated by user devices interacting with an online service via a data network; a step for separating the interaction data into session datasets, each session of the session datasets comprising a categorical variable; a step for normalizing the session datasets by removing event identifiers and time stamps; a step for transforming, by the processing device, each normalized session dataset into a respective user-session representation vector, wherein a distance between a pair of the user-session representation vectors in a Euclidian space corresponds to a dissimilarity between the first sequence and the second sequence with respect to the categorical variable, wherein the transforming comprises: converting each session data set into a set of intermediate vectors; providing a respective set of intermediate vectors to an encoder of a Recurrent Neural Network that comprises a plurality of internal encoder states and a decoder; updating at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states based on the set of intermediate vectors; providing at least one of the plurality of internal encoder states to the decoder; and extracting a user-session representation vector from the at least one of the plurality of updated internal encoder states; and a step for outputting the user-session representation vectors for use by at least one of a machine-learning algorithm or a data analysis algorithm.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the step for transforming each normalized session dataset into the respective user-session representation vector comprises reducing dimensionality of intermediate vectors in the respective set of intermediate vectors.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the step for reducing dimensionality of the intermediate vectors comprises: a step for providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to an autoencoder, the autoencoder comprising a plurality of internal states; a step for configuring the autoencoder to predict the intermediate vectors; and a step for extracting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from an output of one of the plurality of internal states.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the step for reducing dimensionality of the intermediate vectors comprises: a step for providing the intermediate vectors as inputs to a Principal Component Analysis algorithm; a step for performing a linear mapping of the intermediate vectors into a lower-dimension space, the lower-dimension space maximizes variation of the intermediate vectors and has a lower dimension as compared to the intermediate vectors, wherein the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors are outputted by the linear mapping; and a step for outputting the reduced-dimension intermediate vectors from the lower-dimension space.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the data analysis algorithm is a topological data analysis algorithm and wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining an output by applying the topological data analysis algorithm to the user-session representation vectors; and providing the output to a user device.
</claims>
</document>
