<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B21/06,G08G1/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/0962,G08G1/0967,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAN, LEO
CIELOCHA, STEVEN C.
CRAWFORD, JENNIFER L.
GAUDIN, KRISTOPHER KEITH
KELLETT, JENNIFER CRISWELL
LEISE, WILLIAM J.
LYONS, ROXANE
MATESEVAC, III, EDWARD P.
MEGYESE, MATTHEW S.
MYERS, JEREMY
NEPOMUCENO, JOHN A.
SHAH, RAJIV C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62837200
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Networked vehicle control systems to facilitate situational awareness of vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are provided for improving vehicle awareness and safety by generating and transmitting alerts in response to detecting a hazard in the environment omnidirectional to a vehicle awareness system. Omnidirectional environment data, representing kinematic information pertaining to one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the primary vehicle, is acquired by one or more sensors communicatively coupled to ta vehicle. The system analyzes the omnidirectional environment data to detect if one or more hazards in the omnidirectional environment data, representing a change in the kinetic behavior of the one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the vehicle awareness system, has occurred. When the system detects one or more hazards in the omnidirectional environment data, the system generates and transmits an alert to vehicles, vehicle operators, mobile devices, or pedestrians at risk from the hazard.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for improving vehicle safety, the method comprising: acquiring, by one or more transceivers communicatively coupled to a vehicle awareness system, omnidirectional environment data from one or more transceivers, where the omnidirectional environment data represents kinetic information on one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the vehicle awareness system; analyzing, via one or more processors, the omnidirectional environment data to detect one or more hazards in the omnidirectional environment data, wherein one hazard includes an autonomous or semi-autonomous feature of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment; and generating, via the one or more processors, an alert in response to detecting the one or more hazards.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more peripheral vehicles, where the one or more peripheral vehicles is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more pedestrians, where the one or more pedestrians is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more physical structures, where the one or more physical structures is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the one or more hazards further indicate at least one of (1) the current status of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment of the vehicle awareness system, and (2) a change in the kinetic behavior of the one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the vehicle awareness system.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, where the current status of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment of the primary vehicle includes the vehicle's doors have not been opened since it parked.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: transmitting, via the one or more processors and/or associated transceivers, the alert to at least one alert device, wherein the at least one alert device is one of (1) an on-board computer coupled to the primary vehicle, (2) a mobile device associated with one or more of the occupants of a vehicle, and (3) a mobile device associated with one or more pedestrians.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where generating an alert includes selecting one or more of a visual alert, an audio alert, and a haptic alert.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where analyzing the omnidirectional environment data to detect one or more hazards further includes analyzing the kinematic information of a vehicle to generate a predicted route for the vehicle.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, where the omnidirectional environment data is acquired over a wireless network from a third-party.
11. A computer system configured to improve vehicle safety including: one or more transceivers, communicatively coupled to a vehicle awareness system, configured to acquire omnidirectional environment data, where the omnidirectional environment data represents kinetic information on one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the vehicle awareness system; one or more processors configured to analyze the omnidirectional environment data, where the one or more processors is configured to detect one or more hazards in the omnidirectional environment data, wherein one hazard is an autonomous or semi-autonomous feature of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment; and one or more alert systems configured to generate an alert in response to the one or more processors detecting the one or more hazards.
12. The system of claim 11, where the one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more peripheral vehicles, where the one or more peripheral vehicles is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
13. The system of claim 11, where the one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more pedestrians, where the one or more pedestrians is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
14. The system of claim 11, where the one or more of the transceivers are communicatively coupled to one or more physical structures, where the one or more physical structures is adjacent to the primary vehicle.
15. The system of claim 11, where the one or more hazards further indicate at least one of (1) the current status of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment of the vehicle awareness system, and (2) a change in the kinetic behavior of the one or more physically detectable elements omnidirectional to the vehicle awareness system.
16. The system of claim 15, where the current status of a vehicle in the omnidirectional environment of the primary vehicle includes the vehicle's doors have not been opened since it parked.
17. The system of claim 11, the system further configured to transmit the alert to at least one alert device, wherein the at least one alert devices is one of (1) an on-board computer coupled to the primary vehicle, (2) a mobile device associated with one or more of the occupants of a vehicle, and (3) a mobile device associated with one or more pedestrians.
18. The system of claim 11, where the one or more alert systems are further configured to generate an alert by selecting one or more of a visual alert, an audio alert, and a haptic alert.
19. The system of claim 11, where the one or more processors are further configured to analyze the omnidirectional environment data by analyzing the kinematic information of a vehicle to generate a predicted route for the vehicle.
20. The system of claim 11, where the one or more transceivers acquire the omnidirectional data over a wireless network from a third-party.
</claims>
</document>
