<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-04-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/78,G06F3/0482,G06F40/169,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEWIS, JUSTIN
RAY, JONATHAN WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60189586
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Media object annotation with interactive elements
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system is disclosed that determines whether a content item viewed by a user has been approved by the user. Responsive to determining that the content item has been approved by the user, the method and system select a share interactive element to display with a graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with one or more other users in any of a plurality of content networks. The method and system annotate the graphical representation of the content item with share interactive element. The method and system further provide, by a processor, the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element for display on a media device.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising: determining, based on at least one score, whether a content item viewed by a user was approved by the user; responsive to determining that the content item has been approved by the user, selecting a share interactive element to display with a graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with one or more other users in any of a plurality of content networks; annotating the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element; and providing, by a processor, the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element for display on a media device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a user selection of the share interactive element; and providing the content item associated with the share interactive element to the one or more users in the plurality of content networks.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the graphical representation is a thumbnail of the content item.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the content item is a photo image.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the content item viewed by the user has been approved by the user comprises: generating one or more scores indicative of a user's interaction with the content item.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein selecting the share interactive element to display with the graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with the one or more other users in any of the plurality of content networks comprises: selecting a highest score from the one or more scores indicative of the user's interaction with the content item; and determining the highest score is associated with the share interactive element.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more scores are associated with a different one of a plurality of interactive elements.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more scores are generated using a machine learning algorithm.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein annotating the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element comprises: providing the interactive element as an overlay to the graphical representation to the content item.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the interactive element is provided for display in a drop down menu.
11. A system comprising: a memory; and a processor, coupled to the memory, to: determine, based on at least one score, whether a content item viewed by a user was approved by the user; responsive to determining that the content item has been approved by the user, select a share interactive element to display with a graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with one or more other users in any of a plurality of content networks; annotate the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element; and provide the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element for display on a media device.
12. The system of claim 11, the processor further to: receive a user selection of the share interactive element; and provide the content item associated with the share interactive element to the one or more users in the plurality of content networks.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the content item is a photo image.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein to determine whether the content item viewed by the user has been approved by the user, the processor further to: generate one or more scores indicative of a user's interaction with the content item.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein to select the share interactive element to display with the graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with the one or more other users in any of the plurality of content networks the processor further to: select a highest score from the one or more scores indicative of the user's interaction with the content item; and determine the highest score is associated with the share interactive element.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more scores are generated using a machine learning algorithm.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions that, responsive to being executed by a processor, cause the processor to: determine, based on at least one score, whether a content item viewed by a user was approved by the user; responsive to determining that the content item has been approved by the user, select a share interactive element to display with a graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with one or more other users in any of a plurality of content networks; annotate the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element; and provide, by the processor, the graphical representation of the content item with the share interactive element for display on a media device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein to determine whether the content item viewed by the user has been approved by the user, the processor further to: generate one or more scores indicative of a user's interaction with the content item.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein to select the share interactive element to display with the graphical representation of the content item to allow the content item to be shared with the one or more other users in any of the plurality of content networks the processor further to: select a highest score from the one or more scores indicative of the user's interaction with the content item; and determine the highest score is associated with the share interactive element.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the one or more scores are generated using a machine learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
