<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/07,G06F11/10,G11C11/56,G11C16/04,G11C16/26,G11C29/02,G11C29/44,G11C29/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PURE STORAGE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILADINOVIC, NENAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66659458
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Read voltage optimization
</title>

<abstract>
A method for biasing read voltage for flash memory in a storage system, performed by the storage system, is provided. The method includes determining a first number of bit errors for a first read of data at an address in the flash memory at a previously determined optimum read voltage level. Determining a second number of bit errors for a second read of the data at the address in the flash memory at a further read voltage level. Adjusting the optimum read voltage level up or down based on a comparison of the first number of bit errors and the second number of bit errors. Iterating each method operation, to adjust the optimum read voltage level in a first direction of the further read voltage level when the second number of bit errors is less than the first number of bit errors, and to adjust the optimum read voltage level in a second direction when the second number of bit errors is greater than the first number of bit errors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining a first number of bit errors for a first read of data at an address in the flash memory at a previously determined optimum read voltage level; determining a second number of bit errors for a second read of the data at the address in the flash memory at a further read voltage level; adjusting the optimum read voltage level based on and limited to a comparison of the first number of bit errors determined at the previously determined optimum read voltage level and the second number of bit errors determined at the further read voltage level; and iterating the determining the first number of bit errors, the determining the second number of bit errors, and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level, to adjust the optimum read voltage level in a first direction of the further read voltage level when the second number of bit errors is less than the first number of bit errors and to adjust the optimum read voltage level in a second direction when the second number of bit errors is greater than the first number of bit errors.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein to adjust the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is without determining a third number of bit errors for a third read of the data at the address.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the further read voltage level is higher than the previously determined optimum read voltage level by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is higher by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is lower by the increment.
4. The method of claim 1, the further read voltage level is lower than the previously determined optimum read voltage level by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is lower by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is higher by the increment.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting further optimum read voltage levels for multilevel cell (MLC) flash memory.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: to adjust the optimum read voltage level in the first direction of the further read voltage level is by an increment to one of: a level between the previously determined optimum read voltage level and the further read voltage level, the further read voltage level, or a level beyond the further read voltage level.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein each adjusting of the optimum read voltage level during the iterating, is by a same increment.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting is based on a gradient in bit errors between the first number of bit errors at the previously determined optimum read voltage level and the second number of bit errors at the further read voltage level.
9. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable media having instructions thereupon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method comprising: determining a first number of bit errors for a first read of data at an address in a flash memory at a previously determined optimum read voltage level; determining a second number of bit errors for a second read of the data at the address in the flash memory at a further read voltage level; adjusting the optimum read voltage level in a first direction of the further read voltage level, responsive to determining the second number of bit errors is less than the first number of bit errors and based on and limited to a comparison of the first number of bit errors determined at the previously determined optimum read voltage level and the second number of bit errors determined at the further read voltage level; determining a third number of bit errors for a first read of data at a further address in the flash memory at the optimum read voltage level; determining a fourth number of bit errors for a second read of the data at the further address in the flash memory at a still further read voltage level; and adjusting the optimum read voltage level in a second direction, responsive to determining the fourth number of bit errors is greater than the third number of bit errors and based on and limited to a comparison of the third number of bit errors determined at the optimum read voltage level and the fourth number of bit errors determined at the still further read voltage level.
10. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the adjusting in the second direction is without testing for bit errors for a read with the to-be-adjusted-to optimum read voltage level prior to adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction.
11. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein: the further read voltage level is higher than the previously determined optimum read voltage level by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is higher by the increment; the still further read voltage level is higher than a present value of the optimum read voltage level by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is lower than the present value of the optimum read voltage level by the increment.
12. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein: the further read voltage level is lower than the previously determined optimum read voltage level by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is lower by the increment; the still further read voltage level is higher than a present value of the optimum read voltage level by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is higher than the present value of the optimum read voltage level by the increment.
13. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises adjusting further optimum read voltage levels for multilevel cell (MLC) flash memory.
14. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein each adjusting the optimum read voltage level, in the first direction and the second direction, is by a same increment.
15. A system, comprising: flash memory; and one or more processors configurable to iterate: determining a first number of bit errors for a first read of data at an address in the flash memory at an optimum read voltage level determined in a previous iteration; determining a second number of bit errors for a second read of the data at the address in the flash memory at a further read voltage level; and adjusting, based on and limited to a comparison of the first number of bit errors determined at the optimum read voltage level determined in the previous iteration and the second number of bit errors determined at the further read voltage level, the optimum read voltage level in a first direction of the further read voltage level when the second number of bit errors is less than the first number of bit errors and adjusting the optimum read voltage level in a second direction when the second number of bit errors is greater than the first number of bit errors.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein each time the one or more processors performs the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction, the adjusting is without having tested next optimum read voltage level prior to using the next optimum read voltage level to access user data.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein: the further read voltage level is higher than the optimum read voltage level determined in the previous iteration, by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is higher by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is lower by the increment.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein: the further read voltage level is lower than the optimum read voltage level determined in the previous iteration, by an increment; the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the first direction is lower by the increment; and the adjusting the optimum read voltage level in the second direction is higher by the increment.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein: the flash memory comprises multilevel cell (MLC); and the one or more processors are further configurable to adjust further optimum read voltage levels for the multilevel cell flash memory.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the adjusting is based on detecting a gradient in bit errors between the first number of bit errors at the optimum read voltage level determined in the previous iteration and the second number of bit errors at the further read voltage level.
</claims>
</document>
