<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/048,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KASISTO
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASKEY, SASHA
PAMMI, SATHISH
AVERBOCH, GUILLERMO
MA, YI
STEWART, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61559286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for using existing models in connection with new model development
</title>

<abstract>
A method for model management includes receiving data on which to base a model, evaluating the received data against a plurality of existing models and data associated with each of the plurality of existing models, determining whether any of the plurality of existing models can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data, and providing a user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for model management, comprising: receiving data on which to base a model; evaluating the received data against a plurality of existing models and data associated with each of the plurality of existing models; determining whether any of the plurality of existing models can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; providing a user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; generating a dynamic set of labels tracking a provenance of events corresponding to at least one of merging, dividing and creating models over a time period, wherein the labels represent at least one of merged, divided and created models and associated data of the at least one of merged, divided and created models; using the dynamic set of labels to retrieve provenance information associated with the at least one of merged, divided and created models; wherein providing the user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data comprises recommending two or more of the existing models that can be merged to develop the model for the received data; receiving a selection of two or more of the existing models to be merged to develop the model for the received data; marking data corresponding to each of the selected models with a corresponding original model category; merging the data corresponding to the selected models; and replacing the selected models with a combined class model based on the merged data; wherein the method is performed by at least one computer system comprising at least one memory and at least one processor connected to the memory.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining comprises performing probabilistic statistical analysis.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the probabilistic statistical analysis determines whether a given existing model meets or exceeds a predetermined probability that the given existing model is useable as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein the probabilistic statistical analysis comprises performing feature extraction, natural language processing, one or more natural language understanding processes and one or more machine learning processes.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the one or more machine learning processes comprise at least one of maximum entropy classification, conditional random fields and deep learning.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: dividing the merged data into test data and training data; and training the model for the received data.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein providing the user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data further comprises recommending one or more of the existing models that can be divided to develop the model for the received data.
8. The method according to claim 7, further comprising: selecting, by the user, one or more of the existing models to be divided to develop the model for the received data; marking data corresponding to each of the one or more selected models to be divided with a corresponding original model category; and dividing the data corresponding to the one or more selected models to be divided into a plurality of categories.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: dividing the divided data into test data and training data; and training the model for the received data.
10. The method according to claim 7, wherein the recommending of the one or more of the existing models that can be divided is performed using a clustering algorithm.
11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising receiving additional data on which to base an additional model, wherein it is determined that none of the plurality of existing models can be used as the additional model or as a basis to develop the additional model for the received additional data.
12. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: determining that the additional model for the received additional data be developed independent of the plurality of existing models; and collecting crowdsourced data for the additional model for the received additional data.
13. The method according to claim 12, further comprising: dividing the crowdsourced data into test data and training data; and training the additional model for the received additional data.
14. A system for model management, comprising: one or more processing devices operatively connected via a communications network; an input/output module, implemented by the one or more processing devices, wherein the input/output module is configured to receive data on which to base a model; a model controller, implemented by the one or more processing devices and operatively connected to the input/output module, wherein the model controller is configured to: receive the data on which to base the model from the input/output module; evaluate the received data against a plurality of existing models and data associated with each of the plurality of existing models; determine whether any of the plurality of existing models can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; generate a dynamic set of labels tracking a provenance of events corresponding to at least one of merging, dividing and creating models over a time period, wherein the labels represent at least one of merged, divided and created models and associated data of the at least one of merged, divided and created models; and use the dynamic set of labels to retrieve provenance information associated with the at least one of merged, divided and created models; wherein the plurality of existing models and data associated with each of the plurality of existing models are stored in a database operatively connected to and accessible by the model controller; and wherein the model controller is further configured to: provide a user, via the input/output module, with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; recommend two or more of the existing models that can be merged to develop the model for the received data; receive a selection of two or more of the existing models to be merged to develop the model for the received data; mark data corresponding to each of the selected models with a corresponding original model category; merge the data corresponding to the selected models; and replace the selected models with a combined class model based on the merged data.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein: the model controller is further configured to perform probabilistic statistical analysis to determine whether any of the plurality of existing models can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; and wherein the probabilistic statistical analysis determines whether a given existing model meets or exceeds a predetermined probability that the given existing model is useable as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data.
16. The system according to claim 14, wherein the model controller is further configured to recommend one or more of the existing models that can be divided to develop the model for the received data.
17. The system according to claim 14, wherein: the model controller is configured to receive additional data on which to base an additional model from the input/output module; the model controller determines that none of the plurality of existing models can be used as the additional model or as a basis to develop the additional model for the received additional data, and that the additional model for the received additional data be developed independent of the plurality of existing models; and the system further comprises a trainer, implemented by the one or more processing devices and operatively connected to the model controller, wherein the trainer is configured to collect crowdsourced data for the additional model for the received additional data.
18. An article of manufacture comprising a processor-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by one or more processing devices implement the steps of: receiving data on which to base a model; evaluating the received data against a plurality of existing models and data associated with each of the plurality of existing models; determining whether any of the plurality of existing models can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; providing a user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data; generating a dynamic set of labels tracking a provenance of events corresponding to at least one of merging, dividing and creating models over a time period, wherein the labels represent at least one of merged, divided and created models and associated data of the at least one of merged, divided and created models; using the dynamic set of labels to retrieve provenance information associated with the at least one of merged, divided and created models; wherein providing the user with the existing models that can be used as the model or as a basis to develop the model for the received data comprises recommending two or more of the existing models that can be merged to develop the model for the received data; receiving a selection of two or more of the existing models to be merged to develop the model for the received data; marking data corresponding to each of the selected models with a corresponding original model category; merging the data corresponding to the selected models; and replacing the selected models with a combined class model based on the merged data.
</claims>
</document>
