<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
SONY EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOPALLI, AYCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62975557
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Camera, system and method of selecting camera settings
</title>

<abstract>
A camera comprises a memory configured to store a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images, a memory configured to store a plurality of image characteristics derived for previous captured images, a correlation processor configured to provide a correlation between stored image characteristics and stored respective camera settings, a detection processor configured to detect live image characteristics for a current live view obtained by the camera, the correlation processor being configured to identify stored respective camera settings most closely correlating to the live image characteristics, and the camera being configured to provide the identified camera settings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A camera, comprising a first memory configured to store a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images; a second memory configured to store a plurality of image characteristics derived for the captured images; a correlation processor configured to provide a correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; a detection processor configured to detect live image characteristics for a current live view obtained by the camera; the correlation processor being configured to identify stored respective camera settings most closely correlating to the live image characteristics based on the correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; and the camera being configured to provide the identified camera settings.
2. The camera of claim 1, wherein the stored plurality of respective camera settings are a set of camera settings associated with the capture of a previous image.
3. The camera of claim 1, wherein the camera is arranged to adopt the identified camera settings.
4. The camera of claim 1, wherein the camera is configured to obtain two images in response to a taking of a shot, one with automatic camera settings, and the other based upon the identified camera settings.
5. The camera of claim 1, wherein the camera is arranged to present retrieved camera settings via a user interface for selection.
6. The camera of claim 5, wherein the correlation processor is configured to identify and retrieve a predetermined number of stored respective camera settings most closely correlating to the live image characteristics, and the camera is arranged to present two or more of the predetermined number of identified camera settings via a user interface for selection.
7. The camera of claim 1, wherein the correlation processor is configured to provide a correlation between stored sets of image characteristics derived from previous images and stored sets of camera settings, the image characteristics and camera settings having been obtained from a remote source.
8. The camera of claim 7, further comprising an interface configured to receive sets of image characteristic data and camera settings from a remote device.
9. The camera of claim 1, wherein data of the stored plurality of image characteristics comprises one or more selected from the list consisting of: i. feature data derived from an image; ii. a thumbnail of an image; and iii. a parametric description of an image.
10. The camera of claim 1, wherein data of the stored plurality of image characteristics comprises position data indicative of a location of capture of an image.
11. The camera of claim 1, wherein data of the stored plurality of image characteristics comprises subject or location characteristic data.
12. The camera of claim 1, wherein the captured images are video images, and the camera is a video camera.
13. A method of selecting camera settings for a camera, comprising: storing a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images; storing a plurality of sets of image characteristics derived for the captured images; providing a correlation between the stored plurality of sets of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; detecting live image characteristics for a current live view obtained by the camera; identifying stored respective camera settings most closely correlating to the live image characteristics based on the correlation between the stored plurality of sets of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; and providing the identified camera settings to the user of the camera.
14. A computer, comprising: a first memory configured to store a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images; a second memory configured to store a plurality of image characteristics derived for the captured images; a correlation processor configured to provide a correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; an output interface; and a camera settings generation processor, configured to generate a predetermined number of respective camera settings that together approximate to within predetermined tolerances, a largest number of stored camera settings, wherein the correlation processor is configured to identify image characteristics most closely correlating to the predetermined number of respective camera settings based on the correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings, and the output interface is configured to output the predetermined number of respective camera settings and identified image characteristics to the camera.
15. A system for selecting camera settings for a camera, comprising: a camera, including: a first memory configured to store a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images, a second memory configured to store a plurality of image characteristics derived for the captured images, a correlation processor configured to provide a correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings, a detection processor configured to detect live image characteristics for a current live view obtained by the camera, the correlation processor being configured to identify stored respective camera settings most closely correlating to the live image characteristics based on the correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings, and the camera being configured to provide the identified camera settings.
16. A method of selecting camera settings for a camera, comprising: storing a plurality of respective camera settings previously used by the camera when capturing images; storing a plurality of image characteristics derived for the captured images; providing a correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; generating a predetermined number of respective camera settings that together approximate to within predetermined tolerances, a largest number of stored camera settings; identifying image characteristics most closely correlating to the predetermined number of respective camera settings based on the correlation between the stored plurality of image characteristics and the stored plurality of respective camera settings; and outputting the predetermined number of respective camera settings and identified image characteristics to the camera.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium including computer program instructions, which when executed by a computer causes the computer to perform the method of claim 13.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium including computer program instructions, which when executed by a computer causes the computer to perform the method of claim 16.
</claims>
</document>
