<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/332,G06F16/35,G06F16/951,G06F17/00,G06F17/30,G06F7/00,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
STATCHUK, CRAIG A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62243200
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Building a data query engine that leverages expert data preparation operations
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program product for building a data query engine. Initial taxonomies that describe and categorize data are built by expert users (e.g., data scientists) employing machine learning algorithms. The data is also indexed and stored in an index. Queries are then received from non-expert users to query the data based on data categorization from built taxonomies and the indexing. After the queries are executed using the machine learning algorithms in an environment (e.g., Hadoop®), the results of the queries are rated for relevance, precision and accuracy. The machine learning algorithms are also rated based on the number of successful queries. Those machine learning algorithms with a rating above a threshold are identified to be utilized to scan new data to be stored in the index to provide a new environment that replaces the initial environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for building a data query engine, the method comprising: indexing and storing data in an index; receiving queries to query said data using category facets based on data categorization from built taxonomies and said indexing, wherein said taxonomies describe and categorize said data using machine language algorithms from a machine learning engine; executing said queries by a query engine using said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine in an environment, wherein a search optimized data analytics tool is utilized to leverage data preparation operations to build said query engine, wherein said search optimized data analytics tool comprises an ingest and index, wherein said ingest and index stores keyword to content references by tokenizing and adding location offsets to an inverted search list, wherein said keywords are indexed by columns and equivalent metadata to create search facets; rating, by a processor, results of said queries for relevance, precision and accuracy, wherein said relevance is a result that is appropriate to a query, wherein said precision is a result that is absolutely correct and exact without including any non-relevant results to said query, wherein said accuracy is being correct in all details; rating, by said processor, said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine based on number of successful queries, wherein said number of successful queries are based on said rating assigned to said queries for said relevance, said precision and said accuracy; identifying, by said processor, those machine learning algorithms from said machine learning engine with a rating above a threshold, wherein said threshold is user-defined; utilizing, by said processor, those identified machine learning algorithms to scan new data to be stored in said index so that subsequent new data is more accurately related to a growing corpus of taxonomies; and providing a new environment that replaces said environment using said index with said new scanned data.
2. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: offering application programming interfaces that create data views for a given analytics task or workflow.
3. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: facilitating a guided search and discovery by suggesting facets and related topics driven by context and previous activities.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said queries are received from a reporting engine or search and discovery applications.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein said index is a full-text index.
6. A computer program product for building a data query engine, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code comprising the programming instructions for: indexing and storing data in an index; receiving queries to query said data using category facets based on data categorization from built taxonomies and said indexing, wherein said taxonomies describe and categorize said data using machine language algorithms from a machine learning engine; executing said queries by a query engine using said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine in an environment, wherein a search optimized data analytics tool is utilized to leverage data preparation operations to build said query engine, wherein said search optimized data analytics tool comprises an ingest and index, wherein said ingest and index stores keyword to content references by tokenizing and adding location offsets to an inverted search list, wherein said keywords are indexed by columns and equivalent metadata to create search facets; rating results of said queries for relevance, precision and accuracy, wherein said relevance is a result that is appropriate to a query, wherein said precision is a result that is absolutely correct and exact without including any non-relevant results to said query, wherein said accuracy is being correct in all details; rating said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine based on number of successful queries, wherein said number of successful queries are based on said rating assigned to said queries for said relevance, said precision and said accuracy; identifying those machine learning algorithms from said machine learning engine with a rating above a threshold, wherein said threshold is user-defined; utilizing those identified machine learning algorithms to scan new data to be stored in said index so that subsequent new data is more accurately related to a growing corpus of taxonomies; and providing a new environment that replaces said environment using said index with said new scanned data.
7. The computer program product as recited in claim 6, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: offering application programming interfaces that create data views for a given analytics task or workflow.
8. The computer program product as recited in claim 6, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: facilitating a guided search and discovery by suggesting facets and related topics driven by context and previous activities.
9. The computer program product as recited in claim 6, wherein said queries are received from a reporting engine or search and discovery applications.
10. The computer program product as recited in claim 6, wherein said index is a full-text index.
11. A system, comprising: a memory unit for storing a computer program for building a data query engine; and a processor coupled to the memory unit, wherein the processor is configured to execute the program instructions of the computer program comprising: indexing and storing data in an index; receiving queries to query said data using category facets based on data categorization from built taxonomies and said indexing, wherein said taxonomies describe and categorize said data using machine language algorithms from a machine learning engine; executing said queries by a query engine using said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine in an environment, wherein a search optimized data analytics tool is utilized to leverage data preparation operations to build said query engine, wherein said search optimized data analytics tool comprises an ingest and index, wherein said ingest and index stores keyword to content references by tokenizing and adding location offsets to an inverted search list, wherein said keywords are indexed by columns and equivalent metadata to create search facets; rating results of said queries for relevance, precision and accuracy, wherein said relevance is a result that is appropriate to a query, wherein said precision is a result that is absolutely correct and exact without including any non-relevant results to said query, wherein said accuracy is being correct in all details; rating said machine language algorithms from said machine learning engine based on number of successful queries, wherein said number of successful queries are based on said rating assigned to said queries for said relevance, said precision and said accuracy; identifying those machine learning algorithms from said machine learning engine with a rating above a threshold, wherein said threshold is user-defined; utilizing those identified machine learning algorithms to scan new data to be stored in said index so that subsequent new data is more accurately related to a growing corpus of taxonomies; and providing a new environment that replaces said environment using said index with said new scanned data.
12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the program instructions of the computer program further comprise: offering application programming interfaces that create data views for a given analytics task or workflow.
13. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the program instructions of the computer program further comprise: facilitating a guided search and discovery by suggesting facets and related topics driven by context and previous activities.
14. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said queries are received from a reporting engine or search and discovery applications.
15. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein said index is a full-text index.
</claims>
</document>
