<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47G29/14,A47G29/20,E06B9/08,E06B9/58,E06B9/70,G06Q10/08,G07C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEOPOST TECHNOLOGIES
QUADIENT TECHNOLOGIES FRANCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
POINTEAU, STÉPHANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61223863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive parcel locker and related systems and processes
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic parcel locker comprising an outside enclosure constituted of two side panels, of a bottom panel, of a top panel and of a back panel fastened together and defining a front aperture of the electronic parcel locker, and an internal structure for supporting parcels deposited in the electronic parcel locker, the internal structure being constituted of an array of bars with a same length regularly aligned essentially perpendicularly to the back panel and selectively movable between extended positions where a front end of the array of bars is aligned with the front aperture of the electronic parcel locker, and retractable positions where the bars of the array of bars corresponding to shapes of parcels to be deposited in said electronic parcel locker are retractable towards the back panel for defining temporary compartments exactly adapted to shapes of the parcels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic parcel locker comprising: an outside enclosure constituted of two side panels, of a bottom panel, of a top panel and of a back panel fastened together and defining a front aperture of said electronic parcel locker, and an internal structure for supporting parcels deposited in said electronic parcel locker, wherein said internal structure is constituted of an array of bars with a same length regularly aligned essentially perpendicularly to said back panel and selectively movable between extended positions where a front end of said array of bars is aligned with said front aperture of said electronic parcel locker, and retractable positions where bars of said array of bars corresponding to shapes of parcels to be deposited in said electronic parcel locker are retractable towards said back panel for defining temporary compartments exactly adapted to said shapes of parcels.
2. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 1, wherein said bars of said array of bars are aligned vertically and horizontally, and are touching or almost touching each other's side, and axes of the bars are inclined slightly upwards from the back panel.
3. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 1, wherein said array of bars is constituted of one of the following structure: bars with a circular section, bars with a T section, bars with a hexagonal section in a honeycomb geometry, flat bars with elongated rectangular sections regularly positioned vertically, rows of flat bars alternatively positioned horizontally and vertically where said flat bars positioned vertically have their top side aligned with top sides of said flat bars positioned horizontally so as to participate in supporting a parcel deposited on said top sides of said flat bars positioned horizontally.
4. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 1, wherein said internal structure further comprises: actuators configured for actively maintaining in said extended positions horizontal and vertical rows of said bars delimiting said temporary compartment for a deposited parcel, retraction sensors each of which being associated with one bar and wherein said retraction sensors are configured for communicating with a controller for detecting said bars in a retracted position towards said back panel away from said extended position, wherein said retraction sensors are pressure sensors detecting and measuring pressure applied against ends of said bars, position sensors each of which being associated with one bar and wherein said position sensors are configured for communicating with said controller for measuring a retraction distance of said associated bar, and weight sensors each of which being associated with one bar and wherein said weight sensors are configured for communicating with said controller for detecting or measuring pressure applied onto said bars when said parcel is deposited onto said one bar.
5. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 1, wherein said bars are configured for freely sliding towards said back panel under a pressure of said parcel being pushed against said bars.
6. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 1, further comprising a closure for said front aperture constituted of four doors organized in two first doors sliding horizontally in a first vertical plane and in two second doors sliding vertically in a second vertical plane, wherein said two first doors is positioned immediately near said two second doors, and wherein each of said four doors has a surface at least equal to a surface of said front aperture.
7. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 6, wherein said closure is further constituted of a horizontal bottom sliding guide and of a horizontal top sliding guide defining a horizontal sliding movement of said two first doors and of a vertical left sliding guide and of a vertical right sliding guide defining a vertical sliding movement of said two second doors.
8. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 7, wherein said two first doors are articulated and are constituted of blades with a longitudinal dimension equal to a height of said two first doors and in that said two second doors are articulated and are constituted of blades with a longitudinal dimension equal to a width of said two second doors.
9. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 8, wherein said closure is further constituted of motorized axis positioned near each edge of said front aperture and driving a wrapping of each of said four doors.
10. The electronic parcel locker according to claim 8, wherein said closure is further constituted of horizontal sliding guide sections prolonging said horizontal bottom sliding guide and said horizontal top sliding guide for directing said two first doors for wrapping around said internal structure and of second sliding guide sections prolonging said vertical left sliding guide and said vertical right sliding guide for directing said two second doors for wrapping around said internal structure wherein sliding sections parallel to and near said back panel among said horizontal sliding guide sections are parallel and wherein sliding sections parallel to and near said back panel among said second sliding guide sections are parallel.
11. A method for parcel deposit into or parcel removal from an electronic parcel locker constituted of two side panels, of a bottom panel, of a top panel and of a back panel fastened together and defining a front aperture of said electronic parcel locker, and of an array of bars with a same length regularly aligned essentially perpendicularly to said back panel and selectively movable between extended positions and retractable positions, the method including depositing a parcel by selectively moving from said extended positions, where a front end of said array of bars is aligned with said front aperture, to said retractable positions where bars of said array of bars corresponding to a shape of the parcel to be deposited in said electronic parcel locker are retracted towards said back panel for defining a temporary compartment exactly adapted to said shape of the parcel.
12. The method for parcel deposit into or parcel removal from an electronic parcel locker according to claim 11, further including actively maintaining in said extended position, by actuators, rows of said bars delimiting said temporary compartment during a deposit or a removal.
13. The method for parcel deposit into or parcel removal from an electronic parcel locker according to claim 11, further including: pushing partially out said parcel with said bars set in motion by actuators for guiding removal of said parcel, after a validated removal of said parcel, the validated removal validated by a controller, moving said bars in said extended positions, and as long as removal of said parcels is not completed, actively maintaining in said extended positions said bars which were in said extended positions previously to initiating removal of said parcel.
14. The method for parcel deposit into or parcel removal from an electronic parcel locker according to claim 11, further including: retracting said bars according to a length of said parcel for depositing said parcel, and as long as deposit of said parcels is not validated by a controller, actively maintaining in said extended positions, by actuators, said bars which were in said extended positions previously to initiating deposit of said parcel.
15. The method for parcel deposit into or parcel removal from an electronic parcel locker according to claim 11, further including determining a size of said parcel deposited in front of a group of said bars by calculating a section of said parcel based on said group of said bars detected by retraction sensors and by calculating a length of said parcel based on a retraction distance of said group of said bars measured by position sensors.
</claims>
</document>
