<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,H04L12/40,H04L12/861
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING VOYAGER TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
DIDI RESEARCH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRIYADARSHI, ALOK
SHEN, YUZHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Reading messages in a shared memory architecture for a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
A method of communicating messages between modules in a system on a vehicle, each module configured as a publisher node and/or subscriber node, the publisher nodes and the subscriber nodes collectively forming a plurality of nodes that communicate in the operation of the vehicle. One method includes communicating, by a subscriber node, with a registry for information to determine if a new message associated with a first topic is available for reading, determining, by each subscriber node, if a new message associated with the first topic is available for reading, in response to determining a new message associated with the first topic is available for reading, reading from the registry location information indicating where the first message is stored in a first message buffer, and reading, by each subscriber node the first message from the first message buffer using the location information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of communicating messages between a plurality of modules in a system on a vehicle, each module of the plurality of modules configured as a publisher node that writes messages, a subscriber node that reads messages, or both a publisher node and a subscriber node, the publisher nodes and the subscriber nodes collectively forming a plurality of nodes that communicate in the operation of the vehicle, the method comprising: communicating, by each of a first group of subscriber nodes comprising at least one subscriber node, with a registry to read information for determining if a new message associated with a first topic is available for reading, each of the first group subscriber nodes configured to read messages associated with the first topic; determining, by each of the first group subscriber nodes, if a new message associated with the first topic is available for reading; in response to determining a new message associated with the first topic is available for reading, reading from the registry, by each of the first group subscriber nodes, location information indicating where the first message is stored in a first message buffer associated with the first topic and configured to store messages associated with the first topic, the first message buffer being one of a plurality of buffers, each of the plurality of buffers being associated with a different topic and implemented in a shared memory location in a shared message communication system accessible to each of the first group subscriber nodes; and reading, by each of the first group subscriber nodes, the first message from the first message buffer using the location information indicating where the first message is stored.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein communicating, with the registry for information to determine if a new message associated with the first topic is available, comprises reading from the registry, by each first group subscriber node, new message information associated with the first topic and comparing the new message information from the registry to read message information stored at each of the first group subscriber nodes.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the new message information comprises a new message counter, the method further comprising incrementing the new message counter when a message associated with the first topic is written to the first message buffer.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the read message information for each of the first group subscriber nodes comprises a read message counter, the method further comprising incrementing, by each of the first group of subscriber nodes, its read message counter when it reads a new message related to the first topic from the first message buffer.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein comparing the new message information from the registry to read message information comprises comparing, by each subscriber node of the first group of subscriber nodes, the new message counter of the registry with the read message counter of the subscriber node.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining a new message associated with the first topic is available for reading when the new counter message is greater than the read message counter.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of modules is implemented on at least one processor.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first group of subscriber nodes includes at least two subscriber nodes.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: communicating with the registry, by each of a second group of subscriber nodes configured to read messages associated with a second topic, for information to determine if a new message associated with the second topic is available for reading, the second group of subscriber nodes comprising at least one subscriber node; determining, by each second group subscriber node, if a new message associated with the second topic is available for reading; in response to determining a new message associated with the second topic is available, reading from the registry, by each of the second groups subscriber nodes, location information indicating where the second message is stored in a second memory buffer, the second memory buffer associated with the second topic and configured to store messages associated with the second topic; and reading, by each of the second group subscriber nodes, the second message from the second message buffer using the location information indicating where the second message is stored.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein at least one subscriber node in the first group of subscriber nodes is also a subscriber node in the second group of subscriber nodes.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the reading from the registry and from the first message bus comprises reading from the registry and from the first message bus via a communication bus configured such that subscriber nodes read location information from the registry and read messages from the first message buffer without utilizing a kernel of the system.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the registry is configured to store location information indicating a communication address of the first message buffer and location information indicating a memory location on the first message buffer where the first message is stored.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the registry is further configured to store information associated with messages stored on the plurality of message buffers indicative of the topic each stored message is associated with.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the registry is configured to store location information comprising data indicating a communication address of the first message buffer and the memory location of the first message buffer where the first message is stored.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the registry is configured to store location information comprising data indicating a communication address of the first and second message buffer, a memory location on the first message buffer where the first message is stored, and a memory location on the second message buffer where the second message is stored.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the location information stored by the registry for each message comprises data indicating the frequency that each message associated with a particular topic is published.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating periodically, by each of the subscriber nodes in the first group of subscriber nodes, with the registry to determine if a new message is available for reading.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein communicating periodically, for each subscriber node, comprises communicating with the registry to determine if a new message is available for reading at a pre-determined frequency.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein communicating periodically, for each subscriber node, comprises communicating with the registry to determine if a new message is available for reading at a pre-determined frequency which is different for at least two of subscriber nodes.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein communicating periodically comprises, for at least one of the subscriber nodes, communicating with the registry to determine if a new message is available for reading at a dynamically determined frequency.
</claims>
</document>
