<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KRISHNAMURTHY, SATYANARAYANA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAMURTHY, SATYANARAYANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62840279
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for natural language generation
</title>

<abstract>
The system includes receiving one or more semantic items and a language object corresponding to the language in which the text is to be generated. The system further includes identifying one or more sentence types and one or more sentence part types for each identified sentence type. The system includes obtaining a vocabulary class for the each identified sentence part type by querying the word to sentence part type association rule, obtains one or more vocabulary class features for each of the sentence part type by querying the word to sentence part type association rule. The system further includes creating and building a natural language phrase object for each sentence part type. The system further includes deriving an expression for each built natural language phrase object. The System further includes arranging sequentially all the derived expressions using a word separation character between every pair of successive expressions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating a text based on one or more semantic items from a knowledge repository, the system comprising: a processor; a memory that is communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises a repository of language objects for natural languages supported by the system; and a program stored in the memory for execution by the processor, the program configured for: receiving one or more semantic items and a language object corresponding to a language in which the text is to be generated, wherein the one or more semantic items is from a knowledge repository and wherein the language object is from a language object repository, wherein the one or more semantic items conform to a comprehensive knowledge representation format, and the language object conforms to a comprehensive language template, and wherein the one or more semantic items comprise structural content and attributes; identifying one or more sentence types for each received semantic item, based on a subtype of the semantic item and a structural content of the semantic item; identifying one or more sentence part types for the each identified sentence type, by querying the sentence type to sentence part type mappings in the language object; obtaining a vocabulary class for the each identified sentence part type by querying a word to sentence part type association rule; obtaining one or more vocabulary class features for each of the sentence part types by querying the word to sentence part type association rule; identifying, for each identified sentence part type, the corresponding one or more semantic items, either contained within the said each received semantic item or connected to the said each received semantic item; creating a natural language phrase object to be used in the text to be generated, for the each sentence part type; fully building the each created natural language phrase object using the structural content and attributes of the identified semantic item or items; deriving an expression for the each built natural language phrase object as a word form or a sequence of multiple words, appropriate for the identified vocabulary class and vocabulary class features, using one or more root words for the semantic items in the language to be used for text generation; applying the deriving step recursively for components of the natural language phrase objects; arranging sequentially the derived expressions using a word separation character, provided by the language object, between every pair of successive expressions, in an order dictated by the position in sentence value in a wordFeatureValueSet for the sentence part type within the word to sentence part type association rule, to generate one or more sentences; appending an appropriate sentence termination character, as read from the language object.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the each received semantic item may contain within itself connections to other semantic items in the knowledge repository and such other semantic items are referred to as connected semantic items.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein for each semantic item to be used in building a created phrase object, the system reads the root word corresponding to the received language object.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein for each identified sentence type, the system identifies the connected semantic items to be used in text generation, and, on the other, any of the sentence part types needed, which may have been, in part or whole, redefined in the language object, and the sequence, if any, in which those sentence part types should appear, predefined in the language object.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the system generates the text for the identified sentence type by integrating the sequence of multiple words using the word separation character, predefined in the received language object, between every pair of successive word sequences.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system uses the root word and builds the word form corresponding to the identified vocabulary class and vocabulary class features.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein deriving the word form by starting with the root word under the input language object, which is a value for ISO code of the input language object in an expressions map within the identified one or more corresponding semantic items, and using the mechanisms available in the input language object to achieve or realize the obtained vocabulary class features.
8. A method for generating text using one or more semantic items from a knowledge repository, the method comprising the steps of: receiving one or more semantic items and a language object corresponding to a language in which the text is to be generated, wherein the one or more semantic items is from a knowledge repository and wherein the language object is from a language object repository, wherein the one or more semantic items conform to a comprehensive knowledge representation format, and the language object conforms to a comprehensive language template, and wherein the one or more semantic items comprise structural content and attributes; identifying one or more sentence types for each received semantic item, based on a subtype of the semantic item and a structural content of the semantic item; identifying one or more sentence part types for the each identified sentence type, by querying the sentence type to sentence part type mappings in the language object; obtaining a vocabulary class for the each identified sentence part type by querying a word to sentence part type association rules; obtaining one or more vocabulary class features for each of the sentence part type by querying the word to sentence part type association rule; identifying, for each identified sentence part type, the corresponding one or more semantic items, either contained within the said each received semantic item or related to the said each received semantic item; creating a natural language phrase object to be used in the text to be generated, for the each sentence part type; fully building the each created natural language phrase object using the structural content and attributes of the identified semantic item or items; deriving an expression for the each built natural language phrase object as a word form or a sequence of multiple words, appropriate for the identified vocabulary class and vocabulary class features, using one or more root words for the semantic items in the language to be used for text generation; applying the deriving step recursively for components of the natural language phrase objects; arranging sequentially the derived expressions using a word separation character, provided by the language object, between every pair of successive expressions, in an order dictated by the position in sentence value in a wordFeatureValueSet for the sentence part type within the word to sentence part type association rule, to generate one or more sentences; appending an appropriate sentence termination character, as read from the language object.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the each received semantic item may contain within itself connections to other semantic items in the knowledge repository and such other semantic items are referred to as connected semantic items.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein for each semantic item to be used in building the created phrase object, the method reads the root word corresponding to the received language object.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein for each identified sentence type, the method identifies the connected semantic items to be used in text generation, and, on the other, any of the sentence part types needed, which may have been, in part or whole, redefined in the language object, and the sequence, if any, in which those sentence part types should appear, predefined in the language object.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the method for text generation generates the text for the identified sentence type by integrating the sequence of multiple words using the word separation character, predefined in the received language object, between every pair of successive word sequences.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the method uses the root word and builds the word form corresponding to the identified vocabulary class and vocabulary class features.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein deriving the word form by starting with the root word under the input language object, which is the value for ISO code of the input language object in an expressions map within the identified one or more corresponding semantic items, and using the mechanisms available in the input language object to achieve or realize the obtained vocabulary class features.
</claims>
</document>
