<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YAMAUCHI YASUNOBU
IMOTO, KAZUNORI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67541672
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device and method for determining job types based on worker movements
</title>

<abstract>
A determination device according to an embodiment includes one or more processors. The processors identify a worker position. The processors identify a job area which includes the worker position. The processors select, from among a plurality of determiners meant for determining job details of persons from movement information indicating movements of persons, at least one determiner associated with the job area. The processors generate worker movement information indicating movements of a worker. The processors use the at least one selected determiner and determine a job type indicating job details of the worker based on the worker movement information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A determination device comprising one or more processors configured to: identify a worker position; identify a job area which includes the worker position; from among a plurality of determiners meant for determining job details of persons from movement information indicating movements of persons, select at least one determiner associated with the job area; generate worker movement information indicating movements of a worker; train the plurality of determiners based on the worker movement information and the job area; and use the at least one selected determiner and determine a job type indicating job details of the worker based on the worker movement information.
2. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein in identifying of the job area, the processors identify, as the job area, a single partial area which, from among a plurality of partial areas set in advance, includes the worker position.
3. The determination device according to claim 2, further comprising a result storing unit that stores the job type determined at regular intervals and the job area identified at the regular intervals in a corresponding manner to timing of movement of the worker.
4. The determination device according to claim 3, wherein the processors are further configured to: display, in a display device, a target range image indicating a target range for determining job details of the worker and a plurality of partial area images indicating the plurality of partial areas in the target range, wherein for each of the plurality of partial areas, the processors calculate a job time for which the worker performed job within a predetermined job period, and display the plurality of partial area images further indicating the calculated job time.
5. The determination device according to claim 3, wherein the processors are further configured to: display, in a display device, a target range image indicating a target range for determining job details of the worker and a plurality of partial area images indicating the plurality of partial areas in the target range, wherein when a ratio of coincidence of the job type in two neighboring partial areas is equal to or greater than a predetermined value within a predetermined job period, the processors display a single partial area formed by integrating the two neighboring partial areas.
6. The determination device according to claim 2, wherein the processors are further configured to: when a ratio of coincidence of the job type in two neighboring partial areas is equal to or greater than a predetermined value within a predetermined job period, reconstruct the plurality of partial areas in such a way that the two neighboring partial areas are integrated into a single partial area.
7. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein in determining of the job type, the processors calculate a plurality of candidate types representing candidates for job type of the worker, calculate a degree of reliability of each of the plurality of candidate types, and output a candidate type having a highest degree of reliability as the job type.
8. The determination device according to claim 7, wherein the processors are further configured to: display, in a display device, a candidate image in which the plurality of candidates is arranged in descending order of the degree of reliability.
9. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein, at regular intervals, the processors identify the worker position, identify the job area, select the at least one determiner, generate the worker movement information, and determine the job type.
10. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein the processors are further configured to: display, in a display device, a target range image indicating a target range for determining job details of the worker, a worker mark indicating the worker position in the target range, and a determination result image indicating the determined job type.
11. The determination device according to claim 1, further comprising: a movement storing unit that stores the generated worker movement information in association with the determined job type.
12. The determination device according to claim 11, wherein the movement storing unit further stores the identified job area in association with the job type, and in training, the processors train at least one determiner associated with the job area.
13. The determination device according to claim 12, wherein the processors are further configured to: present, to a user, the determined job type and a plurality of candidate types representing candidates for job type of the worker; and receive a selection of one candidate type from among the plurality of candidate types, wherein when the selection of a candidate type different from the job type presented to the user by the input receiving unit is received, in determining of the job type, the processors output the selected candidate type as new job type, and when the selection of a candidate type different from the presented job type is received, in learning, the processors use the new job type and train the determiner used in determination.
14. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to update the plurality of determiners based on a result of training.
15. The determination device according to claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to display, in a display device, a target range image comprising: a determination result image; a plurality of partial area images; and a carrier device image.
16. The determination device according to claim 15, wherein the target range image further comprises: a worker mark; manufacturing device images; and a type image.
17. The determination device according to claim 15, wherein the plurality of partial area images comprise one or more integrated partial areas that merge two or more neighboring partial areas based on a job type coincidence ratio.
18. A determination method implemented for determining job type, which indicates job details of a worker, using an information processing device, the determination method comprising: identifying a worker position; identifying, by the information processing device, a job area which includes the worker position; selecting, from among a plurality of determiners meant for determining job details of persons from movement information indicating movements of persons, at least one determiner associated with the job area; generating worker movement information indicating movements of a worker; training the plurality of determiners based on the worker movement information and the job area; and using the at least one selected determiner and determining job type indicating job details of the worker based on the worker movement information.
19. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium containing a program executed by a computer, the program causing the computer to execute: identifying a worker position; identifying, by the information processing device, a job area which includes the worker position; selecting, from among a plurality of determiners meant for determining job details of persons from movement information indicating movements of persons, at least one determiner associated with the job area; generating worker movement information indicating movements of a worker; training the plurality of determiners based on the worker movement information and the job area; and using the at least one selected determiner and determining job type indicating job details of the worker based on the worker movement information.
20. The determination device according to claim 19, wherein training the plurality of determiners comprises training the plurality of determiners based on movement information stored in a movement storing unit and a correct job type associated with the job area.
</claims>
</document>
