<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/56,G06F21/57
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPOMNI
AppOmni, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOBY, BRIAN
O'Connor, Brendan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68694242
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic computer system change monitoring and security gap detection system
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system analyzes the state of a computer system to determine whether that state violates one or more security goals from a particular perspective, such as a particular user account or role. The system takes into account a combination of access rights, permissions, and entitlements to determine whether the state of the computer system violates any of the security goals. In response to determining that at least one of the security goals is violated, the computer system may change the state of the computer system so that it no longer violates the security goals, or prevent the computer system from being put into that state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by at least one computer processor executing computer program instructions tangibly stored in at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium, the method comprising: (1) receiving data representing a plurality of security rules; (2) at a configuration management engine, establishing a perspective into the computer system, comprising logging into the computer system using a particular set of privileges, the particular set of privileges including at least one of access rights, permissions, and entitlements associated with at least one user; (3) at the configuration management engine, changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system, comprising providing a stimulus to the computer system from the established perspective; (4) receiving data representing the modified state of the computer system; (5) determining, based on the plurality of security rules and the data representing the modified state of the computer system, whether the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective; and (6) generating output indicating whether the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (7) performing an action in the computer system in response to determining that the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing the action in the computer system comprises changing the modified state of the computer system.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein (7) comprises changing the modified state of the computer system to a second state so that the second state does not violate the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the modified state of the computer system comprises a potential state of the computer system, wherein (4) comprises simulating changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create the modified state of the computer system, and wherein the method further comprises: (7) preventing the computer system from being put into the potential state in response to determining that the modified state of the computer system violates the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the modified state of the computer system comprises a potential state of the computer system, and wherein (5) comprises using machine learning to predict whether the potential state would violate at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein (5) comprises determining whether the modified state of the computer system satisfies a criterion of at least one of the plurality of security rules.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the stimulus to the computer system comprises attempting to access a resource in the computer system from the established perspective.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the data representing the modified state of the computer system comprises data representing a configuration of the computer system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the state of the computer system comprises an actual state of the computer system, and wherein changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system comprises changing the actual state of the computer system from the perspective to create an actual modified state of the computer system.
11. The method of claim 10: wherein (5) comprises determining that the modified state violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective, and wherein the method further comprises: (7) changing the modified state of the computer system from the perspective to create a further modified state of the computer system, wherein the further modified state does not violate the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the state of the computer system comprises a simulated state of the computer system, and wherein changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system comprises changing the simulated state of the computer system from the perspective to create a simulated modified state of the computer system.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one user consists of one user, and wherein logging into the computer system using the particular set of privileges comprises logging into an account of the one user.
14. A system comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium containing computer program instructions executable by at least one computer processor to perform a method, the method comprising: (1) receiving data representing a plurality of security rules; (2) at a configuration management engine, establishing a perspective into the computer system, comprising logging into the computer system using a particular set of privileges, the particular set of privileges including at least one of access rights, permissions, and entitlements associated with at least one user; (3) at the configuration management engine, changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system, comprising providing a stimulus to the computer system from the established perspective; (4) receiving data representing the modified state of the computer system; (5) determining, based on the plurality of security rules and the data representing the modified state of the computer system, whether the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective; and (6) generating output indicating whether the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: (7) performing an action in the computer system in response to determining that the modified state of the computer system violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein performing the action in the computer system comprises changing the modified state of the computer system.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein (7) comprises changing the modified state of the computer system to a second state so that the second state does not violate the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the modified state of the computer system comprises a potential state of the computer system, wherein (4) comprises simulating changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create the modified state of the computer system, and wherein the method further comprises: (7) preventing the computer system from being put into the potential state in response to determining that the modified state of the computer system violates the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the modified state of the computer system comprises a potential state of the computer system, and wherein (5) comprises using machine learning to predict whether the potential state would violate at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein (5) comprises determining whether the modified state of the computer system satisfies a criterion of at least one of the plurality of security rules.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein providing the stimulus to the computer system comprises attempting to access a resource in the computer system from the established perspective.
22. The system of claim 14, wherein the data representing the modified state of the computer system comprises data representing a configuration of the computer system.
23. The system of claim 14, wherein the state of the computer system comprises an actual state of the computer system, and wherein changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system comprises changing the actual state of the computer system from the perspective to create an actual modified state of the computer system.
24. The system of claim 23: wherein (5) comprises determining that the modified state violates at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective, and wherein the method further comprises: (7) changing the modified state of the computer system from the perspective to create a further modified state of the computer system, wherein the further modified state does not violate the at least one of the plurality of security rules from the established perspective.
25. The system of claim 14, wherein the state of the computer system comprises a simulated state of the computer system, and wherein changing the state of the computer system from the perspective to create a modified state of the computer system comprises changing the simulated state of the computer system from the perspective to create a simulated modified state of the computer system.
26. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one user consists of one user, and wherein logging into the computer system using the particular set of privileges comprises logging into an account of the one user.
</claims>
</document>
