<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/0408,H04B7/06,H04W16/28,H04W24/04,H04W24/10,H04W36/00,H04W72/04,H04W74/08,H04W88/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKOUM, SALAM
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
WANG, XIAOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63583285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitating enhanced beam management in a wireless communication system
</title>

<abstract>
Enhanced beam management for a wireless communication system is provided. In one example, a method comprises: determining, by a device comprising a processor, first beam information for a selected first beam of beams associated with a base station device, wherein the selected first beam is for downlink transmission; determining, by the device, second beam information for a selected second beam of the beams associated with the base station device, wherein the selected second beam is an alternative to the selected first beam for transmission of downlink data to the device, and the determining the second beam information is performed during a random access channel procedure; and transmitting, by the device, to a network device, the first beam information and the second beam information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a device comprising a processor, first beam information for a selected first beam of beams; determining, by the device, second beam information for a selected second beam of the beams, wherein the determining the second beam information is performed during a random-access channel procedure, wherein the random-access channel procedure comprises a procedure to re-establish a connection for the device after failure of a communication channel to which the device was connected; and transmitting, by the device, the first beam information and the second beam information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message comprising an identity of the device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the selected second beam is employed by the device for downlink transmission in the random-access channel procedure.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the second beam information is used to switch the downlink transmission for the selected first beam to the selected second beam based on a determination that the selected second beam satisfies a defined criterion, and wherein the defined criterion is whether a power of the selected first beam is below a defined threshold, or a load of the selected first beam is greater than a defined load.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the second beam information comprises measuring signal strengths of the beams.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message employed to transmit identity information for the device on an uplink channel.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the first beam information for the selected first beam comprises selecting a synchronization signal block that results in a highest received power of a reference signal received by the device.
8. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a device, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining first beam information for a selected first beam of beams; determining second beam information for a selected second beam of the beams, wherein the determining the second beam information is performed during an access channel procedure, and wherein the access channel procedure comprises a procedure to re-establish a connection for the device after failure of a communication channel to which the device was connected; and transmitting the first beam information and the second beam information.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message comprising an identity of the device.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the selected second beam is employed by the device for downlink transmission in the access channel procedure.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the second beam information is used to switch the downlink transmission for the selected first beam to the selected second beam based on a determination that the selected second beam satisfies a defined criterion, and wherein the defined criterion is whether a power of the selected first beam is below a defined threshold, or a load of the selected first beam is greater than a defined load.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the determining the second beam information comprises measuring signal strengths of the beams.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message employed to transmit identity information for the device on an uplink channel.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the determining the first beam information for the selected first beam comprises selecting a synchronization signal block that results in a highest received power of a reference signal received by the device.
15. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining first beam information for a selected first beam of beams; determining second beam information for a selected second beam of the beams, wherein the determining the second beam information is performed during a random-access channel procedure, and wherein the random-access channel procedure comprises a procedure to re-establish a connection for the apparatus of a communication channel to which the apparatus was connected; and transmitting the first beam information and the second beam information.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message comprising an identity of the apparatus.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the selected second beam is employed by the apparatus for downlink transmission in the random-access channel procedure.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the second beam information is used to switch the downlink transmission for the selected first beam to the selected second beam based on a determination that the selected second beam satisfies a defined criterion, and wherein the defined criterion is whether a power of the selected first beam is below a defined threshold, or a load of the selected first beam is greater than a defined load.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the determining the second beam information comprises measuring signal strengths of the beams.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the transmitting the second beam information comprises transmitting the second beam information in a message employed to transmit identity information for the apparatus via an uplink channel.
</claims>
</document>
