<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/28,G06F16/901,G06F17/10,G06F17/30,G06N10/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KYNDI
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAJUMDAR, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56978650
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive memory graph indexing, storage and retrieval
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a fast approximate as well as exact hierarchical network storage and retrieval system and method for encoding and indexing graphs or networks as well as for identifying substructure matches or analogs within graph data. Cognitive Memory encodes graphs via generalized combinatorial maps and a new quantum-inspired Q-Hashing algorithm to summarize local structures of the graph along with a contraction and graph property calculation to build an index data structure called the Cognitive Signature for property based, analog based or structure or sub-structure based search. The system and method of the present invention is ideally suited to store and index all or parts or substructures or analogs of graphs as well as dynamically changing graphs such as traffic graphs or flows and motion picture sequences of graphs. The system and method has the advantage that properties of the Cognitive Signature of the graph can be used in correlations to the properties of the underlying data making the system ideal for semantic indexing of massive scale graph data sets.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium including therein a data structure, the data structure comprising a Cognitive signature including: a field to identify a contraction level of a plurality of contraction levels of a network; an entry for a Globally Unique Identity Designation (GUID) code, the GUID code uniquely identifying the network; a field to identify a function value computed on the contraction level of the network; a partition index corresponding to a sub-graph of the network, the network being partitioned into a plurality of sub-graphs based on Q-Medoids in equilibrium with force potentials applied among nodes of the network; a distance estimating vector between each sub-graph of the network with other sub-graphs of the network; a hash associated with each sub-graph of the network, the hash being generated using a virtual particle interactions among nodes of the each sub-graph, the virtual particle interactions being affected by a shell boundary; a field to include a local Bloom filter corresponding to a range of radii of a Q-Medoid of a sub-graph, wherein the virtual particle interactions among the nodes of the each sub-graph are determined by: selecting a Q-Medoid at random, setting a shape of the shell boundary and initializing parameters of the hash of the Q-Medoid, iteratively updating an angular phase function for the virtual particle interactions until all nodes within a range of radii of the selected Q-Medoid have been processed, and generating the hash that includes a concatenation of double applications of the angular phase function for the virtual particle interactions.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the Cognitive signature further comprises a set T of an ordered list of first vectors, each vector corresponding to the contraction level of the network; a set G of a list of second vectors, each second vector corresponding to the contraction level of the network; a field F to include a global Bloom filter, the global Bloom filter being computed based on the set T and a corresponding first threshold vector, and the set G and a corresponding second threshold vector; a field for a discrete unlabeled network representation code (DCNRC); a field for a discrete colored network representation (DCNRC); and a field for a pointer to a next Cognitive signature.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 2, wherein the Cognitive signature further comprises a field for a contraction tree operator expressions, the contraction tree operator indicating whether the network is contracted based on a contraction rule.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the Cognitive signature is produced each time the network is contracted, and the local Bloom filters is computed once.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the hash is based on a random walk of virtual particles among the nodes of the each sub-graph.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein a shape of the shell boundary corresponds to a quantum probability density functional.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the local Bloom filter is computed based on a plurality of hashes associated with the Q-Medoid of the sub-graph, wherein each hash of the plurality of hashes is set by a respective unique initial condition.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the DUNRC is computed based on a connectivity matrix of the network, the connectivity matrix being computed based on the distance estimating vector of each sub-graph, and the hash associated with each sub-graphs of the network.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the partition index further includes that the plurality of sub-graphs is partitioned based on the nodes of the network being in equilibrium with the force potentials, wherein between nodes that share an edge experience a respective force potential is attractive, and between nodes that do not share an edge a respective force potential is repulsive.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein a total amount of repulsive force potentials of the network equals a total amount of attractive force potentials of the network.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the partition index further includes that the plurality of sub-graphs are clustered in zones according to a networks structure index based on a distance to zone measure among respective nodes in the zones.
12. A method of encoding a network into a data structure, which is a Cognitive signature, the method being executed by a computer including circuitry, the method comprising: inputting a network; identifying a contraction level of a plurality of contraction levels of the network; generating a unique Globally Unique Identity Designation (GUID) code that identifies the network; identifying a function value computed on the contraction level of the network; partitioning the network into a plurality of sub-graphs based on Q-Medoids in equilibrium with force potentials applied among nodes of the network; estimating distance vectors between each sub-graph of the network with other sub-graphs of the network; computing a hash that is associated with each sub-graph of the network; and computing a local Bloom filter corresponding to the second parameter of each sub-graph, the local Bloom filter being computed based on the estimated distance vectors and the hash.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the hash is generated using virtual particle interactions among nodes of the each sub-graph, the virtual particle interactions being affected by a shell boundary.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating an ordered list of first vectors in a field T, each first vector corresponding to the contraction level of the network; generating a list of second vectors in a field G, each second vector corresponding to the contraction level of the network; calculating a global Bloom filter, the global Bloom filter being computed based on the set T and a corresponding first threshold vector, and the set G and a corresponding second threshold vector; generating a discrete unlabeled network representation code (DUNRC) and a discrete colored network representation (DCNRC); and encoding the network into the data structure based on the local Bloom filter, the global Bloom filter, the DUNRC, and the DCNRC.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: producing the Cognitive signature each time the network is contracted, and computing the local Bloom filters and the distance estimating vector only once.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the partitioning of the network into the plurality of sub-graphs further includes that the plurality of sub-graphs is partitioned based on the nodes of the network being in equilibrium with the force potentials, wherein between nodes that share an edge experience a respective force potential is attractive, and between nodes that do not share an edge a respective force potential is repulsive.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the partitioning of the network into the plurality of sub-graphs further includes that a total amount of repulsive force potentials of the network equals a total amount of attractive force potentials of the network.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the partitioning of the network into the plurality of sub-graphs further includes that the plurality of sub-graphs are clustered in zones according to a networks structure index based on a distance to zone measure among respective nodes in the zones.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein computing the hash that is associated with the each sub-graph of the network includes: computing the hash that is associated with the each sub-graph of the network and being associated with the estimated distance vectors, the hash being generated using virtual particle interactions among nodes of the each sub-graph, the virtual particle interactions being affected by a shell boundary.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the computing of the hash is based on a random walk of virtual particles among the nodes of the each sub-graph.
</claims>
</document>
