<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F16/38,G06F16/903,G06F16/9032,G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06Q10/10,G09B5/02,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHILAKAMARRI, PRADEEP
KOHLMEIER, BERNHARD S. J.
TAYLOR, DOUGLAS MAXWELL
EMMONS, JULIANNE MARIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61009809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Research application and service
</title>

<abstract>
A research application and service are provided. The research application can be a mobile application, a feature within a word processing software, or an extension of a web-browsing software, through which a user can indicate a subject of research or assignment and receive a list of research topics from which credible research sources can be searched. The application is used to browse research sources and select particular ones to a collection. The application sends the data regarding selected research sources to be stored and accessed later via the research service. When a user is subsequently in a productivity application/authoring canvas, the productivity application can access the data collected by the user. Feedback on what, if any, research sources are included in an authoring canvas is used by the research service to modify the research sources presented by the research application when the topic is next selected by that or other users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of mobile research, the method comprising: receiving a selection of a research topic from a list of research topics provided to a research application on a mobile device; generating a list of research sources from a set of vetted research sources associated with the research topic; ranking and sorting the list of the research sources based at least in part on one or more of popularity according to community frequency data, a user identifier for the research application, and location information associated with the mobile device; providing, to the mobile device, the list of the research sources sorted by rank and at least a preview or excerpt of content from the research sources; receiving a selection of at least some of the content associated with a research source of the list of research sources; storing the selection of the at least some of the content, a citation for the research source, and the user identifier in a storage resource; updating the community frequency data to reflect the selection of the at least some of the content; receiving an indication that the selected content is inserted into an authoring canvas; and updating the community frequency data to reflect the insertion of the selected content.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a set of suggested research topics, the set of suggested research topics being based at least in part on one or more of the user identifier or the location information.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the suggested research topics based at least in part on the user identifier include one or more topics from at least one of user history and a social graph relationship with respect to the user identifier.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the list of research topics provided to the research application comprise the set of suggested research topics, wherein the selection of the research topic from the list of research topics comprises a selection of one of the suggested research topics.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request from the research application to view collected research associated with the user identifier; and providing, to the mobile device, at least the selection of the at least some of the content and the citation for the research source.
6. A system for mobile research, comprising: a processing system; one or more storage media; instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage media that, when executed by the processing system, direct the processing system to: receive a selection of research topic from a list of research topics provided to a research application on a mobile device; generate a list of research sources from a set of vetted research sources associated with the research topic; rank and sort the list of the research sources based at least in part on one or more of popularity according to community frequency data, a user identifier for the research application, and location information associated with the mobile device; provide, to the mobile device, the list of the research sources sorted by rank and at least a preview or excerpt of content from the research sources; receive a selection of at least some of the content associated with a research source of the list of research sources; store the selection of the at least some of the content, a citation for the research source, and the user identifier in a storage resource; update the community frequency data to reflect the selection of the at least some of the content; receive an indication that the selected content is inserted into an authoring canvas; and update the community frequency data to reflect the insertion of the selected content.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to: provide a set of suggested research topics, the set of suggested research topics being based at least in part on one or more of the user identifier or the location information.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the suggested research topics based at least in part on the user identifier include one or more topics from at least one of user history and a social graph relationship.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the list of research topics provided to the research application comprise the set of suggested research topics, wherein the selection of the research topic from the list of research topics comprises a selection of one of the suggested research topics.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to: receive a request from the research application to view collected research associated with the user identifier; and provide, to the mobile device, at least the selection of the at least some of the content and the citation for the research source.
11. One or more computer readable storage media having instructions stored thereon what when executed by a processing system direct the processing system to at least: receive a selection of a research topic from a list of research topics provided to a research application on a mobile device; generate a list of research sources from a set of vetted sources associated with the research topic; rank and sort the list of the research sources based at least in part on one or more of popularity according to community frequency data, a user identifier for the research application, and location information associated with the mobile device; provide, to the mobile device, the list of the research sources sorted by rank and at least a preview or excerpt of content from the research sources; receive a selection of at least some of the content associated with a research source of the list of research sources; store the selection of the at least some of the content, a citation for the research source, and the user identifier in a storage resource; update the community frequency data to reflect the selection of the at least some of the content; receive an indication that the selected content is inserted into an authoring canvas; and update the community frequency data to reflect the insertion of the selected content.
12. The media of claim 11, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: receive a research query input by a user of the research application on the mobile device; and identify a list of possible research topics based on the research query.
13. The media of claim 12, wherein the research query further comprises information regarding a group for the user, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to: provide a set of suggested research topics customized to one or more of the user associated with the user identifier, the community frequency data, and the group for the user.
14. The media of claim 11, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: in response to receiving a request for stored research comprising the user identifier, provide content stored associated with the user identifier, the content including the citation for the research source.
15. The media of claim 11, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: receive a request from the research application to view collected research associated with the user identifier; and provide, to the mobile device, at least the selection of the at least some of the content and the citation for the research source.
16. The media of claim 11, wherein the list of research sources further includes at least one subtopic.
17. The media of claim 11, wherein the list of research sources further includes at least one related research topic.
</claims>
</document>
