<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADSWIZZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIEUWENHUYS, BRUNO
MOCIOIU, VICTOR
GUZIK, FLORIN
DUMITRU, VLAD ANDREI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65360831
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Delivering tailored audio segments within live audio streams
</title>

<abstract>
An online system tailors audio segments for users accessing a live audio stream such that the audio segments can be presented to users during a break of the live audio stream. The audio segment can include interactive content as well as one or both of an audio clip and a standard message, each of which serves as a type of introduction to the interactive content. For each user, the online system analyzes characteristics of the user to determine whether to include the standard message in addition to the audio clip, or to withhold the standard message from the audio segment. Therefore, different users accessing the live audio stream can be appropriately introduced to the interactive content which can improve the likelihood that the users interact with the interactive content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying a type of a selected content selected to be presented at a break point within an audio stream to a user accessing an audio stream; determining that the type of the selected content is of an interactive content; in response to determining that the type of the selected content is of an interactive content, determining that one or more characteristics of a user satisfy a user interaction criterion; determining an interaction score for the user based on a user's prior interactivity with content presented to the user; comparing the interaction score to a threshold interaction value; in response to the comparison indicating that the interaction score is less than the threshold interaction value, assembling an audio segment to include an audio clip, a standard message, and the selected content, wherein the audio clip represents a short audio cue for the selected content, and wherein the standard message represents a verbal message having a length that is longer in duration than the audio clip; in response to comparison indicating that the interaction score is greater than or equal to the threshold interaction value, assembling an audio segment to include the audio clip and the selected content; and providing the assembled audio segment to be presented at the break within the audio stream.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the assembled audio segment further comprises the standard message.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the audio clip in the assembled audio segment is shorter in duration in comparison to the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the standard message precedes the audio clip, and wherein the audio clip further precedes the selected content.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the type of the content is an interactive content, and wherein the standard message identifies an interaction of the interactive content.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether to include a standard message with the selected content for the user comprises: determining whether characteristics of the user satisfy user interaction criteria; and responsive to determining that the characteristics of the user do not satisfy the user interaction criteria, including the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether to include a standard message with the selected content for the user comprises: determining whether characteristics of the user satisfy user interaction criteria; responsive to determining that the characteristics of the user satisfy the user interaction criteria, determining an interaction score for the user; and comparing the interaction score to a threshold interaction value.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: responsive to determining that the interaction score is below the interaction threshold value, including the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the interaction score for the user further comprises: accessing user characteristics of the user, the user characteristics comprising characteristics associated with prior voice recordings provided by the user; and applying a machine learning model to the user characteristics of the user.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a device identifier of a device used by the user; and determining a type of interaction for the selected content based on the device identifier of the device used by the user.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: identify a type of a selected content selected to be presented at a break point within an audio stream to a user accessing an audio stream; determine that the type of the selected content is of an interactive content; in response to the determination that the type of the selected content is of an interactive content, determine that one or more characteristics of a user satisfy a user interaction criterion; determine an interaction score for the user based on a user's prior interactivity with content presented to the user; compare the interaction score to a threshold interaction value; in response to the comparison indicating that the interaction score is less than the threshold interaction value, assembling an audio segment to include an audio clip, a standard message, and the selected content, wherein the audio clip represents a short audio cue for the selected content, and wherein the standard message represents a verbal message having a length that is longer in duration than the audio clip; in response to the comparison indicating that the interaction score is greater than or equal to the threshold interaction value, assembling an audio segment to include the audio clip and the selected content; and provide the assembled audio segment to be presented at the break within the audio stream.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the assembled audio segment further comprises the standard message.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the audio clip in the assembled audio segment is shorter in duration in comparison to the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the standard message precedes the audio clip, and wherein the audio clip further precedes the selected content.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the type of the content is an interactive content, and wherein the standard message identifies an interaction of the interactive content.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to whether to include a standard message with the selected content for the user further comprises instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine whether characteristics of the user satisfy user interaction criteria; and responsive to the determination that the user has not previously interacted with prior content, include the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine whether to include a standard message with the selected content for the user further comprises instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine whether characteristics of the user satisfy user interaction criteria; responsive to the determination that the characteristics of the user satisfy the user interaction criteria, determining an interaction score for the user; and compare the interaction score to a threshold interaction value.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: responsive to the determination that the interaction score is below the interaction threshold value, include the standard message in the assembled audio segment.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the interaction score for the user further comprises instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: access user characteristics of the user, the user characteristics comprising characteristics associated with prior voice recordings provided by the user; and apply a machine learning model to the user characteristics of the user.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive a device identifier of a device used by the user; and determine a type of interaction for the selected content based on the device identifier of the device used by the user.
</claims>
</document>
