<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/24,G06F17/27,G06F40/169,G06F40/226,G06F40/268,G06F40/279,G06F40/284,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G10L15/19
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABBYY PRODUCTION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BULGAKOV, ILYA ALEKSANDROVICH
MATSKEVICH, STEPAN EVGENYEVICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67984252
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information extraction from natural language texts
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for extracting facts from natural language texts. An example method of information extraction comprises extracting, from a natural language text, a first plurality of information objects; extracting, from the natural language text, a second plurality of information objects; identifying a set of conflicting information objects, such that a first information object of the set of conflicting information objects belongs to the first plurality of information objects and a second information object of the set of conflicting information objects belongs to the second plurality of information objects; and producing a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text, by applying, to the set of conflicting information objects, a conflict arbitration function which performs at least one of: modifying the first information object, deleting the first information object, or merging two or more information objects of the set of conflicting information objects.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: extracting, by a computer system, a first plurality of information objects from a natural language text; extracting, from the natural language text, a second plurality of information objects; determining that a first textual annotation associated with a first information object of the first plurality of information objects is overlapping with a second textual annotation associated with a second information object of the second plurality of information objects; applying, to the first information object and the second information object, a conflict arbitration function represented by a machine learning classifier yielding a likelihood of the first information object and the second information object representing a same object.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting the first plurality of information objects is performed by a first information extraction technique and extracting the second plurality of information objects is performed by a second information extraction technique.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: producing a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text; and utilizing the final list of information objects for performing a natural language processing operation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: producing a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text; and representing the final list of information objects by a Resource Definition Framework (RDF) graph.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating a logical condition comprising a first attribute of the first information object and a second attribute of the second information object.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the first information object has a number of attributes of a certain type exceeding a threshold number of attributes of the certain type.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: appending, to a training data set, the natural language text accompanied by metadata comprising definitions and textual annotations of the first information object and the second information object; and training, utilizing the training data set, a machine learning classifier implementing the conflict arbitration function.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a first confidence level associated with the first information object.
9. A computer system, comprising: a memory; a processor, coupled to the memory, the processor configured to: extract a first plurality of information objects from a natural language text; extract, from the natural language text, a second plurality of information objects; determine that a first textual annotation associated with a first information object of the first plurality of information objects is overlapping with a second textual annotation associated with a second information object of the second plurality of information objects; and apply, to the first information object and the second information object, a conflict arbitration function represented by a machine learning classifier yielding a likelihood of the first information object and the second information object representing a same object.
10. The computer system of claim 9, wherein extracting the first plurality of information objects is performed by a first information extraction technique and extracting the second plurality of information objects is performed by a second information extraction technique.
11. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: produce a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text; and utilize the final list of information objects for performing a natural language processing operation.
12. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: produce a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text; and represent the final list of information objects by a Resource Definition Framework (RDF) graph.
13. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: evaluate a logical condition comprising a first attribute of the first information object and a second attribute of the second information object.
14. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: append, to a training data set, the natural language text accompanied by metadata comprising definitions and textual annotations of the first information object and the second information object; and train, utilizing the training data set, a machine learning classifier implementing the conflict arbitration function.
15. The computer system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a first confidence level associated with the first information object.
16. A computer-readable non-transitory storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a computer system, cause the computer system to: extract a first plurality of information objects from a natural language text; extract, from the natural language text, a second plurality of information objects; determine that a first textual annotation associated with a first information object of the first plurality of information objects is overlapping with a second textual annotation associated with a second information object of the second plurality of information objects; and apply, to the first information object and the second information object, a conflict arbitration function represented by a machine learning classifier yielding a likelihood of the first information object and the second information object representing a same object.
17. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 16, wherein extracting the first plurality of information objects is performed by a first information extraction technique and extracting the second plurality of information objects is performed by a second information extraction technique.
18. The computer-readable non-transitory storage medium of claim 16, further comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the computer system, cause the computer system to: produce a final list of information objects extracted from the natural language text; and utilize the final list of information objects for performing a natural language processing operation.
</claims>
</document>
