<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/58,G06F16/583,G06F17/10,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T5/50,G06T7/00,G06T7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UURMI SYSTEMS PVT.
UURMI SYSTEMS PVT.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEDASANI, SHANTI SWARUP
NEELURI, VENKATANATH
BHATLAPENUMARTI, MARUTHI CHANDRASEKHAR
CHANNAPPAYYA, SUMOHANA S
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65993323
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated system and method of retaining images based on a user's feedback on image quality
</title>

<abstract>
An automated system and method for retaining images in a smart phone are disclosed. The system may then determine a no-reference quality score of the image using a PIQUE module. The PIQUE module utilizes block level features of the image to determine the no-reference quality score. The system may present the image and the no-reference quality score to the user and accept a feedback towards quality of the image. The system may utilize a supervised learning model for continually learning a user's perception of quality of the image, the no-reference quality score determined by the PIQUE module, and the user feedback. Based on the learning, the supervised learning model may adapt the no-reference quality score and successively the image may either be retained or isolated for deletion, based on the adapted quality score and a predefined threshold range.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automated method of retaining images based on a user's feedback on image quality, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor, an image from one of a camera and an archive of images; determining, by the processor, a no-reference quality score of the image based on weights of blocks of the image, wherein the weights of the blocks are determined based on features of the image; presenting, by an interface, at least one of the image, the no-reference quality score, or a spatial quality map of the image, to the user; receiving, by the processor, a user feedback towards validation of the no-reference quality score of the image; continually learning, by a learning model, user's perception of quality of the image based on processing of the image, the no-reference quality score, and the user feedback; adjusting, by the processor, the no-reference quality score based on the user's perception of the quality of the image; monitoring, by the processor, deviations from the user's perception of the quality of the image and errors introduced during the continuous learning; and retaining, by the processor, the image while the no-reference quality score of the image lies between a predefined threshold range, else isolating the image for not to be retained.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the no-reference quality score is determined while the processor is present in an idle mode.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the no-reference quality score is determined by a Perception based Image Quality Evaluator (PIQUE) module using the relation, wherein Dsk is distortion assigned to a block of the image, NSA is number of spatially active blocks of the image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the no-reference quality score ranges from 0 to 1.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the features comprise derivatives of standard deviation of edge segments of divisively normalized images.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the user feedback is accepted while a system used for retaining the image enters into an active mode from an idle mode.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the user feedback is a score ranging from 1 to 5.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the learning model continually learns the user's perception of the quality of the image based on training data generated from user's feedbacks towards quality of a plurality of images comprising dissimilar data content.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the spatial quality map illustrates at least one of an amount and type of distortion present in the blocks of the image.
10. A system for retaining images based on a user's feedback on image quality, the system comprising: a processor; a camera; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the processor executes an algorithm stored in the memory to: receive, an image from one of the camera and an archive of images; determine, using a Perception based Image Quality Evaluator (PIQUE) module, a no-reference quality score of the image based on weights of blocks of the image, wherein the weights of the blocks are determined based on features of the image; present, using an interface, at least one of the image, the no-reference quality score, and a spatial quality map of the image, to the user; accept, using the interface, a user feedback towards validation of the no-reference quality score of the image; continually learn, using a learning model, user's perception of quality of the image based on processing of the image, the no-reference quality score determined by the PIQUE module, and the user feedback; adjust the no-reference quality score based on the user's perception of the quality of the image; monitor deviations from the user's perception of the quality of the image and errors introduced during the continuous learning; and retain, using an image retaining module, the image while the no-reference quality score of the image lies between a predefined threshold range, else isolate the image for not to be retained.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the no-reference quality score is determined while the processor is present in an idle mode.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the no-reference quality score is determined by the PIQUE module using the relation, wherein Dsk is distortion assigned to a block of the image, NSA is number of spatially active blocks of the image.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the no-reference quality score ranges from 0 to 1.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the features comprise derivatives of standard deviation of edge segments of divisively normalized images.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the user feedback is accepted while the system enters into an active mode from an idle mode.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the user feedback is a score ranging from 1 to 5.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the learning model continually learns the user's perception of the quality of the image based on training data generated from user's feedbacks towards quality of a plurality of images comprising dissimilar data content.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the spatial quality map illustrates at least one of an amount and type of distortion or noise present in the blocks of the image.
19. A non-transient computer-readable medium comprising instructions for causing a programmable processor to: receive an image from one of a camera and an archive of images; determine a no-reference quality score of the image based on weights of blocks of the image, wherein the weights of the blocks are determined based on features of the image; present to the user, at least one of the image, the no-reference quality score, and a spatial quality map of the image; accept a user feedback towards validation of the no-reference quality score of the image; continually learn user's perception of quality of the image based on processing of the image, the no-reference quality score determined by a Perception based Image Quality Evaluator (PIQUE) module, and the user feedback; adjust the no-reference quality score based on the user's perception of the quality of the image; monitor deviations from the user's perception of the quality of the image and errors introduced during the continuous learning; and retain the image while the no-reference quality score of the image lies between a predefined threshold range, else isolate the image for not to be retained.
</claims>
</document>
