<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADIR, ALLON
GREENBERG, LEV
MARGALIT, ODED
AHARONI, EHUD
ROZENBERG, BORIS
SOFER, ODED
MIROSHNIKOV, ROSA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59998435
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying security breaches from clustering properties
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention may provide the capability to identify security breaches in computer systems from clustering properties of clusters generated based on monitored behavior of users of the computer systems by using techniques that provide improved performance and reduced resource requirements. For example, behavior of users or resources may be monitored and analyzed to generate clusters and train clustering models. Labeling information relating to some user or resource may be received. When users or resources are clustered and when a cluster contains some labeled users/resources then an anomaly score can be determined for a user/resource belonging to the cluster. A user or resource may be detected to be an outlier of at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned, and an alert indicating detection of the outlier may be generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of identifying security breaches in a computer system comprising: monitoring behavior of users or resources of at least one computer system and storing unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors; analyzing the stored unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors to generate clusters and train clustering models, wherein each user or resource is assigned to at least one cluster based on an unlabeled first feature of the behaviors; receiving information relating to a second feature of the behaviors of a user or resource, wherein the second feature is different than the first feature that was used to assign each user or resource to at least one cluster, and wherein the information relating to the second feature is a label of the user or resource; detecting at least one outlier within the clusters generated using the first feature by: generating an anomaly score between a user or resource and at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned, wherein an anomaly score for the user or resource is increased when the second feature for the user or resource is different than the second features for a majority of other users or resources assigned to the at least one cluster; detecting a user or resource to be an outlier of at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned based on the anomaly score of a user or resource; and generating an alert indicating detection of the outlier.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first feature does not include labeling information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein an alert is not generated until an anomaly score of a user or resource reaches a threshold value.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the anomaly score of a user or resource is increased when a cluster assignment of the user or resource is moved to a differently labeled cluster, or when the user or resource is first assigned to a cluster.
5. A system for identifying security breaches in a computer system, the system comprising a processor, memory accessible by the processor, and computer program instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor to perform: monitoring behavior of users or resources of at least one computer system and storing unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors; analyzing the stored unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors to generate clusters and train clustering models, wherein each user or resource is assigned to at least one cluster based on an unlabeled first feature of the behaviors; receiving information relating to a second feature of the behaviors of a user or resource, wherein the second feature is different than the first feature that was used to assign each user or resource to at least one cluster, and wherein the information relating to the second feature is a label of the user or resource; detecting at least one outlier within the clusters generated using the first feature by: generating an anomaly score between a user or resource and at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned, wherein an anomaly score for the user or resource is increased when the second feature for the user or resource is different than the second features for a majority of other users or resources assigned to the at least one cluster; detecting a user or resource to be an outlier of at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned based on the anomaly score of a user or resource; and generating an alert indicating detection of the outlier.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the first feature does not include labeling information.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein an alert is not generated until an anomaly score of a user or resource reaches a threshold value.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the anomaly score of a user or resource is increased when a cluster assignment of the user or resource is moved to a differently labeled cluster, or when the user or resource is first assigned to a cluster.
9. A computer program product for identifying security breaches in a computer system, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer, to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: monitoring behavior of users or resources of at least one computer system and storing unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors; analyzing the stored unlabeled information on the monitored behaviors to generate clusters and train clustering models, wherein each user or resource is assigned to at least one cluster based on an unlabeled first feature of the behaviors; receiving information relating to a second feature of the behaviors of a user or resource, wherein the second feature is different than the first feature that was used to assign each user or resource to at least one cluster, and wherein the information relating to the second feature is a label of the user or resource; detecting at least one outlier within the clusters generated using the first feature by: generating an anomaly score between a user or resource and at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned, wherein an anomaly score for the user or resource is increased when the second feature for the user or resource is different than the second features for a majority of other users or resources assigned to the at least one cluster; detecting a user or resource to be an outlier of at least one cluster to which the user or resource has been assigned based on the anomaly score of a user or resource; and generating an alert indicating detection of the outlier.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the first feature does not include labeling information.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein an alert is not generated until an anomaly score of a user or resource reaches a threshold value.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the anomaly score of a user or resource is increased when a cluster assignment of the user or resource is moved to a differently labeled cluster, or when the user or resource is first assigned to a cluster.
</claims>
</document>
