<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/00,G06F3/0484,G06F9/451,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, SUNHWAN
ARAR, RAPHAEL I.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61970982
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Context aware user interface
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method according to one embodiment includes identifying one or more historical instances of device usage; determining historical contextual data for each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage; creating an event in association with the one or more historical instances of the device usage and the historical contextual data; training a classifier to identify the event by inputting the historical contextual data and an associated event identifier into a machine learning algorithm; identifying, using the trained classifier, a real-time occurrence of the event, utilizing real-time contextual data and the historical contextual data, where the trained classifier analyzes the real-time contextual data to identify the real-time occurrence of the event; and in response to identifying the real-time occurrence of the event, adjusting one or more aspects of a user interface of the device based on the one or more historical instances of the device usage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying one or more historical instances of device usage; determining historical contextual data for each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage, the historical contextual data including an identification of one or more additional devices that communicated with the device during each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage; creating an event in association with the one or more historical instances of the device usage and the historical contextual data; training a classifier to identify the event by inputting the historical contextual data and an associated event identifier into a machine learning algorithm; training an application selector to predict application usage data in response to identification of the event, including inputting the historical contextual data and the associated event identifier into another machine learning algorithm to train the application selector to predict one or more applications to be used by the one or more additional devices that communicated with the device; identifying, using the trained classifier, a real-time occurrence of the event, utilizing real-time contextual data and the historical contextual data, where the trained classifier analyzes the real-time contextual data to identify the real-time occurrence of the event; and in response to identifying the real-time occurrence of the event, determining one or more additional devices that are in communication with the device, and adjusting one or more aspects of a user interface (UI) of the one or more additional devices.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the one or more aspects of the UI of the one or more additional devices includes: changing an order of one or more applications displayed using the UI, changing a size of one or more icons displayed by the UI, changing a placement of icons displayed by the UI, changing a color of one or more icons displayed by the UI, and changing an opacity of one or more icons displayed using the UI.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data include a time each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage occurred and a location where each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage occurred.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data includes an activity being performed by a user during each the one or more historical instances of the device usage.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data includes an identification of external data associated with the one or more historical instances of the device usage.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein creating the event includes associating an event identifier of the event with the one or more historical instances of the device usage and the historical contextual data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the real-time contextual data includes contextual data identified by monitoring one or more aspects of a user's real-time device usage.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the real-time contextual data includes current calendar information and current message information, the historical contextual data includes: an activity being performed by a user during each of the one or more historical instances, and a role of a user performing each of the one or more historical instances.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the one or more aspects of the UI of the device includes changing an order of one or more applications displayed using the UI.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data is stored at a cloud computing environment and is compared to real-time contextual data received at the cloud computing environment.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the real-time contextual data includes current calendar information and current message information.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data includes external data associated with the one or more historical instances of the device usage, including data stored within a calendar application and a messaging application.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the historical contextual data includes: an activity being performed by a user during each of the one or more historical instances, and a role of a user performing each of the one or more historical instances.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more historical instances of the device usage are identified for a predetermined group of users.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more additional devices in communication with the device are detected by identifying all devices currently within a predetermined area associated with the event.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more additional devices in communication with the device are detected by identifying all devices currently on one or more predetermined networks.
17. A computer program product for implementing a context aware user interface (UI), the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: identifying one or more historical instances of device usage, utilizing the processor; determining historical contextual data for each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage, utilizing the processor, the historical contextual data including an identification of one or more additional devices that communicated with the device during each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage; creating an event in association with the one or more historical instances of the device usage and the historical contextual data, utilizing the processor; training a classifier to identify the event by inputting the historical contextual data and an associated event identifier into a machine learning algorithm, utilizing the processor; training, utilizing the processor, an application selector to predict application usage data in response to identification of the event, including inputting the historical contextual data and the associated event identifier into another machine learning algorithm to train the application selector to predict one or more applications to be used by the one or more additional devices that communicated with the device; identifying, using the trained classifier, a real-time occurrence of the event, utilizing the processor and real-time contextual data and the historical contextual data, where the trained classifier analyzes the real-time contextual data to identify the real-time occurrence of the event; and in response to identifying the real-time occurrence of the event, determining, utilizing the processor, one or more additional devices that are in communication with the device, and adjusting, utilizing the processor, one or more aspects of a user interface (UI) of the one or more additional devices.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the one or more historical instances of the device usage are identified for a single user or for a predetermined group of users.
19. A system, comprising: a processor; and logic integrated with the processor, executable by the processor, or integrated with and executable by the processor, the logic being configured to: identify one or more historical instances of device usage; determine historical contextual data for each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage, the historical contextual data including an identification of one or more additional devices that communicated with the device during each of the one or more historical instances of the device usage; create an event in association with the one or more historical instances of the device usage and the historical contextual data; train a classifier to identify the event by inputting the historical contextual data and an associated event identifier into a machine learning algorithm; train an application selector to predict application usage data in response to identification of the event, including inputting the historical contextual data and the associated event identifier into another machine learning algorithm to train the application selector to predict one or more applications to be used by the one or more additional devices that communicated with the device; identify, using the trained classifier, a real-time occurrence of the event, utilizing real-time contextual data and the historical contextual data, where the trained classifier analyzes the real-time contextual data to identify the real-time occurrence of the event; and in response to identifying the real-time occurrence of the event, determine one or more additional devices that are in communication with the device, and adjust one or more aspects of a user interface (UI) of the one or more additional devices.
</claims>
</document>
