<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06Q30/02,H04L12/725,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG, GUANGQIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64315643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Customized communications for network systems
</title>

<abstract>
A network system customizes communications and communication channels for delivery to candidate providers registering with the network system. Candidate providers progress through steps of a network registration process by providing input data at the various steps. The network system provides communications to request the input data and facilitate the candidate providers' progress. The network system can use a machine learning model to predict particular types of communications and communication channels (e.g., online messages, phone calls, physical mail, etc.) that are likely to be well-received by candidate providers. Thus, the network system is able to increase the expected number of candidate providers that successfully register to provide services to other users of the network system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for customizing communication channels, the method comprising: determining one or more characteristics of a candidate provider registering to provide a service of a network system to users of the network system; selecting, by a machine learning model, a communication channel that the candidate provider is likely to use to respond to one or more communications for registration to provide the service, the machine learning model trained at least using information describing a plurality of candidate providers or registered providers of the network system having the one or more characteristics; providing a communication for registration to provide the service via the communication channel for presentation to the candidate provider by a client device; and registering the candidate provider for the service responsive to at least determining that the candidate provider completed at least one action indicated by the communication.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting the at least one action using historical actions performed by candidate providers of the network system to register for the service.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the candidate provider has progressed to a step of a sequence of steps to register for the service of the network system; and selecting the at least one action using an action performed by the candidate provider for another step of the sequence of steps.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the information describing the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers indicates at least a plurality of communication channels used by the network system to provide communications to the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the information describing the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers indicates at least a rate at which one of the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers scrolled through one of the communications.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of communication channels includes one or more of: text message, email, phone, physical mail, or chatbot.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics is associated with a type of service of the network system, demographic information, or geographical information.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the service is transportation service, the method further comprising: selecting the communication from a plurality of communications each requesting information for a different one of: driver license, vehicle insurance, and vehicle inspection.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving a copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection; and determining that the copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection is legible and valid.
10. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine one or more characteristics of a candidate provider registering to provide a service of a network system to users of the network system; select, by a machine learning model, a communication channel that the candidate provider is likely to use to respond to one or more communications for registration to provide the service, the machine learning model trained at least using information describing a plurality of candidate providers or registered providers of the network system having the one or more characteristics; provide a communication for registration to provide the service via the communication channel for presentation to the candidate provider by a client device; and register the candidate provider for the service responsive to at least determining that the candidate provider completed at least one action indicated by the communication.
11. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, having further instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: select the at least one action using historical actions performed by candidate providers of the network system to register for the service.
12. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, having further instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: determine that the candidate provider has progressed to a step of a sequence of steps to register for the service of the network system; and select the at least one action using an action performed by the candidate provider for another step of the sequence of steps.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the information describing the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers indicates at least a plurality of communication channels used by the network system to provide communications to the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the information describing the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers indicates at least a rate at which one of the plurality of candidate providers or registered providers scrolled through one of the communications.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the plurality of communication channels includes one or more of: text message, email, phone, physical mail, or chatbot.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the one or more characteristics is associated with a type of service of the network system, demographic information, or geographical information.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 10, having further instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: select the communication from a plurality of communications each requesting information for a different one of: driver license, vehicle insurance, and vehicle inspection, wherein the service is transportation service.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 17, having further instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive a copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection; and determine that the copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection is legible and valid.
19. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having instructions encoded thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine one or more characteristics of a candidate provider registering to provide a service of a network system to users of the network system; select, by a machine learning model, a communication channel that the candidate provider is likely to use to respond to one or more communications for registration to provide the service, the machine learning model trained at least using information describing a plurality of candidate providers or registered providers of the network system having the one or more characteristics; provide a communication for registration to provide the service via the communication channel for presentation to the candidate provider by a client device; and register the candidate provider for the service responsive to at least determining that the candidate provider completed at least one action indicated by the communication.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the service is transportation service, and wherein the non-transitory computer readable storage medium includes further instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: select the communication from a plurality of communications each requesting information for a different one of: driver license, vehicle insurance, and vehicle inspection; receive a copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection; and determine that the copy or photo of the driver license, the vehicle insurance, or the vehicle inspection is legible and valid.
</claims>
</document>
