<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/538,G06F3/0482,G06K9/00,G06T11/60,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANVARIPOUR, KAVEH
CHARLTON, EBONY JAMES
CHEN, TRAVIS
MOURKOGIANNIS, CELIA NICOLE
TANG, KEVIN DECHAU
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANVARIPOUR, KAVEH
CHARLTON, EBONY JAMES
CHEN, TRAVIS
MOURKOGIANNIS, CELIA NICOLE
TANG, KEVIN DECHAU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69187998
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
DYNAMIC CONTEXTUAL MEDIA FILTER
</title>

<abstract>
A contextual filter system configured to perform operations that include, capturing an image frame at a client device, wherein the image frame includes a depiction of an object, identifying an object category of the object based on the depiction of the object within the image frame, accessing media content associated with the object category within a media repository, generating a presentation of the media content, and causing display of the presentation of the media content within the image frame at the client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: capturing an image frame at a client device, the image frame including a depiction of an object at a position within the image frame; identifying an object category of the object based on the depiction of the object within the image frame; accessing media content associated with the object category within a media repository in response to the identifying the object category; generating a presentation of the media content; and causing display of the presentation of the media content at a location within the image frame at the client device, the location of the presentation of the media content based on the position of the depiction of the object within the image frame.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the media content includes at least a graphical image.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the presentation of the media content includes: retrieving a media template that corresponds with the object category of the object; and populating the media template with the media content associated with the object category.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the media content comprises a plurality of media object types, each media object type among the plurality of media object types including a corresponding display property, the media content includes at least a first media content of a first media object type, and wherein the populating the media template with the media content includes: allocating the first media content to a position within the media template based on the first media object type of the first media content.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: determining a context of the client device in response to the capturing the image frame at the client device; and wherein the media content is associated with the object category and the context within the media repository.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the image frame comprises image metadata, the context includes a location, and the determining the location includes: determining the location of the client device based on the image metadata.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the capturing the image frame at the client device includes: presenting a set of user options at the client device, the set of user options including at least a first user option; receiving a selection of the first user option; and capturing the image frame at the client device in response to the selection of the first user option from among the set of user options.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the accessing the media content associated with the object category within the media repository includes: receiving, at the client device, a media content identifier that identifies the media content; and selecting the media content at the client device based on the media content identifier.
9. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one hardware processor coupled to the memory and comprising instructions that causes the system to perform operations comprising: capturing an image frame at a client device, the image frame including a depiction of an object at a position within the image frame; identifying an object category of the object based on the depiction of the object within the image frame; accessing media content associated with the object category within a media repository in response to the identifying the object category; generating a presentation of the media content; and causing display of the presentation of the media content at a location within the image frame at the client device, the location of the presentation of the media content based on the position of the depiction of the object within the image frame.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the media content includes at least a graphical image.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the generating the presentation of the media content includes: retrieving a media template that corresponds with the object category of the object; and populating the media template with the media content associated with the object category.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the media content comprises a plurality of media object types, each media object type among the plurality of media object types including a corresponding display property, the media content includes at least a first media content of a first media object type, and wherein the populating the media template with the media content includes: allocating the first media content to a position within the media template based on the first media object type of the first media content.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the instructions cause the system to perform operations further comprising: determining a context of the client device in response to the capturing the image frame at the client device; and wherein the media content is associated with the object category and the context within the media repository.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the image frame comprises image metadata, the context includes a location, and the determining the location includes: determining the location of the client device based on the image metadata.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the capturing the image frame at the client device includes: presenting a set of user options at the client device, the set of user options including at least a first user option; receiving a selection of the first user option; and capturing the image frame at the client device in response to the selection of the first user option from among the set of user options.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the accessing the media content associated with the object category within the media repository includes: receiving, at the client device, a media content identifier that identifies the media content; and selecting the media content at the client device based on the media content identifier.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: capturing an image frame at a client device, the image frame including a depiction of an object at a position within the image frame; identifying an object category of the object based on the depiction of the object within the image frame; accessing media content associated with the object category within a media repository in response to the identifying the object category; generating a presentation of the media content; and causing display of the presentation of the media content at a location within the image frame at the client device, the location of the presentation of the media content based on the position of the depiction of the object within the image frame.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the media content includes at least a graphical image.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the generating the presentation of the media content includes: retrieving a media template that corresponds with the object category of the object; and populating the media template with the media content associated with the object category.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the media content comprises a plurality of media object types, each media object type among the plurality of media object types including a corresponding display property, the media content includes at least a first media content of a first media object type, and wherein the populating the media template with the media content includes: allocating the first media content to a position within the media template based on the first media object type of the first media content.
</claims>
</document>
