<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61M5/00,A61M5/14,A61M5/142,A61M5/172,G06Q10/10,G09B19/00,G09B5/00,G09B5/12,G16H40/63,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MEDTRONIC MINIMED
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGRAWAL, PRATIK
NEEMUCHWALA, HUZEFA F.
MCMAHON, CHANTAL M.
JIANG, BOYI
RUSHI, AMIT J.
ZHONG, YUXIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58157162
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data analytics and generation of recommendations for controlling glycemic outcomes associated with tracked events
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented system and related method of reporting glucose information for a user of a diabetes management device are presented here. An embodiment of the method obtains input data for the user of the diabetes management device, and identifies a tracked glycemic response event. One or more recommended glycemic control parameters are calculated based on an analysis of the obtained input data. The glycemic control parameters are calculated to extend a time period during which the user remains within a target glucose range following the tracked glycemic response event. The method continues by generating an output message that includes at least some of the recommended glycemic control parameters, and delivering the generated output message to a user device operated by the user of the diabetes management device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of reporting glucose information for a user of a diabetes management device, the method comprising: obtaining, at a cloud-based computer-implemented server system comprising a processor device configured to execute processor-readable instructions, input data for the user of the diabetes management device; identifying a predicted glycemic response event, the identifying performed by the processor device of the server system; calculating, with the processor device of the server system, one or more recommended glycemic control parameters based on an analysis of the obtained input data, and further based on a comparison of the obtained input data against historical combinations of glycemic events and corresponding outcomes maintained for the user, wherein the one or more glycemic control parameters are calculated to maximize the amount of time the user remains within a target glucose range during a predetermined time period following an occurrence of the predicted glycemic response event; generating, with the processor device of the server system, an output message that includes at least some of the recommended glycemic control parameters; delivering the generated output message from the server system to an insulin infusion device operated by the user, wherein the delivering occurs at a time prior to an actual occurrence of the predicted glycemic response event; and adjusting administration of insulin by the insulin infusion device, wherein the adjusting is performed by the insulin infusion device in accordance with the recommended glycemic control parameters included in the output message delivered to the insulin infusion device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input data comprises: a first amount of data provided by the diabetes management device; and a second amount of data provided by a source other than the diabetes management device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the input data comprises data provided by a mobile device operated by the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the input data comprises at least some of: carbohydrate amount; bolus information; insulin to carbohydrate ratio; insulin sensitivity factor; active insulin amount; time of day; basal rate; temporary basal use; consecutive boluses; insulin suspension; reservoir rewind time; reservoir priming time; pump alarms and associated alarm times; sensor alerts and associated alert times; blood glucose readings and associated measurement times; user demographic information; meal times and corresponding meal content; exercise times and corresponding exercise content or type; medication type, dosage, and time; sleep time and quality; stress time; electronic medical records; and medical lab test data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommended glycemic control parameters are calculated based on historical input data collected for the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the recommended glycemic control parameters include recommendations related to ingestion of meals, timing of meals, insulin bolus size, timing of insulin boluses, food portion size, meal content, sleep duration, sleep timing, activity type, activity duration, or activity timing.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated output message comprises a text-based message, graphics, video content, or audio content.
8. A computer-implemented glucose reporting system comprising: at least one processor device; and a non-transitory processor-readable medium operatively associated with the at least one processor device, the processor-readable medium comprising executable instructions configurable to cause the at least one processor device to perform a method comprising: obtaining input data for a user of a diabetes management device; identifying a predicted glycemic response event; calculating one or more recommended glycemic control parameters based on an analysis of the obtained input data, and further based on a comparison of the obtained input data against historical combinations of glycemic events and corresponding outcomes maintained for the user, wherein the one or more glycemic control parameters are calculated to maximize the amount of time the user remains within a target glucose range during a predetermined time period following an occurrence of the predicted glycemic response event; generating an output message that includes at least some of the recommended glycemic control parameters; delivering the generated output message to an insulin infusion device operated by the user, wherein the delivering occurs at a time prior to an actual occurrence of the predicted glycemic response event; and adjusting administration of insulin by the insulin infusion device, wherein the adjusting is performed by the insulin infusion device in accordance with the recommended glycemic control parameters included in the output message delivered to the insulin infusion device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the input data comprises: a first amount of data provided by the diabetes management device; and a second amount of data provided by a source other than the diabetes management device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the input data comprises data provided by a mobile device operated by the user of the diabetes management device.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the input data comprises at least some of: carbohydrate amount; bolus information; insulin to carbohydrate ratio; insulin sensitivity factor; active insulin amount; time of day; basal rate; temporary basal use; consecutive boluses; insulin suspension; reservoir rewind time; reservoir priming time; pump alarms and associated alarm times; sensor alerts and associated alert times; blood glucose readings and associated measurement times; user demographic information; meal times and corresponding meal content; exercise times and corresponding exercise content or type; medication type, dosage, and time; sleep time and quality; stress time; electronic medical records; and medical lab test data.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the recommended glycemic control parameters are calculated based on historical input data collected for the user.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the recommended glycemic control parameters include recommendations related to ingestion of meals, timing of meals, insulin bolus size, timing of insulin boluses, food portion size, meal content, sleep duration, sleep timing, activity type, activity duration, or activity timing.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the generated output message comprises a text-based message, graphics, video content, or audio content.
</claims>
</document>
