<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/30,G06F11/32,G06F11/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARVEY, DUSTIN
KAVAL, MARIA
SALUNKE, SAMPANNA SHAHAJI
SHAFT, URI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61071987
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unsupervised method for baselining and anomaly detection in time-series data for enterprise systems
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for performing unsupervised baselining and anomaly detection using time-series data are described. In one or more embodiments, a baselining and anomaly detection system receives a set of time-series data. Based on the set of time-series, the system generates a first interval that represents a first distribution of sample values associated with the first seasonal pattern and a second interval that represents a second distribution of sample values associated with the second seasonal pattern. The system then monitors a time-series signals using the first interval during a first time period and the second interval during a second time period. In response to detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern or the second seasonal pattern, the system generates an alert.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a set of time-series data that includes a sequence of values captured by one or more computing devices over time; detecting two or more seasonal patterns within the set of time-series data, including a first seasonal pattern and a second seasonal pattern; generating, based on the set of time-series data, a first interval for the first seasonal pattern and a second interval for the second seasonal pattern; wherein the first interval represents a first distribution of sample values associated with the first seasonal pattern; wherein the second interval represents a second distribution of sample values associated with the second seasonal pattern; monitoring a first set of one or more data points occurring at a first time period within a time-series signal for anomalies in the first seasonal pattern based, at least in part, on whether the first set of one or more data points falls outside of the first interval; detecting, after the first time period, a transition between a first season when the first seasonal pattern is expected and a second season when the second seasonal pattern is expected; responsive to detecting the transition, transitioning monitoring of the time-series signal from using the first interval to using the second interval such that a second set of one or more data points occurring at a second time period within the time-series signal are monitored for anomalies in the second seasonal pattern based, at least in part, on whether the second set of one or more data points falls outside of the second interval; and in response to detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern or the second seasonal pattern, generating an alert.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second interval represents a greater amount of uncertainty than the first interval.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first interval defines a first upper bound and a first lower bound within which a prescribed portion of data points associated with the first seasonal pattern fall; wherein the second interval defines a second upper bound and a second lower bound within which a prescribed portion of data points associated with the second interval fall.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern responsive to determining that at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points falls outside the first interval.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising, detecting a particular deviation of at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points from the first interval; responsive to detecting that the at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points falls outside the first interval, determining whether a cumulative sum of deviations, including the particular deviation, exceeds a threshold; and responsive to determining that the cumulative sum exceeds a threshold, detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the first interval and the second interval as more training data is received.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising transitioning the first interval from representing the first seasonal pattern to representing a third seasonal pattern; wherein the third seasonal pattern recurs at a different seasonal period than the first seasonal pattern.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein updating the first interval and the second interval comprises updating a non-seasonal model to a seasonal model representing the first seasonal pattern and the second seasonal pattern.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first seasonal pattern is one of a sparse high, a dense high, a sparse low, or a dense low; wherein the second seasonal pattern is one of a sparse high, a dense high, a sparse low, or a dense low; wherein the first seasonal pattern is different than the second seasonal pattern.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising pausing training of a baseline model used to monitor the time-series signal based, at least in part, on the amount of training data from the set of time-series data that is available to train the baseline model.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions, which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause performance of operations comprising: receiving a set of time-series data that includes a sequence of values captured by one or more computing devices over time; detecting two or more seasonal patterns within the set of time-series data, including a first seasonal pattern and a second seasonal pattern; generating, based on the set of time-series data, a first interval for the first seasonal pattern and a second interval for the second seasonal pattern; wherein the first interval represents a first distribution of sample values associated with the first seasonal pattern; wherein the second interval represents a second distribution of sample values associated with the second seasonal pattern; monitoring a first set of one or more data points occurring at a first time period within a time-series signal for anomalies in the first seasonal pattern based, at least in part, on whether the first set of one or more data points falls outside of the first interval; detecting, after the first time period, a transition between a first season when the first seasonal pattern is expected and a second season when the second seasonal pattern is expected; responsive to detecting the transition, transitioning monitoring of the time-series signal from using the first interval to using the second interval such that a second set of one or more data points occurring at a second time period within the time-series signal are monitored for anomalies in the second seasonal pattern based, at least in part, on whether the second set of one or more data points falls outside of the second interval; and in response to detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern or the second seasonal pattern, generating an alert.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, wherein the second interval represents a greater amount of uncertainty than the first interval.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, wherein the first interval defines a first upper bound and a first lower bound within which a prescribed portion of data points associated with the first seasonal pattern fall; wherein the second interval defines a second upper bound and a second lower bound within which a prescribed portion of data points associated with the second interval fall.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, the instructions further causing operations comprising detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern responsive to determining that at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points falls outside the first interval.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, the instructions further causing operations comprising, detecting a particular deviation of at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points from the first interval; responsive to detecting that the at least one data point in the first set of one or more data points falls outside the first interval, determining whether a cumulative sum of deviations, including the particular deviation, exceeds a threshold; and responsive to determining that the cumulative sum exceeds a threshold, detecting an anomaly in the first seasonal pattern.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, the instructions further causing operations comprising updating the first interval and the second interval as more training data is received.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, the instructions further causing operations comprising transitioning the first interval from representing the first seasonal pattern to representing a third seasonal pattern; wherein the third seasonal pattern recurs at a different seasonal period than the first seasonal pattern.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein updating the first interval and the second interval comprises updating a non-seasonal model to a seasonal model representing the first seasonal pattern and the second seasonal pattern.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, wherein the first seasonal pattern is one of a sparse high, a dense high, a sparse low, or a dense low; wherein the second seasonal pattern is one of a sparse high, a dense high, a sparse low, or a dense low; wherein the first seasonal pattern is different than the second seasonal pattern.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 11, the instructions further causing operations comprising pausing training of a baseline model used to monitor the time-series signal based, at least in part, on the amount of training data from the set of time-series data that is available to train the baseline model.
</claims>
</document>
