<document>

<filing_date>
2013-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B23/02,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB RESEARCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHRIEBER, RANDALL R.
MAHATE, SHAKEEL M.
HOU, CHIHHUNG
SMILEY, KAREN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51205568
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Criticality profile for industrial asset
</title>

<abstract>
Among other things, one or more techniques and/or systems are provided for developing a criticality profile of an industrial asset. The criticality profile describes the importance of the industrial asset to a system in terms of one or more criticality metrics and/or one or more confidence profiles. Such metrics may include an operational metric indicative of the operation impact of the industrial asset on a system if the industrial asset remains unchanged or enters a degraded or improved state, a restoration metric indicative of a complexity of restoring the industrial asset to an operational state from the unchanged or degraded state and/or complexity of improving the industrial asset to an improved state, and/or an interdependency metric indicative of a relationship between the industrial asset and one or more other industrial assets and/or between the industrial asset and one or more structures in an environment associated with the industrial asset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining an operational metric indicative of an operational impact of a first industrial asset on a system comprising the first industrial asset; determining a restoration metric indicative of a change in a restoration impact, corresponding to a reduction in future restoration complexity corresponding to a budget, on the system associated with a completed modification of the first industrial asset to perform at an improved state different than a present state; developing a first criticality profile for the first industrial asset based upon the operational metric and the restoration metric; determining, using a processing unit, an allocation of maintenance resources for a plurality of industrial assets, including the first industrial asset, based upon the first criticality profile; and generating a visualization based upon the first criticality profile for the first industrial asset, the visualization comprising a diagram comprising a representation of the first industrial asset, a representation of a first structure associated with the first industrial asset and a representation of a second structure associated with the first industrial asset, a first line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the first structure and graphically indicative of a first level of reliance that the first structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a first pattern or a first weight applied to the first line, and a second line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the second structure and graphically indicative of a second level of reliance that the second structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a second pattern or a second weight applied to the second line, the first pattern different than the second pattern, the first weight different than the second weight, the first level of reliance different than the second level of reliance.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining an interdependency metric indicative of an interdependency impact between the first industrial asset and a second industrial asset, wherein the developing a first criticality profile comprises: developing the first criticality profile based upon the interdependency metric.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the developing a first criticality profile comprises: applying a first transformation to the operational metric and a second transformation to the restoration metric, the first transformation different than the second transformation, at least one of the first transformation or the second transformation comprising a conversion from a first quantification to a second quantification.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating a first confidence profile of the operational metric; and generating a second confidence profile of the restoration metric, wherein the developing a first criticality profile comprises: applying a first transformation to the operational metric and a second transformation to the restoration metric, the first transformation a function of the first confidence profile and the second transformation a function of the second confidence profile, at least one of the first transformation or the second transformation comprising a conversion from a first quantification to a second quantification.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the operational metric is indicative of the operational impact if the first industrial asset at least one of: switches between an operational state and a degraded state; switches between the operational state and the improved state; or remains in the operational state.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the degraded state is a failed state.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the restoration impact corresponds to restoring the first industrial asset to an operational state from a degraded state.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising: determining an interdependency metric indicative of an interdependency impact between the first industrial asset and an environment associated with the first industrial asset, wherein the developing a first criticality profile comprises: developing the first criticality profile based upon the interdependency metric.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating a visualization comprises: generating the visualization for a future point in time.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the representation of the first industrial asset is different than the representation of the first structure and the representation of the second structure.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the representation of the first structure is different than the representation of the second structure.
12. The method of claim 1, the reduction in future restoration complexity corresponding to a change in timing associated with the first industrial asset.
13. The method of claim 1, the first pattern applied to the first line and the second pattern applied to the second line.
14. The method of claim 1, the first weight applied to the first line and the second weight applied to the second line.
15. A system, comprising: one or more processing units; and memory comprising instructions that when executed by at least one of the processing units perform operations, comprising: determining an operational metric indicative of an operational impact of a first industrial asset on a system comprising the first industrial asset; determining a restoration metric indicative of a change in a restoration impact, corresponding to a reduction in future restoration complexity corresponding to a budget, on the system associated with a completed modification of the first industrial asset to perform at an improved state different than a present state; developing a first criticality profile for the first industrial asset based upon the operational metric and the restoration metric; determining an allocation of maintenance resources for a plurality of industrial assets, including the first industrial asset, based upon the first criticality profile; and generating a visualization based upon the first criticality profile for the first industrial asset, the visualization comprising a diagram comprising a representation of the first industrial asset, a representation of a first structure associated with the first industrial asset and a representation of a second structure associated with the first industrial asset; a first line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the first structure and graphically indicative of a first level of reliance that the first structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a first pattern or a first weight applied to the first line, and a second line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the second structure and graphically indicative of a second level of reliance that the second structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a second pattern or a second weight applied to the second line, the first pattern different than the second pattern, the first weight different than the second weight, the first level of reliance different than the second level of reliance.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operational metric is indicative of the operational impact if the first industrial asset at least one of: switches between an operational state and a degraded state; switches between the operational state and the improved state; or remains in the operational state.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the restoration impact corresponds to restoring the first industrial asset to an operational state from a degraded state.
18. The system of claim 15, the operations comprising: determining an interdependency metric indicative of an interdependency impact between the first industrial asset and a second industrial asset, wherein the developing a first criticality profile comprises: developing the first criticality profile based upon the interdependency metric.
19. The system of claim 15, the operations comprising: responsive to the first criticality profile indicating that the first industrial asset is of greater importance to the system than a second industrial asset, prioritizing maintenance of the first industrial asset over maintenance of the second industrial asset.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising processor-executable instructions that when executed perform a method comprising: determining an operational metric indicative of an operational impact of a first industrial asset on a system comprising the first industrial asset; determining a restoration metric indicative of a restoration impact of the first industrial asset on the system; developing a first criticality profile for the first industrial asset based upon the operational metric and the restoration metric; determining, using a processing unit, an allocation of maintenance resources for a plurality of industrial assets, including the first industrial asset, based upon the first criticality profile; and generating a visualization based upon the first criticality profile for the first industrial asset, the visualization comprising a diagram comprising a representation of the first industrial asset, a representation of a first structure associated with the first industrial asset and a representation of a second structure associated with the first industrial asset, a first line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the first structure and graphically indicative of a first level of reliance that the first structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a first pattern or a first weight applied to the first line, and a second line in the diagram connecting the representation of the first industrial asset to the representation of the second structure and graphically indicative of a second level of reliance that the second structure has on the first industrial asset based upon at least one of a second pattern or a second weight applied to the second line, the first pattern different than the second pattern, the first weight different than the second weight, the first level of reliance different than the second level of reliance.
</claims>
</document>
