<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47B31/06,B60B19/12,B64D11/00,B65F1/14,G01C21/36,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VANDEWALL, CYNTHIA ANNE
TANG, MING
Qyang Zhan, Zea Zhou
Lane, Blake
Young, Bradley
Navarro-Sainz, Adriana G.
Wang, Tiaoling
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64650209
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for in-flight crew assistance
</title>

<abstract>
A robot system is provided that is configured for use on-board a vehicle during a trip of the vehicle. The vehicle includes a cabin. The robot system includes a body, a transportation system, a communication link, an interaction system, and a control system. The transportation system is coupled to the body and configured to move the body through at least a portion of the cabin. The communication link is configured to receive trip information. The interaction system is configured to interact with at least one of a passenger or a crew member disposed within the cabin during trip. The control system is configured to operate the robot system to perform a crew assistance task during the use of the vehicle responsive to at least one of the trip information or information received from the at least one of the passenger or crew member.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A robot system configured for use on-board a vehicle during a trip of the vehicle, the vehicle including a cabin having a usage area and a storage area, the robot system including: a body; a transportation system coupled to the body and configured to move the body through at least a portion of the cabin during at least a portion of the trip, the transportation system comprising at least one of a drive or guides; a communication link configured to autonomously receive trip information from off-board the vehicle during the trip, the trip information corresponding to one or more of trip status, trip performance, passenger information, crew information, or related trip information; an interaction system configured to interact with at least one of a passenger or a crew member disposed within the cabin during trip, the interaction system comprising at least one of a microphone, touch screen, speaker, or projector; and a control system comprising a memory that stores instructions for directing the control system to autonomously operate the robot system to perform a crew assistance task during the use of the vehicle responsive to the trip information.
2. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the transportation system comprises a gyroscopic ball configured for rolling the robot system along a floor of the cabin.
3. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the transportation system is configured to cooperate with a track network disposed in the cabin.
4. The robot system of claim 3, wherein the track network is disposed on a ceiling of the cabin, and the body is configured to travel along the ceiling.
5. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the control system is configured to secure the robot system in place during at least a portion of the trip.
6. The robot system of claim 5, wherein the control system is configured to autonomously secure the robot system in place responsive to the trip information.
7. The robot system of claim 5, further comprising a magnet, wherein the control system is configured to secure the robot system in place using the magnet in cooperation with a magnetic portion of a floor of the cabin in the usage area.
8. The robot system of claim 5, wherein the control system is configured to autonomously secure the robot system in place in the storage area during at least one of take-off or landing.
9. The robot system of claim 1, further comprising a passenger sensor, wherein the control system is configured to control the robot system responsive to an input received via the passenger sensor.
10. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the robot system is configured to autonomously display a trip announcement corresponding to the trip information responsive to receiving the trip information.
11. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the interaction system is configured to provide a holographic projection display.
12. The robot system of claim 1, wherein the body is configured to be compressible between an expanded state and a compressed state.
13. A robot system configured for use on-board a vehicle during a trip, the vehicle including a cabin, the robot system including: a body; a transportation system coupled to the body and configured to move the body through at least a portion of the cabin, the transportation system comprising at least one of a drive or guides; an interaction system configured to interact with at least one of a passenger or a crew member disposed within the cabin during the trip, the interaction system comprising at least one of a microphone, touch screen, speaker, or projector; and a control system comprising a memory that stores instructions for directing the control system to operate the robot system to autonomously perform a medical crew assistance task during the trip responsive to remote information acquired from a source disposed remote from the vehicle during the trip, wherein the robot system implements a course of action provided by the source disposed remote from the vehicle.
14. The robot system of claim 13, wherein the robot system is configured to provide guidance corresponding to the medical crew assistance task with the interaction system.
15. The robot system of claim 13, further comprising a communication link configured to operably couple the robot system with a ground communication system, wherein the robot system is configured to collect medical information of the passenger and to provide the medical information to off-board medical personnel using the communication link.
16. The robot system of claim 15, further comprising a passenger sensor configured to acquire medical information of a passenger during the trip.
17. The robot system of claim 15, wherein the robot system is configured to receive guidance from the off-board medical personnel via the communication link, and to perform the medical crew assistance task responsive to receiving the guidance.
18. A robot system configured for use on-board a vehicle during a trip, the vehicle including a cabin having a usage area and a storage area, the robot system including: a body having a receptacle therein for containing trash; a transportation system coupled to the body and configured to move the body through at least a portion of the cabin, the transportation system comprising at least one of a drive or guides; a communication link configured to receive trip information from off-board the vehicle during the trip, the trip information corresponding to one or more of trip status, trip performance, passenger information, crew information, or related trip information; an interaction system configured to interact with at least one of a passenger or a crew member disposed within the cabin during the trip, the interaction system comprising at least one of a microphone, touch screen, speaker, or projector; and a control system comprising a memory that stores instructions for directing the control system to autonomously operate the robot system to perform a trash removal task during the trip responsive to the trip information.
19. The robot system of claim 18 further comprising a compactor disposed within the body and configured to compress trash disposed in the receptacle.
20. The robot system of claim 18, wherein the control system is configured to operate the robot to perform the trash removal task responsive to the trip status.
</claims>
</document>
