<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/06,G06K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAUFFER, SCOTT C.
GUZMAN, RICHARD W.
GILBERT, MATTHEW B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663981
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Decoding parts with encoded geometry for retrieving passively represented information
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and computer-readable medium for decoding an encoded geometry. Decoding the encoded geometry includes: scanning an encoded geometry, the scanning comprising scanning a plurality of multi-dimensional symbols of the encoded geometry; identifying each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols; decoding each identifier multi-dimensional symbol to provide encoded geometry information; accessing an encoded geometry repository; and, retrieving data associated with the encoded geometry information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implementable method for decoding an encoded geometry, comprising: scanning the encoded geometry, the scanning comprising scanning a plurality of multi-dimensional symbols of the encoded geometry, each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols representing a plurality of constrained values, each of the plurality of constrained values including a two-dimensional value, the two-dimensional value being represented by a polygon, the two-dimensional value comprising a representation of vertices of the polygon; identifying each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols; decoding each identified multi-dimensional symbol to provide encoded geometry information; accessing an encoded geometry repository using the encoded geometry information, the encoded geometry repository comprising an entry associating the encoded geometry with a unique identifier of an information handling system; and, retrieving the unique identifier of the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry information.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the encoded geometry uniquely identifies a part.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the scanning comprises performing a depth scanning operation; and, point cloud data representing each of the plurality of multi-dimensional system is generated by the depth scanning operation.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols provide a unique encoded geometry.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: each multi-dimensional symbol is a three-dimensional symbol and the encoded geometry is a three-dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three-dimensional symbols.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry; and, presenting the information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry to a user via an encoded geometry screen presentation.
7. A system comprising: a processor; a data bus coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the processor and configured for: scanning an encoded geometry, the scanning comprising scanning a plurality of multi-dimensional symbols of the encoded geometry, each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols representing a plurality of constrained values, each of the plurality of constrained values including a two-dimensional value, the two-dimensional value being represented by a polygon, the two-dimensional value comprising a representation of vertices of the polygon; identifying each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols; decoding each identifier multi-dimensional symbol to provide encoded geometry information; accessing an encoded geometry repository using the encoded geometry information, the encoded geometry repository comprising an entry associating the encoded geometry with a unique identifier of an information handling system; and, retrieving the unique identifier of the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry information.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the encoded geometry uniquely identifies a part.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein: the scanning comprises performing a depth scanning operation; and, point cloud data representing each of the plurality of multi-dimensional system is generated by the depth scanning operation.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein: the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols provide a unique encoded geometry.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein: each multi-dimensional symbol is a three-dimensional symbol and the encoded geometry is a three-dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three-dimensional symbols.
12. The system of claim 7, the instructions executable by the processor are further configured for: obtaining information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry; and, presenting the information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry to a user via an encoded geometry screen presentation.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: scanning an encoded geometry, the scanning comprising scanning a plurality of multi-dimensional symbols of the encoded geometry, each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols representing a plurality of constrained values, each of the plurality of constrained values including a two-dimensional value, the two-dimensional value being represented by a polygon, the two-dimensional value comprising a representation of vertices of the polygon; identifying each of the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols; decoding each identifier multi-dimensional symbol to provide encoded geometry information; accessing an encoded geometry repository using the encoded geometry information, the encoded geometry repository comprising an entry associating the encoded geometry with a unique identifier of an information handling system; and, retrieving the unique identifier of the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry information.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the encoded geometry uniquely identifies a part.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the scanning comprises performing a depth scanning operation; and, point cloud data representing each of the plurality of multi-dimensional system is generated by the depth scanning operation.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the plurality of multi-dimensional symbols provide a unique encoded geometry.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: each multi-dimensional symbol is a three-dimensional symbol and the encoded geometry is a three-dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three-dimensional symbols.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the computer executable instructions are further configured for: obtaining information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry; and, presenting the information regarding the information handling system associated with the encoded geometry to a user via an encoded geometry screen presentation.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are deployable to a client system from a server system at a remote location.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are provided by a service provider to a user on an on-demand basis.
</claims>
</document>
