<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-07-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04M11/06,H04M3/22,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASSIA SPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHAGAVATULA, RAMYA
KERPEZ, KENNETH, J.
RHEE, WONJONG
SONG, GUOCONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
46642615
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for performance estimation of a communication link
</title>

<abstract>
Described is a method for performance estimation of a communication device. The method comprises: executing active probing to determine active probing data; reading operational data which includes data related to channel and its noise condition, latency and counter values related to user data traffic between the communication device and another communication device, wherein the operational data is relevant to the current settings of the communication device; and training a performance estimation algorithm for the communication device according to the active probing data and the operational data.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for performance estimation of a communication device, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing platform, active probing data including latency information from the communication device after executing active probing, and operational data which relates to user data traffic transmitted from the communication device to another communication device; and training, by the computing platform, a performance estimation processor for the communication device according to the operational data based on active probing data, wherein after training the performance estimation processor, the computing platform continues receiving operational data, and uses operational data only to estimate performance with the performance estimation processor and ceases execution of active probing, and wherein active probing data results are considered as an accurate estimation of performance of a communication link between the communication device and the another communication device, and the active probing data results are used for training the performance estimation processor for when it uses operational data only.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein when network performance falls below a threshold, the communication device reinitiates execution of active probing and re-trains the performance estimation processor based on updated operational data and updated active probing data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein training the performance estimation processor comprises: updating the performance estimation processor as a function of one or more criteria which includes at least one of: time of day, time of week, type of communication device, manufacturer and model of equipment, equipment characteristics, firmware, backbone limitations, user's network usage pattern, RF characteristics including at least one of: signal power, path loss, noise level, frequency bands or mode of operation, environment statistics, or data on operation of communication devices adjacent to the communication device, wherein the data includes at least one of interference channels and levels.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein executing active probing comprises: transmitting the active probing data from the communication device to the another communication device; and waiting for a predetermined time before reading the operational data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein executing active probing comprises: transmitting the active probing data from the communication device to the another communication device; and receiving a report indicating amount of data or data received by the another communication device.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprises: computing at least one of throughput of the communication device, connectivity, latency, jitter, or error rate using the active probing data for training the performance estimation processor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein executing active probing is performed fewer times than executing passive probing.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprises: receiving the active probing data and reading operational data, the operational data related to user data traffic from the communication device before, during and/or after executing active probing.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a computing platform is one of a plurality of communication devices.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein training the performance estimation processor comprises applying a machine learning algorithm.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the communication device comprises at least one of: an access point (AP); a base station; a wireless local area network (LAN) device; a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM); a gateway; a performance enhancement device; a Digital Subscriber Line (DSL) Customer Premises Equipment (CPE) modem; an in-home powerline device; a Home Phoneline Network Alliance (HPNA) based device; an in-home coax distribution device; a G.hn (Global Home Networking Standard) compatible device; an in-home metering communication device; an in-home appliance communicatively interfaced with the LAN; a wireless femtocell base station; a wireless WiFi compatible base station; a wireless mobile device repeater; a wireless mobile device base station; nodes within an ad-hoc/mesh network; a set-top box (STB)/set-top unit (STU) customer electronics device; an Internet Protocol (IP) enabled television; an IP enabled media player; an IP enabled gaming console; an Ethernet gateway; a computing device connected to the LAN; an Ethernet connected computer peripheral device; an Ethernet connected router; an Ethernet connected wireless bridge; an Ethernet connected network bridge; or an Ethernet connected network switch.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing platform periodically initiates active probing to check if estimated performance of the performance estimation processor based on operational data provides comparable accuracy compared to estimated performance of the performance estimation processor based on the active probing data.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein active-probing is invoked infrequently by the computing platform depending on a need for accurate performance estimation and a need for training data for updating an operational-data-only estimator.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein a performance estimation processor output comprises a measure expressed in terms of latency.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein read operational data relates to information associated with a configuration of Medium Access Control (MAC) or Physical Layer (PHY) of a Wi-Fi system.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein active probing comprises sending low-rate test packets.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein active probing comprises sending one or more test streams.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising estimating throughput based on packet error counts.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium having computer program code stored thereon, the computer program code, when executed by one or more processors implemented on a computing platform, causes the computing platform to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the computing platform, active probing data including latency information from a communication device after executing active probing, and operational data which relates to user data traffic transmitted from a communication device to another communication device; and training, by the computing platform, a performance estimation processor for the communication device according to the operational data based on active probing data, wherein after training the performance estimation processor, the computing platform continues receiving operational data, and uses operational data only to estimate performance with the performance estimation processor and ceases execution of active probing, and wherein active probing data results are considered as an accurate estimation of performance of a communication link between the communication device and the another communication device, and the active probing data results are used for training the performance estimation processor for when it uses operational data only.
20. A system comprising: a computer platform operable to: receive active probing data including latency information from a communication device after executing active probing, and operational data which relates to user data traffic transmitted from a communication device to another communication device; and train a performance estimation processor for the communication device according to the operational data based on active probing data, wherein after training the performance estimation processor, the computing platform continues receiving operational data, and uses operational data only to estimate performance with the performance estimation processor and ceases execution of active probing, wherein active probing data results are considered as an accurate estimation of performance of a communication link between the communication device and the another communication device, and the active probing data results are used for training the performance estimation processor for when it uses operational data only.
</claims>
</document>
