<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/26,G06F16/28,G06F17/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRA, AL
WANG, CHENG FANG
MA, RENFU
PAN, TIAN MING
TIAN, PENG FEI
TONY, CHU YUN CLOUD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69008171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying relationships among a group of indicators
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for identifying relationships among a group of indicators are provided. Aspects include obtaining the group of indicators, including a number of indicators relating to an operation of a computing system. Aspects also include creating pairs of indicators, wherein the pairs of indicators includes all possible combination of the group of indicators. Aspects further include, for each pair of indicators, calculating a linear correlation score, calculating a fitting function score, determining a final correlation score based at least in part on one of the linear correlation score and the fitting function score and storing the final correlation score in a relationship database. Aspects also include creating a graphical display based on the relationship database, wherein the graphical display is configured to convey a strength relationships among the group of indicators.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying relationships among a group of indicators, comprising: a memory having computer readable instructions; and a processor for executing the computer readable instructions, the computer readable instructions including instructions for: obtaining the group of indicators, including a number of indicators relating to an operation of a computing system; creating pairs of indicators, wherein the pairs of indicators includes all possible combination of the group of indicators; for each pair of indicators: calculating a linear correlation score; calculating a fitting function score; determining a final correlation score based at least in part on one of the linear correlation score and the fitting function score; and storing the final correlation score in a relationship database; creating a graphical display based on the relationship database, wherein the graphical display is configured to convey a strength relationships among the group of indicators, wherein the graphical display is a correlation map that includes a node for each indicator and a connector between each related pair of indicators, wherein a pair of indicators are determined to be related if there final correlation score is non-zero.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the group of indicators include a discretized time indicator.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable instructions including instructions for standardizing each of the group of indicators prior to creating the pairs of indicators.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be zero based on determining that an absolute value of the linear correlation score is less than a threshold number and that one minus the fitting function score is less than the threshold number.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be a greater of the absolute value of the linear correlation score and one minus the fitting function score.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the graphical display is a ranking map for a selected indicator from the group of indicators that includes nodes for each of the group of indicators that have final correlation scores with the selected indicator that exceeds a threshold value.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein a thickness of a connector between the nodes of the ranking map is positively correlated with the final correlation score associated with the pair of indicators associated with the nodes that are connected by the connector.
8. A method for identifying relationships among a group of indicators, the method comprising: obtaining the group of indicators, including a number of indicators relating to an operation of a computing system; creating pairs of indicators, wherein the pairs of indicators includes all possible combination of the group of indicators; for each pair of indicators: calculating a linear correlation score; calculating a fitting function score; determining a final correlation score based at least in part on one of the linear correlation score and the fitting function score; and storing the final correlation score in a relationship database; creating a graphical display based on the relationship database, wherein the graphical display is configured to convey a strength relationships among the group of indicators, wherein the graphical display is a correlation map that includes a node for each indicator and a connector between each related pair of indicators, wherein a pair of indicators are determined to be related if there final correlation score is non-zero.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the group of indicators include a discretized time indicator.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising standardizing each of the group of indicators prior to creating the pairs of indicators.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be zero based on determining that an absolute value of the linear correlation score is less than a threshold number and that one minus the fitting function score is less than the threshold number.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be a greater of the absolute value of the linear correlation score and one minus the fitting function score.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the graphical display is a ranking map for a selected indicator from the group of indicators that includes nodes for each of the group of indicators that have final correlation scores with the selected indicator that exceeds a threshold value.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein a thickness of a connector between the nodes of the ranking map is positively correlated with the final correlation score associated with the pair of indicators associated with the nodes that are connected by the connector.
15. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith the program instructions executable by a computer processor to cause the computer processor to perform a method, comprising: obtaining a group of indicators, including a number of indicators relating to an operation of a computing system; creating pairs of indicators, wherein the pairs of indicators includes all possible combination of the group of indicators; for each pair of indicators: calculating a linear correlation score; calculating a fitting function score; determining a final correlation score based at least in part on one of the linear correlation score and the fitting function score; and storing the final correlation score in a relationship database; creating a graphical display based on the relationship database, wherein the graphical display is configured to convey a strength relationships among the group of indicators, wherein the graphical display is a correlation map that includes a node for each indicator and a connector between each related pair of indicators, wherein a pair of indicators are determined to be related if there final correlation score is non-zero.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be zero based on determining that an absolute value of the linear correlation score is less than a threshold number and that one minus the fitting function score is less than the threshold number.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the final correlation score is determined to be a greater of the absolute value of the linear correlation score and one minus the fitting function score.
</claims>
</document>
