<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B71/06,G06F16/00,G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F16/951,G06F16/958,G06F17/30,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TIPEVO
</assignee>

<inventors>
STAUB, DAVID
BRAUN, ARMANDO
CONTE, DAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62489498
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Youth sports program cataloging and rating system
</title>

<abstract>
According to a first aspect of the present disclosure, a method of cataloging youth sports is provided that includes: collecting youth sports data, which collecting includes automated electronic searching of the Internet for the youth sports data, and storing the collected youth sports data in at least one data storage device; classifying the collected youth sports data, which classifying includes filtering and analyzing the collected data, and populating portions of the collected data into one or more predetermined candidate profiles; evaluating the one or more candidate profiles relative to a threshold, wherein each of the one or more candidate profiles that satisfy the threshold are identified as a validated profile; and publishing the one or more validated profiles in a web-based application accessible over the Internet.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of cataloging youth sport programs, comprising: collecting youth sport program data, which collecting includes automated electronic searching of a plurality of different data sources on the Internet for the youth sport program data; storing the collected youth sport program data in at least one data storage device; analyzing the collected and stored youth sport program data to identify a plurality of youth sport programs, said analyzing including: classifying the collected youth sport program data, the classifying including filtering and analyzing the collected data to determine a subset of related youth sport program data; verifying the respective youth sport program using the subset of related youth sport program data; producing a validated youth sport program profile for at least some verified youth sport programs, the validated youth sport program profile including a plurality of program specific parameters for the respective verified youth sport program, the program specific parameters including one or more of a current name of the youth sport program, a sport type of the youth sport program, a location of the youth sport program, or one or more contact data for the youth sport program; and publishing the one or more validated youth sport program profiles in a web-based application accessible over the Internet.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of producing a validated youth sport program profile includes validating the youth sports program based on predetermined criteria.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of publishing the one or more validated profiles in a web-based application includes publishing a plurality of validated profiles, each validated profile having a different youth sport program sport type.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the analyzing step includes determining a value for each of a plurality of standardized parameters for the respective verified youth sport program.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters includes one or more of a coaches rating parameter, a youth sport program focus parameter representative of respective emphasis levels of player participation fun, player skill development, and competition for the identified youth sport program, or a youth sport program rating parameter.
6. A method of cataloging youth sport programs, comprising: collecting youth sport program data, which collecting includes automated electronic searching of the Internet for the youth sport program data, and storing the collected youth sport program data in at least one data storage device; analyzing the collected youth sport program data to identify a plurality of youth sport programs, the identification of each said youth sport program including determining a plurality of program specific parameters for the respective youth sport program, the program specific parameters including one or more of a current name of the youth sport program, a sport type of the youth sport program, a location of the youth sport program, or one or more contact data for the youth sport program; analyzing the collected data associated with the identified youth sport program to determine a value for each of a plurality of standardized parameters for the identified youth sport program; populating a youth sport program profile for each identified youth sport program with the plurality of program specific parameters for that said youth sport program and the respective value for each of the plurality of standardized parameters for that said youth sport program; and publishing the populated youth sport program profiles in a web-based application accessible over the Internet.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for the identified youth sport program includes a standardized coaches parameter.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the value for the standardized coaches parameter is based on at least one of a plurality of coach parameters, the plurality of coach parameters including a minimum age of a coach identified with the youth sport program, a medical certification of the coach, a coaching experience value for the coach representative of an amount of time the coach has coached the youth sport program sport type, a playing experience value for the coach representative of an amount of time the coach has played the youth sport program sport type, a coaching certification of the coach for the youth sport program sport type, and a background check of the coach.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the value for the standardized coaches parameter is based on a plurality of predetermined levels for the coach identified with the youth sport program.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the predetermined levels include: a first level based on at least one of the plurality of coach parameters; a second level based on at least two of the plurality of coach parameters; a third level based on at least three of the plurality of coach parameters; and a fourth level based on at least four of the plurality of coach parameters.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one of the plurality of coach parameters for the first level is a first minimum age of the coach identified with the youth sport program, and the at least four of the plurality of coach parameters for the fourth level includes a second minimum age of the coach identified with the youth sport program, and the second minimum age is greater than the first minimum age.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least two of the plurality of coach parameters for the second level includes a first coaching experience value for the coach representative of an amount of time the coach has coached the youth sport program sport type, and the at least four of the plurality of coach parameters for the fourth level includes a second coaching experience value for the coach representative of an amount of time the coach has coached the youth sport program sport type, and the second coaching experience value is greater than the first coaching experience value.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for the identified youth sport program includes a youth sport program focus parameter representative of respective emphasis levels of player participation fun, player skill development, and competition for the identified youth sport program.
14. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for the identified youth sport program includes at least one of a cost to participate in the identified youth sport program, or a size of the identified youth sport program, the size being representative of a number of teams in the identified youth sport program.
15. The method of claim 6, wherein the step of publishing the populated youth sport program profiles in the web-based application includes publishing a plurality of populated youth sport program profiles having different youth sport program sport types from one another.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for each identified youth sport program includes a standardized coaches parameter, and the standardized coaches parameter for each identified youth sport program is in a standardized format that is substantially the same for each different youth sport program sport type.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for each identified youth sport program includes a youth sport program focus parameter representative of respective emphasis levels of player participation fun, player skill development, and competition for the identified youth sport program, and the youth sport program focus parameter for each identified youth sport program is in a standardized format that is substantially the same for each different youth sport program sport type.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the step of publishing the plurality of populated youth sport program profiles includes grouping regionally related youth sport program profiles.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the grouping of regionally related youth sport program profiles includes youth sport programs having different youth sport program sport types.
20. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of standardized parameters for the identified youth sport program includes a youth sport program rating parameter.
</claims>
</document>
