<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/00,G06F12/0815,G06F12/0897
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMD (ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAS, SHOMIT N.
TOMEI, MATTHEW J.
BEDOUKIAN, PHILIP B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71122815
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Compressing data for storage in cache memories in a hierarchy of cache memories
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device includes at least one compression-decompression functional block and a hierarchy of cache memories with a first cache memory and a second cache memory. The at least one compression-decompression functional block receives data in an uncompressed state, compresses the data using one of a first compression or a second compression, and, after compressing the data, provides the data to the first cache memory for storage therein. When the data is retrieved from the first cache memory to be stored in the second cache memory, when the data is compressed using the first compression, the compression-decompression functional block decompresses the data to reverse effects of the first compression on the data, thereby restoring the data to the uncompressed state and provides the data compressed using the second compression or in the uncompressed state to the second cache memory for storage therein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device that compresses data for storage in cache memories, the electronic device comprising: a hierarchy of cache memories including a first cache memory and a second cache memory, the first cache memory being lower in the hierarchy than the second cache memory; and at least one compression-decompression functional block configured to: receive data in an uncompressed state; compress the data using one of a first compression or a second compression by using the second compression and then using the first compression when using the second compression does not result in compression of the data; after compressing the data, provide the data to the first cache memory for storage therein; when the data is retrieved from the first cache memory to be stored in the second cache memory, when the data is compressed using the first compression, decompress the data to reverse effects of the first compression on the data, thereby restoring the data to the uncompressed state; and provide the data compressed using the second compression or in the uncompressed state to the second cache memory for storage therein.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, further comprising: a third cache memory in the hierarchy of cache memories, the second cache memory being lower in the hierarchy than the third cache memory, wherein: when the data is retrieved from the second cache memory to be stored in the third cache memory, when the data is compressed using the second compression, the at least one compression-decompression functional block: decompresses the data to reverse effects of the second compression on the data, thereby restoring the data to the uncompressed state; and provides the data to the third cache memory for storage therein.
3. The electronic device of claim 2, wherein: the first compression is a heavier-weight compression and the second compression is a lighter-weight compression; and decompressing the data using the lighter-weight compression is faster than decompressing the data using the heavier-weight compression.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein compressing the data using the one of the first compression or the second compression comprises: performing one or more second compression operations of the second compression on the data, the one or more second compression operations compressing data having second properties; and when the one or more compression operations of the second compression do not result in compression of the data due to the data not having the second properties, performing one or more first compression operations of the first compression on the data, the one or more first compression operations compressing data having first properties.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein one or both of the first compression operations and the second compression operations include at least one of pattern matching compression, value matching compression, zero content compression, Lempel-Ziv-based compression, Markov compression, and delta compression.
6. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein, when both the first properties and the second properties are not present in the data, so that neither the first compression nor the second compression results in compression of the data, storing the data in the first cache memory and the second cache memory in the uncompressed state.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein, after compressing data using the one of the first compression or the second compression, the at least one compression-decompression functional block is configured to: update metadata associated with the data to indicate that the data was compressed using a respective one of the first compression or the second compression.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compression-decompression functional block is further configured to: receive other data in the uncompressed state; compress the other data using a sequence of the second compression and the first compression, the first compression supporting variable input formats; after compressing the other data, provide the other data to the first cache memory for storage therein; when the other data is retrieved from the first cache memory to be stored in the second cache memory, decompress the other data to reverse effects of the first compression on the other data, thereby restoring the other data to a state in which the other data is compressed using only the second compression; and provide the other data compressed using the second compression to the second cache memory for storage therein.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the at least one compression-decompression functional block receives the data from a memory.
10. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the data stored in the memory is compressed using a third compression and is decompressed to restore the data to the uncompressed state before the data is forwarded to the compression-decompression functional block.
11. The electronic device of claim 9, wherein the data is compressed using a third compression for communication via one or more communication links between the memory and the at least one compression-decompression functional block.
12. A method for compressing data for storage in cache memories in an electronic device that comprises a hierarchy of cache memories including a first cache memory and a second cache memory, the first cache memory being lower in the hierarchy than the second cache memory, and at least one compression-decompression functional block, the method comprising: receiving, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, data in an uncompressed state; compressing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data using one of a first compression or a second compression by using the second compression and then using the first compression when using the second compression does not result in compression of the data; after compressing the data, providing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data to the first cache memory for storage therein; when the data is retrieved from the first cache memory to be stored in the second cache memory, when the data is compressed using the first compression, decompressing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data to reverse effects of the first compression on the data, thereby restoring the data to the uncompressed state; and providing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data compressed using the second compression or in the uncompressed state to the second cache memory for storage therein.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein: the electronic device further comprises a third cache memory in the hierarchy of cache memories, the second cache memory being lower in the hierarchy than the third cache memory; and the method further comprises: when the data is retrieved from the second cache memory to be stored in the third cache memory, when the data is compressed using the second compression: decompressing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data to reverse effects of the second compression on the data, thereby restoring the data to the uncompressed state; and providing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data to the third cache memory for storage therein.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein: the first compression is a heavier-weight compression and the second compression is a lighter-weight compression; and decompressing the data using the lighter-weight compression is faster than decompressing the data using the heavier-weight compression.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein compressing the data using the one of the first compression or the second compression comprises: performing one or more second compression operations of the second compression on the data, the one or more second compression operations compressing data having second properties; and when the one or more compression operations of the second compression do not result in compression of the data due to the data not having the second properties, performing one or more first compression operations of the first compression on the data, the one or more first compression operations compressing data having first properties.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein one or both of the first compression operations and the second compression operations include at least one of pattern matching compression, value matching compression, zero content compression, Lempel-Ziv-based compression, Markov compression, and delta compression.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein, when both the first properties and the second properties are not present in the data, so that neither the first compression nor the second compression results in compression of the data, the method further comprises: storing the data in the first cache memory and the second cache memory in the uncompressed state.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises, after compressing data using the one of the first compression or the second compression: updating, by the compression-decompression functional block, metadata associated with the data to indicate that the data was compressed using a respective one of the first compression or the second compression.
19. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, other data in the uncompressed state; compressing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the other data using a sequence of the second compression and the first compression, the first compression supporting variable input formats; after compressing the other data, providing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the other data to the first cache memory for storage therein; when the other data is retrieved from the first cache memory to be stored in the second cache memory, decompress the other data to reverse effects of the first compression on the other data, thereby restoring the other data to a state in which the other data is compressed using only the second compression; and providing, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the other data compressed using the second compression to the second cache memory for storage therein.
20. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving, by the at least one compression-decompression functional block, the data from a memory, the data being compressed using a third compression for storage in the memory and decompressed for communication to the at least one compression-decompression functional block.
</claims>
</document>
