<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01Q1/28,H01Q3/26,H04B17/336,H04B7/06,H04B7/185,H04W16/28,H04W28/20,H04W64/00,H04W72/04,H04W76/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE AVIATION SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MISENHEIMER, STEVEN LANE
STEFFLER, JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62495559
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Line of sight aircraft data transfer system
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for establishing a establishing of a high-bandwidth data connection with an aircraft using highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions are provided. In one example, a method comprises: determining a first line of sight that is unobstructed to an antenna of an aircraft, establishing a wireless data connection having a defined data transfer rate between the aircraft and the communication device using highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions along the unobstructed line of sight, transferring a defined amount of data between the aircraft and the communication device using the wireless data connection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a transmission from an aircraft; determining, by the system, an unobstructed line of sight between the aircraft and a communication device; transmitting, by the system via the communication device, one or more first highly directional electromagnetic (EM) beam shaped transmissions along the unobstructed line of sight to the aircraft; receiving, by the system via the communication device, one or more second highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions from the aircraft along the unobstructed line of sight establishing, by the system, a wireless data connection between the communication device and the aircraft using the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions and the one or more second directional highly EM beam shaped transmissions; adjusting, by the system, at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions based on a current value of a bandwidth of the wireless data connection to meet a threshold value of the bandwidth, wherein the threshold value of the bandwidth is selected to complete a data transfer of a defined amount of data between the aircraft and the system; and transferring, by the system, aircraft data between the aircraft and the communication device using the wireless data connection.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the system, the current value of the bandwidth of the wireless data connection.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting, by the system, the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions further based on a current value of a signal-to-noise ratio of the wireless data connection to meet a threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio, wherein the threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio is selected to maintain the bandwidth of the wireless data connection.
4. The method of claim 1, iteratively performing, by the system: determining a change in a location of the aircraft; and steering the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions along modified unobstructed lines of sight between the aircraft and the communication device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the threshold value of the bandwidth based upon an amount of time that the aircraft will be in a defined location.
6. A system, comprising: a first directional antenna; a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor, the memory having stored therein computer-executable instructions, comprising: an adaptive signaling component configured to: receive a transmission from an aircraft; determine an unobstructed line of sight between the aircraft and a communication device; transmit one or more first highly directional electromagnetic (EM) beam shaped transmissions to the aircraft along the unobstructed line of sight; receive one or more second highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions along the unobstructed line of sight from the aircraft establish a wireless data connection having between the communication device and the aircraft using the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions and the one or more second directional highly EM beam shaped transmissions; adjust at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions based on a current value of a bandwidth of the wireless data connection to meet a threshold value of the bandwidth, wherein the threshold value of the bandwidth is selected to complete a data transfer of a defined amount of data between the aircraft and the system; and transfer aircraft data between the aircraft and the communication device using the wireless data connection.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the adaptive signaling component is further configured to determine the current value of the bandwidth of the wireless data connection.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the adaptive signaling component is further configured to adjust the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions further based on a current value of a signal-to-noise ratio of the wireless data connection to meet a threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio, wherein the threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio is selected to maintain the bandwidth of the wireless data connection.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the adaptive signaling component is further configured to iteratively perform: determine a change in a location of the aircraft; and steer the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions along modified unobstructed lines of sight between the aircraft and the communication device.
10. The system of claim 6, wherein the adaptive signaling component is further configured to determine the threshold value of the bandwidth based upon an amount of time that the aircraft will be in a defined location.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution, cause a communication device including a processor to perform operations comprising: determining a line of sight that is unobstructed to an antenna of an aircraft; establishing a wireless data connection having a defined data transfer rate between the aircraft and the communication device using highly directional electromagnetic (EM) beam shaped transmissions along the unobstructed line of sight; adjusting at least one parameter of the highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions based on a current value of a signal-to-noise ratio of the wireless data connection to meet a threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio, wherein the threshold value of the signal-to-noise ratio is selected to maintain the defined data transfer rate; and transferring a defined amount of data between the aircraft and the communication device using the wireless data connection within a defined time window.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a focal arc of the highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a power level of the highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a frequency of the highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the at least one parameter comprises a pattern of the highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions comprises a focal arc of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions comprises a power level of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions comprises a frequency of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions comprises a pattern of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
20. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one characteristic of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions comprises a pattern of the one or more first highly directional EM beam shaped transmissions.
</claims>
</document>
