<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/3563,G01N21/359,G01N33/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEL AVIV UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEN-DOR, EYAL
ESHEL, GIL
SCHWARTZ, GUY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
49879160
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Quantitative assessment of soil contaminants, particularly hydrocarbons, using reflectance spectroscopy
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatus and method for efficiently assessing the results of reflectance spectroscopy on a soil sample to determine the presence of contaminants in the soil, by constructing a model based on analysis of known samples. The model may be constructed using an all possibilities approach and data mining techniques, on a range of samples, for example of different kinds of soil without pollutants and with different levels of pollutants. The Disclosure relates both to the construction of the model and to its use in the field in analyzing soil contaminants.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. Method for quantitative assessment of hydrocarbon contamination in soil using reflectance spectroscopy, the method comprising: obtaining a plurality of soil samples, the samples having respective hydrocarbon contaminants; spectrally analyzing each soil sample using reflectance spectroscopy, said reflectance spectroscopy obtaining spectroscopy data of said respective sample; applying to said sample spectroscopy data of each respective soil sample a plurality of combinations from a set of preprocessing operations; removing ones of said combinations; from each remaining combination generating a respectively different version of said sample spectroscopy data, each version being a respective perturbation of the sample spectroscopy data, each perturbation thereby being generated according to a respective one of said combinations of preprocessing operations, wherein said set of preprocessing operations comprises initial smoothing, multiplicative scatter correction, signal normal variate, absorption, continuum removal, first derivative, second derivative, and final smoothing; using all of said perturbations, generating a model relating said preprocessed spectral data to respective hydrocarbon contaminants, and using said model with spectroscopy data of an additional soil sample having unknown contamination to determine respective unknown contaminants thereby characterizing the hydrocarbon contamination of said additional soil sample.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said building a model comprises: using said respectively different data sets, extracting latent variables; retrieving a first latent variable and making a first prediction of said different contaminants; adding a candidate second latent variable and making a second prediction of said different contaminants, and if said second prediction is more accurate than said first prediction then retaining said candidate second latent variable but if said second prediction is not more accurate than said first prediction then discarding said candidate second latent variable and repeating with a different candidate second variable; iteratively adding further candidate latent variables, and repeating said prediction of said different contaminants, in each case retaining respective candidate latent variables if a corresponding prediction of said different contaminants is more accurate than a preceding estimate; continuing said process until reaching a predetermined number of latent variables.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising verifying said model, prior to said using, by further predicting of soil contaminations of a verification set of additional soil samples with known contaminants.
4. The method of claim 1, comprising using between a third and a half of all possible combinations of said preprocessing operations.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising using all possible combinations of said preprocessing operations of said set except for combinations that contain mutually incompatible preprocessing operations and combinations that provide results that are complex numbers.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said building said model further comprises using a model performance scoring parameter (MPS) defined as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?MPS=% Stability+NRPD−NRMSEP−NnLV description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein said % Stability is obtained by dividing a number of stable models by a number of repetitions for each respectively different data set, said NRPD is a normalized average of a ratio of prediction to deviation, said NRMSEP is a normalized root mean square error in prediction, and said NnLV is a normalized predetermined optimal number of latent variables.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said spectroscopy comprises visible or near infra-red spectroscopy.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said spectrally analyzing is carried out within a wavelength range lying between 350 and 2500 nm.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said set of different preprocessing operations comprises data mining operations, said data mining operations in turn comprising both linear and non-linear algorithms.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein said set of different data mining operations comprises at least two members of the group consisting of: artificial neural networks, genetic algorithms, support vector machines, fuzzy logic, partial least squares, multiple linear regression, metric learning and principle component regression.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising arranging said pre-processed spectroscopy data into datasets using conditioned Latin Hypercube Sampling.
12. The method of claim 1, comprising taking said plurality of different soil samples from a plurality of different contamination types.
13. A testing device for testing soil samples for contamination, the testing device comprising: a current test soil sample o, the current test soil sample having one or more unknown soil contaminants; a spectrometer or spectral imager configured to carry out reflectance spectroscopy on said current test sample, thereby to obtain a spectral data set from said current test sample; a spectral preprocessor configured to carry out a plurality of different combinations of a set of predefined preprocessing operations, each combination providing a different perturbation of said spectral data set, said spectral preprocessor further configured to remove ones of said combinations; a parameterizer, configured to obtain current sample spectral parameters from remaining ones of said combinations, thereby obtaining parameters of respectively different perturbations of said data set, each perturbation thereby being generated according to a respective one of said combinations of preprocessing operations, wherein said set of preprocessing operations comprises initial smoothing, multiplicative scatter correction, signal normal variate, absorption, continuum removal, first derivative, second derivative, and final smoothing; a model relating sets of spectral parameters obtained from spectroscopy data to respective associated one or more soil contaminants; and a spectral comparator configured to compare spectral parameter sets of said model with said spectral parameters of said current soil sample to find a set from said model that matches said spectral parameters of said current soil sample, said model thereby identifying a respective associated one or more contaminations; and an output for indicating said respective associated one or more contaminants, thereby characterizing said current test soil sample in terms of its contaminants.
</claims>
</document>
