<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2457,G06F16/93,G06F16/951,G06F16/9535,G06F16/958,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRANCIS, PETER M.
GOODMAN, TANYA
WESTER, AARON M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64657424
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for optimizing and simulating webpage ranking and traffic
</title>

<abstract>
This application is directed to quantitatively optimizing and simulating webpage search engine ranking, webpage traffic associated with a search engine, and user interactions with webpage content leading to conversions. For example, a search engine response model can determine how ranking factors of a webpage can affect a ranking of the webpage with respect to a keyword. A ranking factor response model can determine how attributes of a webpage affect the ranking factors. An addressable market can be determined for a webpage by determining keywords and key phrases associated with a webpage, as well as a volume of web traffic associated with the keywords and key phrases. As attributes of a webpage are adjusted, the operations herein can simulate an expected webpage ranking and traffic volume based on the adjusted attributes, and identify optimization factors leading to increased ranking, traffic, and conversions by level of influence for targeted webpages.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining one or more ranking factors associated with a webpage, a search engine ranking of the webpage being determined based at least in part on the one or more ranking factors; determining one or more webpage attributes associated with the webpage, a ranking factor of the one or more ranking factors being determined based at least in part on the one or more webpage attributes; determining an addressable market of a good or a service associated with the webpage based at least in part on an n-gram analysis of one or more keywords that correspond to the good or the service, the one or more keywords being based at least in part on content associated with a third-party webpage that is separate from the webpage; determining a current ranking and a current traffic level associated with the webpage based on results from a search engine, the results based at least in part on a keyword; simulating at least one change to the webpage to determine an updated ranking and an updated traffic level based at least in part on the at least one change, the simulating the at least one change to the webpage based at least in part on a coefficient model determining correlations between individual webpage attributes and individual ranking factors; receiving, via a graphical user interface, a user input indicating a preferred selection rate corresponding to a probability that a search result associated with the updated ranking will be selected in a group of search results; applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate an updated webpage, the applying based at least in part on the updated ranking, the updated traffic level, and the user input indicating the preferred selection rate; and publishing the updated webpage for public access and for indexing by the search engine.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising updating at least a portion of the one or more webpage attributes based at least in part on the at least one change to the webpage.
3. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving at least one seed term associated with the webpage; analyzing the content associated with the third-party webpage to determine the one or more keywords associated with the at least one seed term, the one or more keywords based at least in part on the n-gram analysis; and determining a volume of traffic originating from the search engine, the volume of traffic based at least in part on the one or more keywords.
4. The system of claim 3, the operations further comprising: receiving web analytics associated with the webpage; calibrating, as a calibrated volume of traffic, the volume of traffic based at least in part on the web analytics; and simulating the at least one change to the webpage to determine the updated ranking and the updated traffic level based at least in part on the calibrated volume of traffic.
5. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: determining one or more ranking factors associated with a webpage; determining one or more webpage attributes associated with the webpage; determining an addressable market of a good or a service associated with the webpage based at least in part on an n-gram analysis of one or more keywords that correspond to the good or the service, the one or more keywords being based at least in part on content associated with a third-party webpage that is separate from the webpage; determining a current ranking and a current traffic level associated with the webpage based on results from a search engine; simulating at least one change to the webpage to determine an updated ranking and an updated traffic level based at least in part on the at least one change, the simulating the at least one change to the webpage based at least in part on a coefficient model determining correlations between individual webpage attributes and individual ranking factors; receiving, via a graphical user interface, a user input indicating a preferred selection rate corresponding to a probability that a search result associated with the updated ranking will be selected in a group of search results; and applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate an updated webpage based at least in part on the updated ranking, the updated traffic level, and the user input indicating the preferred selection rate.
6. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: receiving at least one seed term associated with the webpage; analyzing the content associated with the third-party webpage to determine the one or more keywords associated with the at least one seed term, the one or more keywords based at least in part on the n-gram analysis; and determining a volume of traffic originating from the search engine, the volume of traffic based at least in part on the one or more keywords.
7. The system of claim 6, the operations further comprising: determining, for a keyword of the one or more keywords, a weighted index value; and ordering the keyword within the one or more keywords based on a priority associated with the weighted index value.
8. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising estimating a search engine ranking of the webpage based at least in part on a search engine response model based at least in part on the one or more ranking factors.
9. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising determining the one or more webpage attributes based on at least one of webpage content, webpage format, or webpage security associated with the webpage.
10. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising publishing the updated webpage for public access and for indexing by the search engine.
11. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: determining a ranking difference between the current ranking and the updated ranking; determining that the ranking difference is above a threshold ranking difference value; and applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate the updated webpage based at least in part on the ranking difference being above the threshold ranking difference value.
12. The system of claim 5, the operations further comprising: determining a traffic difference between the current traffic level and the updated traffic level; determining that the traffic difference is above a threshold traffic difference value; and applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate the updated webpage based at least in part on the traffic difference being above the threshold traffic difference value.
13. A processor-implemented method comprising: determining one or more ranking factors associated with a webpage; determining one or more webpage attributes associated with the webpage; determining an addressable market of a good or a service associated with the webpage based at least in part on an n-gram analysis of one or more keywords that correspond to the good or service, the one or more keywords being based at least in part on content associated with a third-party webpage that is separate from the webpage; determining a current ranking and a current traffic level associated with the webpage based on results from a search engine; simulating at least one change to the webpage to determine an updated ranking and an updated traffic level based at least in part on the at least one change, the simulating the at least one change to the webpage based at least in part on a coefficient model determining correlations between individual webpage attributes and individual ranking factors; receiving, via a graphical user interface, a user input indicating a preferred selection rate corresponding to a probability that a search result associated with the updated ranking will be selected in a group of search results; and applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate an updated webpage, the applying based at least in part on the updated ranking, the updated traffic level, and the user input indicating the preferred selection rate.
14. The processor-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving at least one seed term associated with the webpage; analyzing the content associated with the third-party webpage to determine the one or more keywords associated with the at least one seed term, the one or more keywords based at least in part on the n-gram analysis; and determining a volume of traffic originating from the search engine, the volume of traffic based at least in part on the one or more keywords.
15. The processor-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: determining, for a keyword of the one or more keywords, a weighted index value; and ordering the keyword within the one or more keywords based on a priority associated with the weighted index value.
16. The processor-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising estimating a search engine ranking of the webpage based at least in part on a search engine response model based at least in part on the one or more ranking factors.
17. The processor-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising determining the one or more webpage attributes based on at least one of webpage content, webpage format, or webpage security associated with the webpage.
18. The processor-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising: determining a traffic difference between the current traffic level and the updated traffic level; determining that the traffic difference is above a threshold traffic difference value; and applying the at least one change to the webpage to generate the updated webpage based at least in part on the traffic difference being above the threshold traffic difference value.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise presenting an interactive element with a graphical presentation of the updated ranking at the graphical user interface, wherein receiving the user input comprises receiving an interaction with the interactive element.
20. The processor-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising presenting an interactive element with a graphical presentation of the updated ranking at the graphical user interface, wherein receiving the user input comprises receiving an interaction with the interactive element.
</claims>
</document>
