<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/03,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, WENHUA
XIONG MING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60082631
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System, device, and method for image anomaly detection
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for detecting image anomalies include extracting one or more detected images from a submission file received from at least one computing device and generating an image identification (ID) for each of the one or more images. One or more image quality indices are determined for the submission file based on at least one of predetermined image features, an image type of the one or more images, and submission file attributes, and one or more image anomalies associated with the one or more images of the submission file are detected based on at least one of the image ID and the one or more image quality indices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: processing circuitry configured to: extract one or more images from a submission file obtained from at least one computing device, generate, for each of the one or more images, an image identification (ID) value as a combination of pixel brightness values of the respective image, determine one or more image quality indices for the submission file based on at least one of predetermined image features, an image type of the one or more images, and submission file attributes, and detect one or more image anomalies associated with the one or more images, wherein the one or more image anomalies include at least one of image duplication anomalies detected based on the image ID values of two or more of the images, image quality anomalies detected based on the image quality indices, and image modification anomalies detected based on at least one of the image ID values or the image quality indices.
2. The device of claim 1, the processing circuitry is further configured to output, in response to detecting one or more image anomalies associated with the one or more images of the submission file, an image anomaly report to the at least one computing device.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to identify the image type of each of the one or more images as at least one of an outdoor view, an indoor view, a satellite image, a street map image, a scanned document, a certificate, or a hand drawn image.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to generate an image data table for the submission file having one or more entries for each of the one or more images, each entry including at least one of the image ID values and the predetermined image features.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to generate a summary data table for the submission file including at least one of the one or more image quality indices and the submission file attributes.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more image quality indices include at least one of a file completeness index, an image resolution index, an image brightness index, an image contrast index, and a size consistency index.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the file completeness index for the submission file based on the submission file attributes and a predetermined file submission standard.
8. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the image resolution index based on image resolution of the one or more images and a predetermined image resolution standard.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the processing circuitry determines the image resolution index by determining a photo index value for each of the one or more images of the submission file based on a size of each of the one or more images and the predetermined image resolution standard, and calculating the image resolution index based on an average of photo index values.
10. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the image brightness index based on brightness values of one or more pixels and a predetermined image brightness standard.
11. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the image contrast index for the submission file based on an amount of an image having contrast values greater than an upper contrast threshold or less than a lower contrast threshold.
12. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines the size consistency index for the submission file based on an amount of consistency between image sizes of the one or more images.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to detect an image modification anomaly when the size consistency index for the submission file is less than a predetermined size consistency threshold.
14. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry is further configured to dismiss detection of an image duplication anomaly when identifying a previously submitted file associated with the submission file and submitted within a predetermined period of time.
15. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to detect an image quality anomaly when an image quality index for the submission file is less than a predetermined image quality threshold.
16. The device of claim 6, wherein the processing circuitry determines at least one of the image brightness index and the image contrast index based in part on the image type of the one or more images.
17. A method comprising: extracting, by processing circuitry of one or more computing systems, one or more images from a submission file obtained from at least one computing device; generating, by the processing circuitry, an image identification (ID) value for each of the one or more images as a combination of pixel brightness values of the respective image; determining, by the processing circuitry, one or more image quality indices for the submission file based on at least one of predetermined image features, an image type of the one or more images, and submission file attributes; and detecting, by the processing circuitry, one or more image anomalies associated with the one or more images, wherein the one or more image anomalies include at least one of image duplicate anomalies detected based on the image ID values of two or more of the images, image quality anomalies detected based on the image quality indices, and image modification anomalies detected based on at least one of the image ID values or the image quality indices.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed by processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to perform a method comprising: extracting one or more images from a submission file obtained from at least one computing device; generating, for each of the one or more images, an image identification (ID) value as a combination of pixel brightness values of the respective image; determining one or more image quality indices for the submission file based on at least one of predetermined image features, an image type of the one or more images, and submission file attributes; and detecting one or more image anomalies associated with the one or more images, wherein the one or more image anomalies include at least one of image duplicate anomalies detected based on the image ID values of two or more of the images, image quality anomalies detected based on the image quality indices, and image modification anomalies detected based on at least one of the image ID values or the image quality indices.
</claims>
</document>
