<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0354
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LENOVO (SINGAPORE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MESE, JOHN CARL
PETERSON, NATHAN J.
VANBLON, RUSSELL SPEIGHT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746894
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Presentation of indication of location of mouse cursor based on jiggling of mouse cursor
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a device includes at least one processor, at least one display accessible to the at least one processor, and storage accessible to the at least one processor. The storage includes instructions executable by the at least one processor to identify jiggling or other back and forth movement of a mouse cursor. The instructions are also executable to, based on the identification, present at least one indication on the at least one display of a current location on the at least one display of the mouse cursor. The at least one indication includes something other than the mouse cursor itself.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: at least one processor; at least one display accessible to the at least one processor; and storage accessible to the at least one processor and comprising instructions executable by the at least one processor to: identify jiggling of a mouse cursor; responsive to the identification of the jiggling of the mouse cursor, identify a current location of the mouse cursor on at least one display; receive input from a camera in communication with the at least one processor; identify, based on the input from the camera, a location of the at least one display at which a user is looking; determine, based on the location of the at least one display at which the user is looking, whether the user is looking at a display location at least within a threshold distance of the current location of the mouse cursor; responsive to a determination that the user is looking at a display location outside of the threshold distance of the current location of the mouse cursor, present at least one indication on the at least one display of the current location of the mouse cursor, the at least one indication comprising something other than the mouse cursor itself; and responsive to a determination that the user is looking at a display location at least within the threshold distance of the current location of the mouse cursor, decline to present the at least one indication.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one indication comprises at least one graphical object.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one graphical object comprises a circle that animates to reduce its radius around a center of the circle, the center of the circle established by at least a portion of the mouse cursor.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one graphical object comprises plural concentric circles of different radii that together either animate to expand their radii about a center established by at least a portion of the mouse cursor or animate to reduce their radii about a center established by at least a portion of the mouse cursor.
5. The device of claim 2, wherein the at least one graphical element comprises at least one arrow different from the mouse cursor and that is larger than the mouse cursor.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the at least one arrow flashes between presentation and non-presentation on the at least one display.
7. The device of claim 5, wherein the at least one arrow is presented in a first color different from one or more colors in which the mouse cursor is presented.
8. The device of claim 1, comprising the camera.
9. The device of claim 8, comprising an input device that controls the mouse cursor.
10. The device of claim 1, comprising an input device that controls the mouse cursor.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the jiggling comprises back and forth movement of the mouse cursor.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the input from the camera is first input from the camera, wherein the at least one display comprises discrete first and second displays, and wherein the instructions are executable by the at least one processor to: receive second input from the camera; identify, based on the second input from the camera, that the user is looking at the first display; identify that the mouse cursor is currently presented on the second display; and responsive to identification of movement of the mouse cursor and based on the identifications that the user is looking at the first display and that the mouse cursor is currently presented on the second display, present the at least one indication on the second display.
13. The device of claim 12, wherein the movement of the mouse cursor does not comprise jiggling.
14. The device of claim 12, wherein the second input from the camera is different from the first input from the camera.
15. The device of claim 12, wherein the second input from the camera is the same as the first input from the camera.
16. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one display comprises discrete first and second displays, wherein the mouse cursor is currently presented on the first display, and wherein the instructions are executable by the at least one processor to: highlight a border of the first display as at least part of the at least one indication.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the highlighting of the border is performed in addition to presentation of at least one graphical object that at least in part establishes the at least one indication.
18. A method, comprising: identifying back and forth movement of a pointer currently presented on one of a first display and a second display, the first and second displays being different from each other; identifying that a user is looking at one of the first display and the second display; responsive to identifying that the user is looking at a different display than the one on which the pointer is presented, presenting at least one indication of a current location of the pointer, the at least one indication comprising something other than the pointer itself; and responsive to identifying that the user is looking at the same display as the one on which the pointer is presented, declining to present the at least one indication of the current location of the pointer.
19. A computer readable storage medium (CRSM) that is not a transitory signal, the computer readable storage medium comprising instructions executable by at least one processor to: identify back and forth movement of a pointer currently presented on one of a first display and a second display, the first and second displays being different from each other; identify that a user is looking at one of the first display and the second display; responsive to identifying that the user is looking at a different display than the one on which the pointer is presented, present at least one indication of a current location of the pointer, the at least one indication comprising something other than the pointer itself; and responsive to identifying that the user is looking at the same display as the one on which the pointer is presented, decline to present the at least one indication of the current location of the pointer.
20. The CRSM of claim 19, wherein the at least one indication comprises at least one graphical element.
</claims>
</document>
