<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06F3/16,G06F40/134,G06F40/169,G06F40/279,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06,G10L15/00,G10L15/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINDHWANI, MANOJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63762064
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Embedded instructions for voice user interface
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for rendering lists of instructions and performing actions associated with those lists are described herein. In some embodiments, an individual may request that a voice activated electronic device associated with their user account assist in performing a task using a list of instructions. The list of instructions may include metadata that indicates actions capable of being performed by additional Internet of Things ("IoT") devices. When the instructions are rendered, an instructions speechlet may recognize the metadata and may cause one or more of the IoT devices to perform a particular action. Furthermore, the metadata may also correspond to content capable of being rendered by the voice activated electronic device to assist the individual in performing a particular step of the instructions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, from a first device associated with a user account, audio data representing a user input; determining the user input corresponds to a task; determining first data corresponding to a list of instructions associated with the task, the list of instructions to be performed in a particular order; determining the list of instructions comprises a first instruction; determining the user account is associated with a second device configured to perform functionality associated with the first instruction; and causing the second device to perform the functionality.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing a second user input; determining the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata representing a third user input associated with the first instruction; determining a similarity between the second user input and the third user input; and based at least in part on the similarity, performing natural language processing with respect to the second user input.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing a second user input; determining the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata representing a third user input associated with the first instruction; determining a similarity between the second user input and the third user input; and based at least in part on the similarity, determining a pre-established response to the second user input.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining the pre-established response by determining the first data comprises second metadata associated with the first instruction, the second metadata corresponding to a link to visual content corresponding to the first instruction; and sending the link to the first device.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata indicating a device type; and determining the second device corresponds to the device type, wherein the second device is caused to perform the functionality based at least in part on the metadata indicating the device type and the second device corresponding to the device type.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the first data comprises metadata indicating an item associated with the task; determining the user account is associated with a third device configured to store items; determining an item database associated with the user account, the item database comprising inventory data indicating at least one item stored by the third device; determining an absence of the item within the item database; and sending, to the first device, second data indicating the absence.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: sending, to the first device, third data requesting whether the item is to be purchased; receiving fourth data representing a second user input; determining the second user input indicates the item is to be purchased; generating fifth data representing a request to purchase the item, the fifth data comprising an account identifier associated with the user account; and sending the fifth data to a purchase fulfillment system.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the second device, second data indicating the functionality has been performed; and sending, to the first device, third data representing the functionality has been performed.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the list of instructions comprises a second instruction; determining the second instruction is associated with a device type; determining the user account is unassociated with a device corresponding to the device type; and sending, to the first device, second data representing the second instruction.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an amount of time associated with the first instruction; determining the amount of time has elapsed; determining the list of instructions comprises a second instruction, the second instruction following the first instruction in the list of instructions; sending, to the first device, second data representing the amount of time has elapsed; and sending, to the first device, third data representing the second instruction.
11. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive, from a first device associated with a user account, audio data representing a user input; determine the user input corresponds to a task; determine first data corresponding to a list of instructions associated with the task, the list of instructions to be performed in a particular order; determine the list of instructions comprises a first instruction; determine the user account is associated with a second device configured to perform functionality associated with the first instruction; and cause the second device to perform the functionality.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing a second user input; determine the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata representing a third user input associated with the first instruction; determine a similarity between the second user input and the third user input; and based at least in part on the similarity, perform natural language processing with respect to the second user input.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing a second user input; determine the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata representing a third user input associated with the first instruction; determine a similarity between the second user input and the third user input; and based at least in part on the similarity, determine a pre-established response to the second user input.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the pre-established response by determining the first data comprises second metadata associated with the first instruction, the second metadata corresponding to a link to visual content corresponding to the first instruction; and send the link to the first device.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first data comprises metadata associated with the first instruction, the metadata indicating a device type; and determine the second device corresponds to the device type, wherein the second device is caused to perform the functionality based at least in part on the metadata indicating the device type and the second device corresponding to the device type.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first data comprises metadata indicating an item associated with the task; determine the user account is associated with a third device configured to store items; determine an item database associated with the user account, the item database comprising inventory data indicating at least one item stored by the third device; determine an absence of the item within the item database; and send, to the first device, second data indicating the absence.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: send, to the first device, third data requesting whether the item is to be purchased; receive fourth data representing a second user input; determine the second user input indicates the item is to be purchased; generate fifth data representing a request to purchase the item, the fifth data comprising an account identifier associated with the user account; and send the fifth data to a purchase fulfillment system.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the second device, second data indicating the functionality has been performed; and send, to the first device, third data representing the functionality has been performed.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the list of instructions comprises a second instruction; determine the second instruction is associated with a device type; determine the user account is unassociated with a device corresponding to the device type; and send, to the first device, second data representing the second instruction.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine an amount of time associated with the first instruction; determine the amount of time has elapsed; determine the list of instructions comprises a second instruction, the second instruction following the first instruction in the list of instructions; send, to the first device, second data representing the amount of time has elapsed; and send, to the first device, third data representing the second instruction.
</claims>
</document>
