<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W16/02,H04W4/70,H04W72/04,H04W72/08,H04W84/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOWLATKHAH, SANGAR
CUI, ZHI
LAU, ERIE LAI HAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69007680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Software-defined extended access network for internet-of-things for a 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
A framework of abstraction of new and existing 5G radios can enhance capabilities of new and existing micro radios and other short range radio technologies to enable intelligent service delivery, dynamic access learning capability, and network slicing over 5G access networks. Enhancing layer communication for both control and user plane can be tunneled through the hosting layer and exploit a common transport provided by the hosting layer. The tunneling through the hosting layer can also enable the enhance capabilities to access the same radio management functions and can be orchestrated by the same core function. Additionally, provisioning processes can be reduced based on the types of Internet-of-things devices being previously connected to a software-defined networking device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: facilitating, by a software-defined network device comprising a processor, receiving, from an internet-of-things device of a group of internet-of-things devices, a first resource request representative of a first requested resource; based on the receiving of the first resource request, facilitating, by the software-defined network device: provisioning the internet-of-things device to utilize a wireless communication protocol; and sending first resource request data representative of the first resource request to an access slice layer of a wireless network; in response to the sending of the first resource request data, facilitating, by the software-defined network device, a resource allocation to fulfill the first resource request from the internet-of-things device; facilitating, by the software-defined network device, receiving, from the internet-of-things devices other than the internet-of-things device, a second resource request representative of a second requested resource; based on the provisioning the internet-of-things device to utilize the wireless communication protocol, facilitating, by the software-defined network device, provisioning the internet-of-things devices to utilize the wireless communication protocol, resulting in a first provisioning of the internet-of-things device; and facilitating, by the software-defined network device, storing the wireless communication protocol in the access slice layer to prevent a second provisioning of the internet-of-things device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the provisioning of the internet-of-things device to utilize the wireless communication protocol comprises provisioning the internet-of-things device to utilize a wireless fidelity device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the facilitating of the internet-of-things devices to utilize the wireless communication protocol comprises facilitating the internet-of-things devices to utilize the wireless fidelity device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first requested resource is a bandwidth to be allocated to the internet-of-things device based on a policy.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: based on a service level agreement associated with a hosting layer, allocating, by the software-defined network device, the first requested resource to the internet-of-things device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the internet-of-things device is a smart light bulb, and wherein the internet-of-things devices are smart light bulbs.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the provisioning of the smart light bulb prevents provisioning of other smart light bulbs.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving first resource request data representative of a first resource request from a first internet-of-things device via a network: in response to the receiving of the first resource request data, provisioning the first internet-of-things device to utilize a communication protocol; and sending the first resource request data representative of the first resource request to an access slice layer enabled via the network; in response to the sending of the first resource request data, facilitating a resource allocation to fulfill the first resource request from the internet-of-things device; receiving, from internet-of-things devices other than the internet-of-things device, a second resource request representative of a second requested resource; based on the provisioning the internet-of-things device to utilize the communication protocol, facilitating provisioning the internet-of-things devices to utilize the communication protocol, resulting in a first provisioning of the internet-of-things device; and storing the communication protocol in the access slice layer to prevent a second provisioning of the second internet-of-things device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: tunneling a resource of an enhancing layer enabled via the network, via a hosting layer enabled via the network, to fulfill the first resource request for the first internet-of-things device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the tunneling comprises utilizing an existing connection between a base station device of the hosting layer and a software-defined network device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the resource comprises a bandwidth of a wireless fidelity device, accessed via the tunneling, to be utilized by the first internet-of-things device.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: removing a resource from a first network service to be utilized by a second network service.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the provisioning of the second internet-of-things device to utilize the wireless communication protocol in accordance with the provisioning the first internet-of-things device comprises accessing, via a software-defined network device, provisioning data associated with the provisioning the first internet-of-things device.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: aggregating resources into a communication resource pool to be utilized by a software-defined network of devices.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: facilitating receiving first resource request data representative of a first resource request from a first internet-of-things device; in response to the receiving of the first resource request data, facilitating: sending the first resource request data to an access layer; and provisioning the first internet-of-things device to utilize a wireless communication protocol; in response to the sending of the first resource request data, facilitating a first resource allocation to fulfill the first resource request from the internet-of-things device; facilitating receiving second resource request data representative of a second resource request from a second internet-of-things device; facilitating storing the wireless communication protocol in the access layer to preclude a second provisioning of the second internet-of-things device; and in response to the facilitating of the receiving of the second resource request data representative of the second resource request from the second internet-of-things device, facilitating a second resource allocation to fulfill the second resource request for the second internet-of-things device in accordance with the provisioning of the first internet-of-things device to utilize the wireless communication protocol.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the provisioning of the first internet-of-things device comprises provisioning the second internet-of-things device based on a similarity between the first internet-of-things device and the second internet-of-things device.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the facilitating of the resource allocation comprises terminating a utilization of the resource.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the provisioning of the first internet-of-things device to utilize the wireless communication protocol comprises provisioning the first internet-of-things device to utilize a Bluetooth device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the resource is an amount of bandwidth to be allocated to the first internet-of-things device based on a policy associated with a hosting layer.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a service level agreement associated with the hosting layer, allocating the resource to the first internet-of-things device.
</claims>
</document>
