<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N27/12,G01N33/00,G01N33/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALPHA M.O.S.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LOUBET, FRANÇOIS
MIFSUD, JEAN-CHRISTOPHE
SHIM, CHANG-HYUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54396809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gas sensor controller
</title>

<abstract>
An olfactometer or "electronic nose" is able to vary a plurality of operating parameters during a test cycle in parallel, in accordance with a measurement protocol. This measurement protocol, and correspondingly the operating parameters to be varied, the values to be set for those parameters, and the timing of the variation in these values is tailored to most effectively distinguish between likely candidates in a particular testing scenario. A characterisation library is then used to match the results of the measurement protocol to the best target in the characterisation library. Test protocols and/or characterisation libraries may be downloaded from a remote server on demand, and certain activities may be carried out either locally or remotely.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for characterizing a gas sample, said system comprising a gas sensor, a controller and a memory, wherein said controller is adapted to identify a sample type of said gas sample, and to modify two or more operating conditions of said gas sensor during a measurement cycle in accordance with a measurement protocol corresponding to said sample type, and determining at what times during said measurement cycle readings should be taken, and what values should be set for said first operating condition and said second operating condition to discriminate most clearly between target characterizations corresponding to said sample type, said measurement cycle starting with an initial reading from said gas sensor and ending with a final reading from said gas sensor, and comprising a plurality of measurements sufficient for said characterization, and wherein said controller is further adapted to compare the readings received from said gas sensor throughout said measurement cycle with a plurality of target characterizations stored in said memory, each said target characterization being associated with a respective category, and classifying said gas sample in the category of whichever candidate measured characterizations most closely matches said readings.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said controller is adapted to modify the first and second operating conditions to values specified in said measurement protocol.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein said controller is adapted to initiate said measurement cycle, to modify said two or more operating conditions and to record said measurements at times specified in said measurement protocol.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein said system further comprises a communications interface, permitting communication with a remote processor, and wherein said controller is further adapted to transmit the readings received from said gas sensor throughout said measurement cycle to said remote processor for comparison with a plurality of candidate measured characterizations.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein said system comprises an ultra violet light source arranged so as to illuminate a reactive surface of said gas sensor, said ultra violet light source coupled to said controller such that said controller can select an intensity or a wavelength of said light source, and wherein the intensity of said light source is one of the operating conditions of the gas sensor.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein said system comprises a heat source arranged so as to heat a reactive surface of said gas sensor, said heat source coupled to said controller such that said controller can modulate an intensity of said heat source, and wherein the intensity of said heat source is one of the operating conditions of the gas sensor.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein said system comprises a voltage source powering said gas sensor, said voltage source coupled to said controller such that said controller can modulate the voltage output of said voltage source, and wherein the voltage of said voltage source is one of the operating conditions of the gas sensor.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein said system comprises a chemical filter situated so as to control access of said gas sample to said gas sensor, said chemical filter comprising a heater coupled to said controller such that said controller can modulate a temperature of output of said chemical filter, and wherein the temperature of said chemical filter is one of the operating conditions of the gas sensor.
9. A method of characterizing a gas sample, said method comprising steps of identifying a sample type of said gas sample, setting initial operating conditions for a gas sensor, initiating a measurement cycle by taking a first reading from said gas sensor, modifying a first specified operating condition of said gas sensor at a first predefined time, modifying a second specified operating condition of said gas sensor at a second predefined time, and terminating said measurement cycle with a final reading from said gas sensor, wherein said steps are defined in a measurement protocol corresponding to said sample type and determining at what times during said measurement cycle readings should be taken, and what values should be set for said first specified operating condition and said second specified operating condition to discriminate most clearly between target characterizations corresponding to said sample type, and comparing said readings from said gas sensor with a plurality of target characterizations, each said target characterization being associated with a respective category, and classifying said gas in the category of whichever candidate measured characterizations most closely matches said readings.
10. The method of claim 9 comprising the further steps of transmitting said the readings to a remote processor for comparison with a plurality of candidate measured characterizations, and receiving said characterization from said remote processor.
11. The method of claim 9 further comprising generating said measurement protocol to determine at what times during a measurement cycle readings should be taken, and what values should be set for said first operating condition and said second operating condition to discriminate most clearly between said target characterizations.
12. A method of generating a measurement protocol for use in claim 9, said method comprising determining at what times during a measurement cycle readings should be taken, and what values should be set for said first operating condition and said second operating condition to discriminate most clearly between said target characterizations by applying sequentially all combinations of different operating conditions corresponding to those that the final measurement system is able to modulate to a set of representative samples, and applying a multivariate analysis technique to a resulting matrix.
13. A computer readable non-transitory storage medium having computing instructions stored therein, wherein the computing instructions when executed by one or more processor implement the method of claim 9.
</claims>
</document>
