<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G08G1/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERE GLOBAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
STENNETH, LEON
ZABA, SEBASTIAN
ZHANG, ZHENHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68237033
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, apparatus, and system for propagating learned traffic sign data in a road network
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided for propagating learned traffic sign data. The approach involves, for example, determining a road link to which learned traffic sign data has been assigned. The approach also involves identifying one or more downstream links connected to the road link to which no learned traffic sign data has been assigned. The approach further involves propagating the learned traffic sign data of the road link to the identified one or more downstream links.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for propagating learned traffic sign data comprising: determining, by a processor, a road link to which learned traffic sign data has been assigned; identifying one or more downstream links connected to the road link to which no learned traffic sign data has been assigned, wherein the identifying of the one or more downstream links is further based on determining that a downstream road attribute of the one or more downstream links matches a road attribute of the road link; and propagating the learned traffic sign data of the road link to the identified one or more downstream links.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the downstream road attribute and the road attribute is a functional class attribute.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the learned traffic sign data relates to learned speed limit sign data including a learned speed value.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: recursively identifying one or more subsequent downstream links connected to each of the one or more downstream links based on the one or more subsequent downstream links having no assigned learned traffic sign data; and recursively assigning the learned traffic sign data of the road link to the identified one or more subsequent downstream links.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the recursive identifying of the one or more subsequent downstream links, the recursive assigning of the learned traffic sign data, or a combination thereof is performed until a maximum number of recursion cycles is reached.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the maximum number of recursion cycles is determined based on a target accuracy level for the propagated learned traffic sign data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the learned traffic sign data is not propagated to the identified one or more downstream links based on determining that the learned traffic sign data indicates that a corresponding learned traffic sign is not applicable to further downstream links.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the traffic sign indicating that the indicated sign value is not applicable for any further downstream links is an "end of speed limit" traffic sign.
9. An apparatus for propagating learned traffic speed data comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code for one or more programs, the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to perform at least the following, determine a road link to which a learned traffic speed sign has been assigned, wherein the learned traffic speed sign is learned by clustering traffic sign observations collected from one or more sensors of a vehicle; identifying one or more downstream links connected to the road link to which no learned traffic speed sign has been assigned within a predetermined period of time, wherein the identifying of the one or more downstream links is further based on determining that a downstream road attribute of the one or more downstream links matches a road attribute of the road link; and propagating the learned traffic speed sign of the road link to the identified one or more downstream links by assigning the learned traffic speed sign to the one or more downstream links.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the assigning of the learned traffic speed sign includes assigning a learned speed value indicated by the learned traffic speed sign to the one or more downstream links.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: recursively identify one or more subsequent downstream links connected to each of the one or more downstream links based on the one or more subsequent downstream links having no assigned learned traffic speed sign; and recursively assign the learned traffic speed sign of the road link to the identified one or more subsequent downstream links.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the recursive identifying of the one or more subsequent downstream links, the recursive assigning of the learned traffic speed sign, or a combination thereof is performed until a maximum number of recursion cycles is reached.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the maximum number of recursion cycles is determined based on a target accuracy level for the propagated learned traffic speed sign.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the learned traffic speed sign is not propagated to the identified one or more downstream links based on determining that the learned traffic speed sign indicates that a speed limit is not applicable to further downstream links.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for propagating learned traffic sign data, carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause an apparatus to perform: determining a first set of road links that are labeled with respective learned traffic sign data; for each road link in the first set of road links, determining a second set of unlabeled downstream road links, wherein the unlabeled road links are unlabeled with respect to the learned traffic sign data and share at least one road attribute with the said each road link; assigning the learned traffic sign data of said each road link to the unlabeled downstream road links in the second set corresponding to said each road link; recursively identifying one or more subsequent downstream links connected to each of the one or more downstream links based on the one or more subsequent downstream links having no assigned learned traffic sign data; and recursively assigning the learned traffic sign data of the road link to the identified one or more subsequent downstream links.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the recursive identifying of the one or more subsequent downstream links, the recursive assigning of the learned traffic sign data, or a combination thereof is performed until a maximum number of recursion cycles is reached.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the learned traffic sign data is not propagated to the identified one or more downstream links based on determining that the learned traffic sign data indicates that a corresponding learned traffic sign is not applicable to further downstream links.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the learned traffic sign data relates to learned speed limit sign data including a learned speed value.
</claims>
</document>
