<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,H04N21/44,H04N21/488,H04N21/81,H04N21/84,H04N21/8547
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISENZE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI GUANGDA
SONG, ZHENG
XU, FAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56788841
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for identifying relevant media content
</title>

<abstract>
Present example embodiments relate generally to systems, devices, and methods for managing video content. The method may include receiving an input video having one or more video frames. The method may also include selecting a video frame from the input video that displays a target product and/or other feature. The method may also include generating an alternative representation of the target product and/or other feature displayed in the selected video frame. The method may also include searching a content database for media content that is likely to pertain to the target product and/or other feature displayed in the selected video frame. The searching of the content database may be performed using the alternative representation of the target product and/or other feature. The method may also include associating a most likely matching media content found, in the searching, to the selected video frame.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing video content, the method comprising: establishing a communication channel with a feature database, the feature database having a plurality of predetermined features; establishing a communication channel with a content database, the content database having a plurality of predetermined media content; receiving an input video; processing the input video, the processing including: segmenting the input video into multiple video frames; identifying one or more video frames from the input video that have a potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; and identifying one or more video frames from the input video that do not have the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; selecting only the one or more video frames from the input video having the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; generating an alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames; processing the generated alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames, the processing including: searching the feature database; and determining a likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and one or more of the predetermined features in the feature database; responsive to a determination, by the processing, that the likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and a particular predetermined feature found in the feature database exceeds a first threshold value: searching the content database; determining a likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature found in the feature database and one or more of the predetermined media content in the content database; and responsive to a determination that the likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature and a particular predetermined media content found in the content database exceeds a second threshold value: associating the particular predetermined media content to the input video; and responsive to a determination, by the processing, that the likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and the particular predetermined feature in the feature database does not exceed the first threshold value: discarding the generated alternative representation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the particular predetermined media content to the input video includes associating the particular predetermined media content to the selected portion of the input video.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the particular predetermined media content to the input video includes associating the particular predetermined media content to the potentially relevant feature in the selected portion of the input video.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the particular predetermined media content to the input video includes enabling access to and/or display the particular predetermined media content before, during, and/or after a playback of the input video.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the associating the particular predetermined media content to the input video includes enabling access to and/or displaying the particular predetermined media content: when a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature; and/or before and/or after a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined features in the feature database include alternative representations of media content, the alternative representations of media content being generated in the same manner as the generating of the alternative representations of the potentially relevant feature.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined features in the feature database include alternative representations of the predetermined media content in the content database.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the searching of the feature database is performed using the generated alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a second alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature, the second alternative representation being different from the generated alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the searching of the content database is performed using the second alternative representation.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining of the likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature and one or more of the predetermined media content in the media content database includes comparing the generated second alternative representation with an alternative representation of the predetermined media content in the media content database.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the input video is a video file and/or a streaming of video content.
13. A method of managing video content, the method comprising: providing a feature database, the feature database having a plurality of predetermined features; providing a content database, the content database having a plurality of predetermined media content; receiving an input video; processing the input video, the processing including: segmenting the input video into multiple video frames; identifying one or more video frames from the input video that have a potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; and identifying one or more video frames from the input video that do not have the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; selecting only the one or more video frames from the input video having the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; generating an alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames; selecting a particular predetermined feature from the feature database, the particular predetermined feature selected based on a determination that the particular predetermined feature is a most likely match to the generated alternative representation from among the plurality of predetermined features in the feature database; selecting a particular predetermined media content from the content database, the particular predetermined media content selected based on a determination that the particular predetermined media content is a most likely match to the selected particular predetermined feature; and associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video; wherein, when a likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature found in the feature database and the generated alternative representation does not exceed a first threshold value: discard the generated alternative representation.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video includes associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the selected portion of the input video.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video includes associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the potentially relevant feature in the selected portion of the input video.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video includes enabling access to and/or displaying the selected particular predetermined media content before, during, and/or after a playback of the input video.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the associating the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video includes enabling access to and/or displaying the selected particular predetermined content: when a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature; and/or before and/or after a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the predetermined features in the feature database include alternative representations of media content, the alternative representations of media content being generated in the same manner as the generating of the alternative representations of the identified potentially relevant feature.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the predetermined features in the feature database include alternative representations of the predetermined media content in the content database.
20. A system for managing video content, the system comprising: a processor configured to: establish a communication channel with a feature database, the feature database having a plurality of predetermined features; establish a communication channel with a media content database, the media content database having a plurality of predetermined media content; receive an input video; process the input video, the processing including: segmenting the input video into multiple video frames; identifying one or more video frames from the input video that have a potential relevant feature displayed in the video frame; and identifying one or more video frames from the input video that do not have the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; select only the one or more video frames from the input video having the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; generate an alternative representation of the identified potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames; process the generated alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames, the processing including: searching the feature database; and determining a likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and one or more of the predetermined features in the feature database; responsive to a determination, by the processing, that the likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and a particular predetermined feature found in the feature database exceeds a first threshold value: search the media content database; and determine a likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature found in the feature database and one or more of the predetermined media content in the media content database; and responsive to a determination that the likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature and a particular predetermined media content found in the media content database exceeds a second threshold value: associate the particular predetermined media content to the input video; and responsive to a determination that the likelihood of match between the generated alternative representation and the particular predetermined feature in the feature database does not exceed the first threshold value: discard the generated alternative representation.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to associate the particular predetermined media content to the selected portion of the input video.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to associate the particular predetermined media content to the potentially relevant feature in the selected portion of the input video.
23. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to enable access to and/or display the particular predetermined media content before, during, and/or after a playback of the input video.
24. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to enable access to and/or displaying the particular predetermined media content: when a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature; and/or before and/or after a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature.
25. A system for managing video content, the system comprising: a processor configured to: communicate with a feature database, the feature database having a plurality of predetermined features; communicate with a content database, the content database having a plurality of predetermined media content; receive an input video; process the input video, the processing including: segmenting the input video into multiple video frames; identifying one or more video frames from the input video that have a potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; and identifying one or more video frames from the input video that do not have the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; select only the one or more video frames from the input video having the potentially relevant feature displayed in the video frame; generate an alternative representation of the potentially relevant feature displayed in the selected one or more video frames; select a particular predetermined feature from the feature database, the particular predetermined feature selected based on a determination that the particular predetermined feature is a most likely match to the generated alternative representation from among the plurality of predetermined features in the feature database; select a particular predetermined media content from the content database, the particular predetermined media content selected based on a determination that the particular predetermined media content is a most likely match to the selected particular predetermined feature; and associate the selected particular predetermined media content to the input video; wherein, when a likelihood of match between the particular predetermined feature found in the feature database does not exceed a first threshold value: discard the generated alternative representation.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the processor is configured to associate the selected particular predetermined media content to the selected portion of the input video.
27. The system of claim 25, wherein the processor is configured to associate the selected particular predetermined media content to the potentially relevant feature in the selected portion of the input video.
28. The system of claim 25, wherein the processor is configured to enable access to and/or displaying the selected particular predetermined media content before, during, and/or after a playback of the input video.
29. The system of claim 25, wherein the processor is configured to enable access to and/or displaying the selected particular predetermined content: when a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature; and/or before and/or after a playback of the input video reaches the selected portion that has the potentially relevant feature.
30. A method for managing video content, the method comprising: receiving an input video having a plurality of video frames; selecting a video frame from the input video that displays a target product; identifying one or more portions of the video frame that have the target product displayed in the video frame and identifying one or more portions of the video frame that does not have the target product displayed in the video frame; selecting only the one or more portions of the video frame that have the target product displayed in the video frame; generating an alternative representation of the target product displayed in the selected one or more portions of the video frame; searching a content database for media content that is likely to pertain to the target product displayed in the selected video frame, the searching of the content database performed using the alternative representation of the target product; and associating a most likely matching media content found, in the searching, to the selected video frame; wherein, when a likelihood of match between the most likely matching media content and the alternative representation of the target product does not exceed a first threshold value: discard the alternative representation of the target product.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the associating includes configuring the input video to display the most likely matching media content when the selected video frame is displayed during a playback of the input video.
32. The method of claim 30, wherein the associating includes ensuring the most likely matching media content is displayed before, during, and/or after a playback of the input video.
33. A system for managing video content, the system comprising: a processor configured to: receive an input video having a plurality of video frames; select a video frame from the input video that displays a target product; identify one or more portions of the video frame that have the target product displayed in the video frame and identifying one or more portions of the video frame that does not have the target product displayed in the video frame; select only the one or more portions of the video frame that have the target product displayed in the video frame; generate an alternative representation of the target product displayed in the selected one or more portions of the video frame; search a content database for media content that is likely to pertain to the target product displayed in the selected video frame, the searching of the content database performed using the alternative representation of the target product; and associate a most likely matching media content found, in the searching, to the selected video frame; wherein, when a likelihood of match between the most likely matching media content and the alternative representation of the target product does not exceed a first threshold value: discard the alternative representation of the target product.
</claims>
</document>
