<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/03,A61N5/10,G16H10/60,G16H20/40,G16H40/63,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS
VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABEL, ERIC
ADELSHEIM, CHARLES
KOPONEN, TIMO
MAGLIARI, ANTHONY
MANSFIELD, STANLEY
SMITH, CHRISTEL
VANDERSTRAETEN, REYNALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63244541
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dose aspects of radiation therapy planning and treatment
</title>

<abstract>
Radiation treatment planning includes accessing values of parameters such as a number of beams to be directed into sub-volumes in a target, beam directions, and beam energies. Information that specifies limits for the radiation treatment plan are accessed. The limits include a limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target. Other limits can include a limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume in the target, a limit on dose rate for each sub-volume in the target, and a limit on dose rate for each sub-volume outside the target. The values of the parameters are adjusted until the irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target satisfies the maximum limit on irradiation time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of radiation treatment planning, the method comprising: accessing values of parameters from memory of a computing system, wherein the parameters comprise a number of beams to be directed into sub-volumes in a target, directions of the beams, and beam energies for the beams; accessing information that specifies limits for the radiation treatment plan, wherein the limits comprise a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume of the sub-volumes in the target; adjusting the values of the parameters until the irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target satisfies the maximum limit on irradiation time; and storing the values of the parameters after said adjusting in the memory of the computing system as at least a part of the radiation treatment plan.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each portion of the beams that is in the target is represented as a respective set of longitudinal beam regions, and wherein the method further comprises: for each of the beam regions, computing an amount of dose to be delivered by a beam region and assigning a value to the beam region corresponding to the amount; and for each of the sub-volumes in the target, computing a total value for the sub-volume by adding together the value for each beam region of each beam that reaches the sub-volume; wherein said adjusting further comprises adjusting the parameters that affect calculated amounts of dose to be delivered by the beam regions until differences between respective total values for the sub-volumes in the target satisfy a threshold value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said adjusting further comprises: determining whether a beam overlaps any other beams outside the target; and weighting beam intensities for beam segments of the beam according to how many other beams are overlapped by the beam outside the target.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing a dose calculation for an outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein said performing a dose calculation comprises: accessing a value for a dose calculation factor for the outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein the value for the dose calculation factor is determined according to how many beams reach the outside-the-target sub-volume; calculating a dose for the outside-the-target sub-volume; and applying the value of the dose calculation factor to the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the dose calculation factor reduces the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume if only one beam reaches the outside-the-target sub-volume.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the limits are based on a dose threshold, wherein further the limits are selected from the group consisting of: a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target; a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume in the target; and a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume outside the target.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the dose threshold is dependent on tissue type.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the beams comprise a type of beam selected from the group consisting of: proton; electron; photon; atom nuclei; and ion.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the values of the parameters that affect calculated amounts of dose to be delivered by the beams until calculated total doses for the sub-volumes in the target are each within a specified range.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions for causing a computing system to perform a method of generating a radiation treatment plan, the method comprising: determining a prescribed dose to be delivered into and across a target; accessing values of parameters comprising a number of beams in a plurality of beams to be directed into sub-volumes in the target, directions of the plurality of beams, and beam energies for the plurality of beams, wherein each of the beams comprises a plurality of beam segments; based on the parameters, identifying any overlapping beams in the plurality of beams that have respective beam paths that overlap outside the target; for each beam in the plurality of beams, determining a maximum beam energy for the beam and determining beam energies for the beam segments of the beam as a percentage of the maximum beam energy for the beam; for each overlapping beam of the overlapping beams that overlap outside the target, reducing planned beam intensities for the beam segments of the overlapping beam by a factor, wherein the planned beam intensities for the beam segments for the plurality of beams are determined such that a cumulative dose delivered to the target satisfies the prescribed dose; and storing the planned beam intensities after said reducing in memory of the computing system as at least a part of a radiation treatment plan.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: representing each of the beams in the target as a respective set of longitudinal beam regions, wherein a value corresponding to a calculated amount of dose to be delivered by the beam region is associated with each beam region in the set; for each sub-volume in the target, adding together the value for each beam region of each beam that reaches the sub-volume to determine a total value for the sub-volume, to produce respective total values for the sub-volumes in the target; and adjusting the values of the parameters that affect the calculated amounts of dose to be delivered by the beam regions until differences between the total values for the sub-volumes satisfy a threshold value.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: accessing a value for a dose calculation factor for an outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein the value for the dose calculation factor is determined according to how many beams reach the outside-the-target sub-volume; calculating a dose for the outside-the-target sub-volume; and applying the value of the dose calculation factor to the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein the dose calculation factor reduces the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume if only one beam reaches the outside-the-target sub-volume.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises using a dose threshold to specify limits for the radiation treatment plan, wherein the limits are selected from the group consisting of: a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume in the target; a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target; a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume in the target; and a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume outside the target.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the dose threshold is dependent on tissue type.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the beams comprise a type of beam selected from the group consisting of: proton; electron; photon; atom nuclei; and ion.
16. A computing system comprising: a central processing unit (CPU); and memory coupled to the CPU and having stored therein instructions that, when executed by the computing system, cause the computing system to execute operations to generate a radiation treatment plan, the operations comprising: accessing, from the memory, values of parameters comprising a number of beams to be directed into and across a target, directions of the beams, and beam energies for the beams; for each of the beams, generating a beam profile of calculated amount of dose versus depth in the target as a sequence of beam regions; for each beam region, accessing a value that is assigned to the beam region according to a calculated amount of dose to be delivered by the beam region; determining total values for sub-volumes in the target, said determining comprising: for each sub-volume in the target, adding together the value for each beam region of each of the beams that are received by the sub-volume to determine a total value for the sub-volume; adjusting the values of the parameters that affect the beam profile of each of the beams until the calculated dose inside the target is determined to be uniform across the target as measured by differences between the total values for the sub-volumes; and storing the values of the parameters after said adjusting in the memory as at least a part of the radiation treatment plan.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the beams comprise a beam comprising a plurality of beam segments, wherein said adjusting comprises: determining whether the beam overlaps any other beams outside the target; and weighting beam intensities for the beam segments according to how many other beams are overlapped by the beam outside the target.
18. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise performing a dose calculation for an outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein said performing a dose calculation comprises: accessing a value for a dose calculation factor for the outside-the-target sub-volume, wherein the outside-the-target sub-volume is assigned the value for the dose calculation factor according to how many beams are received by the outside-the-target sub-volume; and calculating a dose for the outside-the-target sub-volume; and multiplying the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume by the value of the dose calculation factor.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the dose calculation factor reduces the dose calculated for the outside-the-target sub-volume if only one beam reaches the outside-the-target sub-volume.
20. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the beams are selected from the group consisting of proton beams and ion beams and have a respective Bragg peak associated therewith, and wherein, for each beam, the value assigned to the beam region corresponding to the Bragg peak of the beam is greater than other values assigned to other beam regions.
21. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise using a tissue-type-dependent dose threshold to specify limits for the radiation treatment plan, wherein the limits are selected from the group consisting of: a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume in the target; a maximum limit on irradiation time for each sub-volume outside the target; a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume in the target; and a minimum limit on dose rate for each sub-volume outside the target.
</claims>
</document>
