<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N5/04,G06T3/40,G06T7/10,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HTC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, CHENG HSIEN
YANG, HUNG-YI
CHO, PO-CHUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65435376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image segmentation method and apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
An image segmentation method for performing image segmentation through a neural network implemented by an image segmentation apparatus is provided. The image segmentation method includes the steps outlined below. An input image is down-sampled to generate down-sampled images. Previous convolution neural network (CNN) data having a first resolution is received to up-sample the previous CNN result to generate an up-sampled previous CNN data having a second resolution. A current down-sampled image of the down-sampled images having the second resolution and the up-sampled previous CNN data are received. Convolution is performed according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate a current image segmentation result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image segmentation method for performing image segmentation through a neural network comprising a plurality of implemented by an image segmentation apparatus comprising: down-sampling an input image by a down-sampling module of the neural network to generate a plurality of down-sampled images having different resolutions each corresponds to one of a plurality of segmentation modules; for a current segmentation module of the segmentation modules of the neural network, receiving previous convolution neural network (CNN) data having a first resolution by a current up-sampling unit of the current segmentation module to up-sample the previous CNN result to generate an up-sampled previous CNN data having a second resolution, wherein the previous CNN data is generated by a previous CNN unit of a previous segmentation module based on a previous down-sampled image of the down-sampled images that has the first resolution; receiving a current down-sampled image of the down-sampled images having the second resolution and the up-sampled previous CNN data by a current CNN unit of the current segmentation module; performing convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate and transmit current CNN data to a next segmentation module by the current CNN unit when the current segmentation module is not a last segmentation module; and performing convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate an image segmentation result by the current CNN unit when the current segmentation module is the last segmentation module.
2. The image segmentation method of claim 1, wherein the previous CNN data comprises a plurality of previous output layer computation results outputted by an output layer of the previous CNN unit or a plurality of previous hidden layer computation results outputted by a hidden layer of the previous CNN unit.
3. The image segmentation method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image by an input layer of the CNN unit; and performing convolution according to the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate current hidden layer computation results by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit and generate current output layer computation results by an output layer of the current CNN unit, wherein the current CNN data is either the current output layer operation results or the current hidden layer computation results.
4. The image segmentation method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the current down-sampled image by an input layer of the current CNN unit; receiving the previous CNN data by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit; and performing convolution according to the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate current hidden layer computation results by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit and generate current output layer computation results by an output layer of the current CNN unit, wherein the current CNN data is either the current output layer operation results or the current hidden layer computation results.
5. The image segmentation method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the image segmentation result by selecting a part of a plurality of current output layer operation results outputted by an output layer of the current CNN unit that has larger values than the other part of the current operation results.
6. The image segmentation method of claim 1, wherein the neural network is a recurrent neural network.
7. The image segmentation method of claim 1, wherein when the previous segmentation module does not exist, the previous image segmentation data is default dummy data.
8. The image segmentation method of claim 1, wherein when the current segmentation module is the last segmentation module, the current CNN unit performs convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image each having the same resolution of the input image to generate the image segmentation result having the same resolution of the input image.
9. An image segmentation apparatus comprising: a storage unit configured to store a plurality of computer-executable instructions; and a processing module electrically coupled to the storage unit and configured to retrieve and execute the computer-executable instructions to perform an image segmentation method for performing image segmentation through a neural network implemented by the processing module when the computer-executable instructions are executed, wherein the image segmentation method comprises: down-sampling an input image by a down-sampling module of the neural network to generate a plurality of down-sampled images having different resolutions each corresponds to one of a plurality of segmentation modules; for a current segmentation module of the segmentation modules of the neural network, receiving previous CNN data having a first resolution by a current up-sampling unit of the current segmentation module to up-sample the previous CNN result to generate an up-sampled previous CNN data having a second resolution, wherein the previous CNN data is generated by a previous CNN unit of a previous segmentation module based on a previous down-sampled image of the down-sampled images that has the first resolution; receiving a current down-sampled image of the down-sampled images having the second resolution and the up-sampled previous CNN data by a current CNN unit of the current segmentation module; performing convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate and transmit current CNN data to a next segmentation module by the current CNN unit when the current segmentation module is not a last segmentation module; and performing convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate an image segmentation result by the current CNN unit when the current segmentation module is the last segmentation module.
10. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the previous CNN data comprises a plurality of previous output layer computation results outputted by an output layer of the previous CNN unit or a plurality of previous hidden layer computation results outputted by a hidden layer of the previous CNN unit.
11. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein image segmentation method the further comprises: receiving the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image by an input layer of the CNN unit; and performing convolution according to the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate current hidden layer computation results by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit and generate current output layer computation results by an output layer of the current CNN unit, wherein the current CNN data is either the current output layer operation results or the current hidden layer computation results.
12. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein image segmentation method the further comprises: receiving the current down-sampled image by an input layer of the current CNN unit; receiving the previous CNN data by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit; and performing convolution according to the previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image to generate current hidden layer computation results by a hidden layer of the current CNN unit and generate current output layer computation results by an output layer of the current CNN unit, wherein the current CNN data is either the current output layer operation results or the current hidden layer computation results.
13. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein image segmentation method the further comprises: generating the image segmentation result by selecting a part of a plurality of current output layer operation results outputted by an output layer of the current CNN unit that has larger values than the other part of the current operation results.
14. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein the neural network is a recurrent neural network.
15. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein when the previous segmentation module does not exist, the previous image segmentation data is default dummy data.
16. The image segmentation apparatus of claim 9, wherein when the current segmentation module is the last segmentation module, the current CNN unit performs convolution according to the up-sampled previous CNN data and the current down-sampled image each having the same resolution of the input image to generate the image segmentation result having the same resolution of the input image.
</claims>
</document>
