<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06K9/66,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COGNIAC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, HUAYAN
KISH, WILLIAM S
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63854557
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data-analysis pipeline with visual performance feedback
</title>

<abstract>
After analyzing images or videos, a computer system may display or present visual performance feedback with an interactive visual representation of a data-analysis pipeline, where the visual representation includes separate and coupled data-analysis operations in a set of data-analysis operations that includes the one or more machine-learning models. Moreover, in response to a user-interface command the specifies a given data-analysis operation, the computer system may display or present a group of images or videos and associated performance information for the given data-analysis operation, where a given image or video corresponds to an instance of the given data-analysis operation. Furthermore, when the computer system receives user feedback about one at least one of the images or videos in the group of images or videos, the computer system performs a remedial action based at least in part on the user feedback. For example, the computer system may dynamically modify the data-analysis pipeline.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system, comprising: an interface circuit configured to communicate, via a network, with one or more electronic devices; memory configured to store program instructions for an analysis module configured to perform a set of data-analysis operations in a data-analysis pipeline, wherein the data-analysis operations comprise one or more machine-learning models, and a display module configured to present visual performance feedback with an interactive visual representation of the data-analysis pipeline, wherein the visual representation comprises separate and coupled data-analysis operation in the set of data-analysis operations; and a processor, coupled to the interface circuit and the memory, configured to execute the program instructions to perform operations comprising: receiving a user-interface command that specifies a given data-analysis operation; in response to the user-interface command, presenting a group of images or videos and associated performance information for the given data-analysis operation, wherein a given image or video corresponds to an instance of the given data-analysis operation, wherein the set of data-analysis operations comprise: identifying a type of object in a first subset of the group of images or videos; and determining numerical values or measurements associated with the type of object in a second subset of the group of images or videos, and wherein the presented group of images or videos comprises: a first graphical indication associated with the identified type of object in the first subset of the group of images or videos, and a second graphical indication associated with the determined numerical values or measurements in the second subset of the group of images or videos; receiving user feedback about at least one of the images or videos in the group of images or videos; and performing a remedial action based at least in part on the user feedback.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the remedial action comprises modifying the data-analysis pipeline based at least in part on the user feedback.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the modification comprises one of: changing the given data-analysis operation, or adding another data-analysis operation to the data-analysis pipeline.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the changing of the given data-analysis operation involves specifying a target signature or a search-area signature.
5. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the adding of the other data-analysis operation involves at least bifurcating the given data-analysis operation.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the operations comprise: receiving a second user-interface command that specifies the given image or video; and presenting the given image or video and associated performance information for the given data-analysis operation.
7. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the group of images or videos comprises outliers having different performance information than a majority of instances of the given data-analysis operation.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the data-analysis operations in the set of data-analysis operations are coupled in series, in parallel or both in the visual representation.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the visual representation corresponds to a workflow in the data-analysis pipeline.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the user feedback comprises one of: a target signature, a search-area signature, or a classification or label.
11. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the one or more machine-learning models comprise a neural network.
12. A method for dynamically modifying a data-analysis pipeline, comprising: by a computer system: executing an analysis module that performs a set of data-analysis operations in the data-analysis pipeline, wherein the data-analysis operations comprise one or more machine-learning models, and a display module that presents visual performance feedback with an interactive visual representation of the data-analysis pipeline, wherein the visual representation comprises separate and coupled data-analysis operation in the set of data-analysis operations; receiving a user-interface command that specifies a given data-analysis operation; in response to the user-interface command, presenting a group of images or videos and associated performance information for the given data-analysis operation, wherein a given image or video corresponds to an instance of the given data-analysis operation, wherein the set of data-analysis operations comprise: identifying a type of object in a first subset of the group of images or videos; and determining numerical values or measurements associated with the type of object in a second subset of the group of images or videos, and wherein the presented group of images or videos comprises: a first graphical indication associated with the identified type of object in the first subset of the group of images or videos, and a second graphical indication associated with the determined numerical values or measurements in the second subset of the group of images or videos; receiving user feedback about at least one of the images or videos in the group of images or videos; and performing a remedial action based at least in part on the user feedback.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the remedial action comprises modifying the data-analysis pipeline based at least in part on the user feedback.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the modifying involves one of: changing the given data-analysis operation, or adding another data-analysis operation to the data-analysis pipeline.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the adding of the other data-analysis operation involves at least bifurcating the given data-analysis operation.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the data-analysis operations in the set of data-analysis operations are coupled in series, in parallel or both in the visual representation.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for use in conjunction with a computer system, the computer-readable storage medium configured to store software, including an analysis module and a display module, that, when executed by the computer system, causes the computer system to: executing the analysis module that performs a set of data-analysis operations in a data-analysis pipeline, wherein the data-analysis operations comprise one or more machine-learning models, and the display module that presents visual performance feedback with an interactive visual representation of the data-analysis pipeline, wherein the visual representation comprises separate and coupled data-analysis operation in the set of data-analysis operations; receiving a user-interface command that specifies a given data-analysis operation; in response to the user-interface command, presenting a group of images or videos and associated performance information for the given data-analysis operation, wherein a given image or video corresponds to an instance of the given data-analysis operation, wherein the set of data-analysis operations comprise: identifying a type of object in a first subset of the group of images or videos; and determining numerical values or measurements associated with the type of object in a second subset of the group of images or videos, and wherein the presented group of images or videos comprises: a first graphical indication associated with the identified type of object in the first subset of the group of images or videos, and a second graphical indication associated with the determined numerical values or measurements in the second subset of the group of images or videos; receiving user feedback about at least one of the images or videos in the group of images or videos; and performing a remedial action based at least in part on the user feedback.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the remedial action comprises modifying the data-analysis pipeline based at least in part on the user feedback.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the modifying involves one of: changing the given data-analysis operation, or adding another data-analysis operation to the data-analysis pipeline.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the adding of the other data-analysis operation involves at least bifurcating the given data-analysis operation.
</claims>
</document>
