<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/958,G06F7/24,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMBLER, STUART MACDONALD
JAIN, PARUL
KENTHAPADI, KRISHNARAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70973298
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Filtering mapped datasets
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, a method includes determining an external quality metric for cohort data by comparing the cohort data with externally available data for persons who are members of the cohort; determining a confidence metric for the cohort data according to a variability between the cohort data and ground truth data; determining a member accuracy metric by requesting evaluation of the cohort data by members of the online social networking service; normalizing each of the metrics to a predetermined numerical range; retrieving a weight for each of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric; filtering the cohort data according to a convex combination of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric with their respective weights; and suppressing display of the cohort data in response to the filtered information for the cohort indicating that the convex combination traverses a threshold value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the system to: determine an external quality metric for cohort data for a cohort by comparing the cohort data with external data for persons who are members of the cohort, the cohort data being for a defined group of like members of an online social networking service, the external data stored on an external database; determine a confidence metric for the cohort data according to a variability between the cohort data and ground truth data stored in an internal database of the online social networking service representing the members that are members of the cohort; determine a member accuracy metric by requesting evaluation of the cohort data by members of the online social networking service; normalize each of the metrics to a predetermined numerical range; retrieve a weight for each of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric; filter the cohort data according to a quality metric generated by a convex combination of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric with their respective weights and store the filtered cohort data and the metrics in the internal database; display the cohort data in response to the quality metric being greater than a threshold value; and suppress displaying the cohort data in response to the quality metric being less than the threshold value.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the system to further: generate a targeted communication to respective computing devices of one or more members of the online social networking service; electronically collect responses to the targeted communication, the responses including a value indicating a salary for each member that responded; and map the responses to the cohort by updating a record in a database of members, the record identifying the cohort for a respective member.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to provide an electronic user interface for retrieving the weights from an administrator of the online social networking service.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to map respective members of the online social networking service to the cohort according to the respective member's title, location, and employer.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to display a generic chart in response to the convex combination not traversing the threshold value.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the convex combination is computed by multiplying each metric by its associated weight resulting in a set of products, summing each product in the set of products resulting in a summation, and dividing the summation by the sum of the weights for the metrics.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to employ a machine learning system to learn the weights for each of the metrics to increase accuracy of the convex combination.
8. A computerized method, executed by a processor coupled to a memory, the method comprising: determining an external quality metric for cohort data by comparing the cohort data with external data for persons who are members of a cohort, the cohort data being for a defined group of like members of an online social networking service, the external data stored on an external database; determining a confidence metric for the cohort data according to a variability between the cohort data and ground truth data stored in an internal database of the online social networking service representing the members that are members of the cohort; determining a member accuracy metric by requesting evaluation of the cohort data by members of the online social networking service; normalizing each of the metrics to a predetermined numerical range; retrieving a weight for each of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric; filtering the cohort data according to a quality metric generated by a convex combination of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric with their respective weights, and store the filtered cohort data and the metrics in the internal database; display the cohort data in response to the quality metric being greater than a threshold value; and suppressing displaying the cohort data in response to the quality metric being less than the threshold value.
9. The computerized method of claim 8, further comprising: generating a targeted communication to respective computing devices of one or more members of the online social networking service; electronically collecting the responses to the targeted communication, the responses including a value indicating a salary for each member that responded; and mapping the responses to the cohort by updating a record in a database of members, the record identifying the cohort for a respective member.
10. The computerized method of claim 8, further comprising providing an electronic user interface for retrieving the weights from an administrator of the online social networking service.
11. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein members are mapped to the cohort according to the respective member's title, location, and employer.
12. The computerized method of claim 8, further comprising generating a generic chart representing the cohort data in response to the convex combination not traversing the threshold value.
13. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the convex combination is computed by multiplying each metric by its associated weight resulting in a set of products, summing each product in the set of products resulting in a summation, and dividing the summation by the sum of the weights for the metrics.
14. The computerized method of claim 8, further comprising employing a machine learning system to learn the weights for each of the metrics to increase accuracy of the convex combination.
15. A machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: determining an external quality metric for cohort data by comparing the cohort data with external data for persons who are members of a cohort, the cohort data being for a defined group of like members of an online social networking service, the external data stored on an external database; determining a confidence metric for the cohort data according to a variability between the cohort data and ground truth data stored in an internal database of the online social networking service representing the members that are members of the cohort determining a member accuracy metric by requesting evaluation of the cohort data by members of the online social networking service; normalizing each of the metrics to a predetermined numerical range; retrieving a weight for each of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric; filtering the cohort data according to a quality metric generated by a convex combination of the external quality metric, the confidence metric, and the member accuracy metric with their respective weights and store the filtered cohort data and the metrics in the internal database; displaying the cohort data in response to the quality metric being greater than a threshold value; and suppressing displaying the cohort data in response to the quality metric being less than the threshold value.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause processor to: generate a targeted communication to respective computing devices of one or more members of the online social networking service; electronically collect the responses to the targeted communication, the responses including a value indicating a salary for each member that responded; and map the responses to the cohort by updating a record in a database of members, the record identifying the cohort for a respective member.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause processor to provide an electronic user interface for retrieving the weights from an administrator of the online social networking service.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to generate a generic chart representing the cohort data in response to the convex combination not traversing the threshold value.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the convex combination is computed by multiplying each metric by its associated weight resulting in a set of products, summing each product in the set of products resulting in a summation, and dividing the summation by the sum of the weights for the metrics.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to employ a machine learning system to learn the weights for each of the metrics to increase accuracy of the convex combination.
</claims>
</document>
