<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F21/62,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/911,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MX TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CALDWELL, JOHN RYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58689992
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting input locations for data aggregation using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
Apparatuses, systems, methods, and computer program products are disclosed for distributed and/or decentralized data aggregation. A method includes determining a user's electronic credentials for a third party service provider. A method includes detecting that access to a third party service provider is unavailable. A method includes processing, using machine learning, a website of a third party service provider to determine a prediction of an input location for a user's electronic credentials. A method includes accessing a third party service provider using a predicted input location for a user's electronic credentials to download data associated with the user from the third party service provider.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining a user's electronic credentials for a third party service provider; detecting that access to the third party service provider is unavailable; processing, using machine learning, a website of the third party service provider to determine a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials; and accessing the third party service provider using the predicted input location for the user's electronic credentials to download data associated with the user from the third party service provider.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider, using the machine learning, to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the machine learning processes one or more images of the one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials using image recognition.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: parsing the one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider for information for the one or more web pages; and processing, using the machine learning, the parsed information for the one or more web pages to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials based on historical changes to one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials based on input from other users accessing one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising accessing one or more other locations of the third party service provider, with one or more artificially introduced delays between accessing the one or more other locations and downloading the data, thereby emulating a use pattern of the user for the third party service provider.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the emulated use pattern is determined based on one or more of an average pattern identified in behavior of multiple other users accessing the third party service provider using a web browser and a pattern identified in behavior of the user accessing the third party service provider using a web browser.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying to a user in an interface the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials on the website of the third party service provider.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the third party service provider is one of a plurality of third party service providers where the user has data, the user's data downloaded and aggregated from each of the plurality of third party service providers using electronic credentials for each of the plurality of third party service providers.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating and managing one or more different, secure, electronic credentials for the user for the third party service provider; and securely storing the generated one or more different, secure, electronic credentials for the user on a hardware device associated with the user.
12. An apparatus, comprising: means for determining a user's electronic credentials for a third party service provider; means for detecting that access to the third party service provider is unavailable; means for processing, using machine learning, a website of the third party service provider to determine a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials; and means for accessing the third party service provider using the predicted input location for the user's electronic credentials to download data associated with the user from the third party service provider.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising means for processing one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider, using the machine learning, to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the machine learning processes one or more images of the one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: means for parsing the one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider for information for the one or more web pages; and means for processing, using the machine learning, the parsed information for the one or more web pages to determine the prediction of the input location for the user's electronic credentials.
16. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising means for determining a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials based on historical changes to one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising means for determining a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials based on input from other users accessing one or more web pages of the website of the third party service provider.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, further comprising means for accessing one or more other locations of the third party service provider, with one or more artificially introduced delays between accessing the one or more other locations and downloading the data, thereby emulating a use pattern of the user for the third party service provider.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the emulated use pattern is determined based on one or more of an average pattern identified in behavior of multiple other users accessing the third party service provider using a web browser and a pattern identified in behavior of the user accessing the third party service provider using a web browser.
20. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer usable program code executable by a processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining a user's electronic credentials for a third party service provider; detecting that access to the third party service provider is unavailable; processing, using machine learning, a website of the third party service provider to determine a prediction of an input location for the user's electronic credentials; and accessing the third party service provider using the predicted input location for the user's electronic credentials to download data associated with the user from the third party service provider.
</claims>
</document>
