<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/9535,G06F17/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00,H04N21/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAI, CHAOCHAO
PREDOVIC, GORAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62708506
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Interest prediction for unresolved users in an online system
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is an online system that infers interests of unresolved users for whom the interests are not known. The online system determines certain features about the unresolved users, but does not have certain information about the users themselves (e.g., their interests), so instead infers these attributes based on the features of the user. The online system provides the features as input to a classifier trained to predict a particular interest, and the classifier outputs a prediction of whether the user has the corresponding interest. In one embodiment, the online system trains a classifier for various interest values by forming training sets for the interests using the features for users who are logged into the online system and hence have known interests.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method performed by an online system, the method comprising: receiving content items from content providers for display to users of the online system, each content item associated with an audience defining interests of users to whom the content item is to be provided; for each interest of one or more interests: forming a training set of users having the interest in their user profile in the online system, deriving features of the users of the training set, the features indicating which applications the users have installed on client devices of the users, each feature represented by a feature value, and training a classifier to predict the interest for a user by providing the derived features as input to a machine learning algorithm; responsive to detecting an opportunity to provide one of the received content items to an unresolved user who the online system is unable to match to a user profile of the online system, applying one or more of the trained classifiers to predict one or more interests for the unresolved user by: deriving features of the unresolved user, the features indicating which applications the unresolved user has installed on a client device of the unresolved user, each feature represented by a feature value, providing the derived features as input to one of the trained classifiers, and obtaining, as an output from the trained classifier, a prediction of whether the unresolved user has an interest corresponding to the trained classifier, wherein obtaining the prediction comprises: computing averaged feature values by averaging the feature values of the users of the training set, computing a degree of similarity of the averaged feature values of the users of the training set and the feature values of the unresolved user by computing a dot product of the averaged feature values of the users of the training set and the feature values of the unresolved user, and responsive to determining that the degree of similarity is above a threshold value, predicting that the unresolved user has the interest; and based on the predicted interests of the unresolved user, providing for display to the unresolved user a content item having an audience that includes at least one of the predicted interests for the unresolved user.
2. A computer-implemented method performed by an online system, the computer-implemented method comprising: training a classifier using a training set of users having an interest known by the online system, the training set comprising feature values for a first set of features for the users of the training set and the classifier configured to predict an interest of an unresolved user of the online system for whom the online system does not have information about; for the unresolved user, determining feature values for the first set of features for the unresolved user; obtaining, as an output of the trained classifier applied to the feature values for the unresolved user, a prediction of whether the unresolved user has the first interest, wherein obtaining the prediction comprises: computing averaged feature values by averaging feature values for the users of the training set, computing a degree of similarity of the averaged feature values for the users of the training set and the feature values for the unresolved user by computing a dot product of the averaged feature values of the users of the training set and the feature values of the unresolved user, and responsive to determining that the degree of similarity is above a threshold value, predicting that the unresolved user has the interest; and selecting content to provide to the unresolved user based on the prediction.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the classifier is trained using machine learning.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising training the classifier by: identifying, for each user of the training set of users, the first interest in a profile of the user on the online system; training the classifier by providing the feature values for the users of the training set as input to a supervised machine learning algorithm.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the features comprise indications of software applications that are installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the features comprise times of usage of software applications installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the features comprise types of gaming applications installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first interest comprises at least one of an interest in a sport and an interest in a film.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions that when executed by a processor of an online system perform actions comprising: training a classifier using a training set of users having an interest known by the online system, the training set comprising feature values for a first set of features for the users of the training set and the classifier configured to predict an interest of an unresolved user of the online system for whom the online system does not have information about; for the unresolved user, determining feature values for the first set of features for the unresolved user; obtaining, as an output of the trained classifier applied to the feature values for the unresolved user, a prediction of whether the unresolved user has the first interest, wherein obtaining the prediction comprises: computing averaged feature values by averaging feature values for the users of the training set, computing a degree of similarity of the averaged feature values for the users of the training set and the feature values for the unresolved user by computing a dot product of the averaged feature values of the users of the training set and the feature values of the unresolved user, and responsive to determining that the degree of similarity is above a threshold value, predicting that the unresolved user has the interest; and selecting content to provide to the unresolved user based on the prediction.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the classifier is trained using machine learning.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, the actions further comprising training the classifier by: identifying, for each user of the training set of users, the first interest in a profile of the user on the online system; training the classifier by providing the feature values for the users of the training set as input to a supervised machine learning algorithm.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the features comprise indications of software applications that are installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the features comprise times of usage of software applications installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the features comprise types of gaming applications installed on a client device of the unresolved user.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the first interest comprises at least one of an interest in a sport and an interest in a film.
</claims>
</document>
