<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06F3/08,G06K9/00,G06T7/143,G06T7/162,H04N19/17
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG, TINGHUAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59996641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, an apparatus and a computer program product for object detection
</title>

<abstract>
A method, comprising: receiving a video comprising video frames as an input; generating set of object proposals from the video; generating object tracklets comprising regions appearing in consecutive frames of the video, said regions corresponding to object proposals with a predetermined level of confidence; constructing a graph comprising the object proposals and superpixels grouped from the pixels of the frame; calculating a first cost function for superpixel likelihoods in terms of the object proposals in an object tracklet; calculating a second cost function for object proposal likelihoods in terms of the superpixels in the frame; minimizing the first and the second cost function with each other; computing posterior probabilities of each superpixel; and assigning each superpixel with an object class with a maximum posterior probability to constitute semantic object segmentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a video comprising video frames as an input; generating a set of object proposals from the video, wherein the generating of the set of object proposals comprises determining that respective object proposals of the set have at least a predetermined level of confidence; generating object tracklets comprising regions appearing in consecutive one of the video frames of the video, said regions corresponding to the set of object proposals; constructing a graph comprising the set of object proposals and superpixels grouped from pixels of the video frames; calculating a first cost function for superpixel likelihoods in terms of the corresponding object proposals in a respective object tracklet of the generated object tracklets; calculating a second cost function for object proposal likelihoods in terms of the superpixels in the video frames; minimizing the first and the second cost function with each other; computing posterior probabilities of the superpixels; and assigning the superpixels with a respective object class based on a maximum posterior probability of respective posterior probabilities of the computed posterior probabilities to constitute semantic object segmentation.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining, from said graph, links between pairs of nodes of the graph.
3. The method according to claim 2, further comprising calculating a first weight for connections between a respective object proposal of the set of object proposals and its constituent superpixels.
4. The method according to claim 3, further comprising calculating a second weight for connections between spatially or temporally adjacent superpixels.
5. The method according to claim 3, further comprising calculating a third weight for sequential connections between object proposals within same object tracklet.
6. The method according to claim 4, wherein the first weight and the second weight are used as weights in the first cost function.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the first weight and the third weight are used as weights in the second cost function.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the posterior probabilities of the superpixels are computed according to Bayes rule.
9. An apparatus comprising at least one processor, non-transitory memory including computer program code, the memory and the computer program code configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: receive a video comprising video frames as an input; generate a set of object proposals from the video, wherein generating the set of object proposals comprises determining that respective object proposals of the set have at least a predetermined level of confidence; generate object tracklets comprising regions appearing in consecutive ones of the video frames of the video, said regions corresponding to the set of object proposals; construct a graph comprising the set of object proposals and superpixels grouped from pixels of the video frames; calculate a first cost function for superpixel likelihoods in terms of corresponding object proposals in a respective object tracklet of the generated object tracklets; calculate a second cost function for object proposal likelihoods in terms of the superpixels in the video frames; minimize the first and the second cost function with each other; compute posterior probabilities of the superpixels; and assign the superpixels with a respective object class based on a maximum posterior probability of respective posterior probabilities of the computed posterior probabilities to constitute semantic object segmentation.
10. The apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising computer program code configured to cause the apparatus to determine, from said graph, links between pairs of nodes of the graph.
11. The apparatus according to claim 10, further comprising computer program code configured to cause the apparatus to calculate a first weight for connections between a respective object proposal of the set of object proposals and its constituent superpixels.
12. The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising computer program code configured to cause the apparatus to calculate a second weight for connections between spatially or temporally adjacent superpixels.
13. The apparatus according to claim 11, further comprising computer program code configured to cause the apparatus to calculate a third weight for sequential connections between object proposals within same object tracklet.
14. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the first weight and the second weight are used as weights in the first cost function.
15. The apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the first weight and the third weight are used as weights in the second cost function.
16. The apparatus according to claim 9, further comprising computer program code configured to cause the apparatus to compute the posterior probabilities of the superpixels according to Bayes rule.
17. A computer program product embodied on a non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising computer program code configured to, when executed on at least one processor, cause an apparatus to: receive a video comprising video frames as an input; generate a set of object proposals from the video, wherein generating the set of object proposals comprises determining that respective object proposals of the set have at least a predetermined level of confidence; generate object tracklets comprising regions appearing in consecutive ones of the video frames of the video, said regions corresponding to the set of object proposals; construct a graph comprising the set of object proposals and superpixels grouped from pixels of the video frames; calculate a first cost function for superpixel likelihoods in terms of corresponding object proposals in a respective object tracklet of the generated object tracklets; calculate a second cost function for object proposal likelihoods in terms of the superpixels in the video frames; minimize the first and the second cost function with each other; compute posterior probabilities of the superpixels; and assign the superpixels with a respective object class based on a maximum posterior probability of respective posterior probabilities of the computed posterior probabilities to constitute semantic object segmentation.
18. The computer program product according to claim 17, wherein the apparatus is further caused to determine, from said graph, links between pairs of nodes of the graph.
19. The computer program product according to claim 18, wherein the apparatus is further caused to calculate a first weight for connections between a respective object proposal of the set of object proposals and its constituent superpixels.
20. The computer program product according to claim 18, wherein the apparatus is further caused to calculate a second weight for connections between spatially or temporally adjacent superpixels.
</claims>
</document>
