<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61L2/00,A61L2/08,A61M25/00,A61N5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLEN, JAMES P
BARNECK, MITCHELL D.
RHODES, NATHANIEL L. R.
LONG, CURTIS D.
LIGHT LINE MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, JAMES P
BARNECK, MITCHELL D.
RHODES, NATHANIEL L. R.
LONG, CURTIS D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65897504
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus to deliver therapeutic, non-ultraviolet electromagnetic radiation to inactivate infectious agents and/or to enhance healthy cell growth via a catheter residing in a body cavity
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus provide therapeutic electromagnetic radiation (EMR) for inactivating infectious agents in, on or around a catheter residing in a patient's body cavity and/or for enhancing healthy cell growth. The method comprises transmitting non-ultraviolet therapeutic EMR substantially axially along an optical element in a lumen of the catheter body and/or the catheter body. Through delivery of the therapeutic EMR to particular infected areas and/or areas requiring tissue healing. The methods and apparatus of the present disclosure inactivate the major sources of infection in, on, and around catheters and/or enhance healthy cell growth around catheters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical device assembly for removable insertion retrofittably into an indwelling catheter disposed within a cavity of a patient's body and for delivery of a fluid to and/or retrieval of fluid from the patient's body, the indwelling catheter having an elongate catheter body with at least one internal lumen, a coupling end and a distal end, the distal end being insertable into the cavity of the patient's body, the medical device assembly comprising: an electromagnetic radiation (EMR) source for providing non-ultraviolet, sterilizing EMR having an intensity comprising a radiant exposure of at least 0.5 kJ/cm2 and up to 1.0 kJ/cm2 and power of at least 0.005 mW and up to 1 Watt, such intensity being sufficient to produce a therapeutic effect of at least one of inactivating one or more infectious agents residing on, within, or external to and around the indwelling catheter, the catheter body directs both the fluid and the sterilizing EMR axially relative to the catheter body, axial flow of the fluid within the catheter body facilitates at least one of delivery of fluid into the patient's body and retrieval of fluid from the patient's body; an optical element comprising a fiber optic having a fiber body with an exterior surface, a coupling end, a distal end, a core, and at least one radial emission portion on the exterior surface disposed between the coupling end of the fiber body and the distal end of the fiber body, the fiber body being conducive to the axial propagation of the sterilizing EMR relative to the catheter body, the optical element being insertable into and removable from at least one internal lumen of the catheter body; and at least one coupling to connect optically the EMR source to the optical element, thereby facilitating the delivery of non-ultraviolet, sterilizing EMR into the cavity of a patient's body.
2. The medical device assembly as in claim 1 wherein the catheter body is configured for access to at least one cavity of the patient's body, such cavity being at least one of a venous, an arterial, a gastrointestinal, an abdominal, a urological, a respiratory, a cranial, and a spinal cavity, and the optical element is removably insertable into the at least one of a venous, an arterial, a gastrointestinal, an abdominal, a urological, a respiratory, a cranial, and a spinal cavity via the at least one internal lumen of the catheter body.
3. The medical device assembly as in claim 1 wherein the indwelling catheter is a dialysis catheter.
4. The medical device assembly as in claim 1 wherein the fiber body comprises at least a portion configured as at least one of a bare fiber body and a cladding-encased fiber body.
5. The medical device assembly as in claim 4 wherein the radial emission portion facilitates the emission of sterilizing EMR radially from the fiber body into the lumen of the indwelling catheter, the emission of sterilizing EMR radially has an oblique emission component.
6. The medical device assembly as in claim 5 wherein the indwelling catheter has at least a portion that allows the sterilizing EMR radially emitted from the fiber body to pass through the indwelling catheter into one or more infectious agents exterior to the indwelling catheter for inactivation of the infectious agents located in at least one of on the indwelling catheter, on tissue within the patient's body surrounding the indwelling catheter, and within tissue of the patient's body surrounding the indwelling catheter.
7. The medical device assembly as in claim 5 wherein at least one radial emission portion directs sterilizing EMR of a desired intensity radially through and along the length of each radial emission portion into the internal lumen of the indwelling catheter.
8. The medical device assembly as in claim 7 wherein the radial emission portion comprises an ablated surface, the ablated surface having a gradient ablation, the gradient ablation having a gradient pattern such that the emission of EMR radially from the radial emission portion has a uniform intensity.
9. The medical device assembly as in claim 4 wherein the indwelling catheter has an internal lumen with an inner diameter and the fiber body has an outer diameter, the inner diameter of the internal lumen being greater than the outer diameter of the fiber body, thereby defining a void within the internal lumen external to the exterior surface of the fiber body.
10. The medical device assembly as in claim 9 wherein the void facilitates the passage of fluid through the void by at least one of delivery of fluid to and retrieval of fluid from the patient's body simultaneously with at least a portion of the fiber body being disposed within the internal lumen.
11. The medical device assembly as in claim 10 wherein fluid is present within the void within the internal lumen when sterilizing EMR is delivered to and radially emitted from the optical element while the optical element is disposed within the internal lumen.
12. The medical device assembly as in claim 1 wherein the sterilizing EMR has a wavelength that ranges from about 380 nm to about 904 nm.
13. The medical device assembly as in claim 1 wherein the indwelling catheter is selected from a group consisting of a central venous catheter, a peripheral insertion catheter, a peripheral insertion central catheter, a midline catheter, a jugular catheter, a subclavian catheter, a femoral catheter, a cardiac catheter, a cardiovascular catheter, a urinary catheter, an intermittent urinary catheter, an endotracheal tube, a hemodialysis catheter, a peritoneal dialysis catheter, a gastrointestinal catheter, a nasogastric tube, and a wound drainage catheter.
14. A medical device assembly for insertion into a cavity of a patient's body and for delivery of fluid to and/or retrieval of fluid from the patient's body, comprising: an electromagnetic radiation (EMR) source selected from a group consisting of a solid state laser, a semiconductor laser, a diode laser, and a light emitting diode, the EMR source for providing non-ultraviolet, sterilizing EMR having a wavelength in a range of above 380 nm to 904 nm and having an intensity comprising a radiant exposure of at least 0.5 kJ/cm2 and up to 1.0 kJ/cm2 and power of at least 0.005 mW and up to 1.0 Watt, such intensity being sufficient to inactivate one or more infectious agents; a catheter having an elongate catheter body with at least one internal lumen, a coupling end and a distal end, the distal end being insertable into the cavity of the patient's body, wherein the catheter body directs both the fluid and the sterilizing EMR axially relative to the catheter body for at least one of delivery of fluid into the patient's body and retrieval of fluid from the patient's body; an optical element conducive to the axial propagation of the therapeutic EMR relative to the catheter body, the optical element having a position with respect to the catheter body of being within at least one internal lumen of the catheter body; and at least one coupling to connect the radiation source to the catheter body.
15. The medical device assembly as in claim 14 wherein the wavelength of the sterilizing EMR is selected from a group of wavelengths consisting of wavelengths centered about 400 nm, 405 nm, 415 nm, 430 nm, 440 nm, 445 nm, 455 nm, 470 nm, 475 nm.
16. The medical device assembly as in claim 15 wherein the sterilizing EMR comprises one or more of the selected wavelengths being emitted in a treatment pattern selected from a group of treatment patterns consisting of alternatively, alternatingly, simultaneously, and any combination thereof.
17. The medical device assembly as in claim 14 wherein the catheter is selected from a group consisting of a central venous catheter, a peripheral insertion catheter, a peripheral insertion central catheter, a midline catheter, a jugular catheter, a subclavian catheter, a femoral catheter, a cardiac catheter, a cardiovascular catheter, a urinary catheter, an intermittent urinary catheter, an endotracheal tube, a hemodialysis catheter, a peritoneal dialysis catheter, a gastrointestinal catheter, a nasogastric tube, and a wound drainage catheter.
18. A medical device assembly for insertion into a patient's urinary tract and for delivery of fluid to and/or retrieval of fluid from the patient's body, comprising: an electromagnetic radiation (EMR) source for providing non-ultraviolet, sterilizing EMR having a wavelength in a range of above 380 nm to 808 nm and having an intensity comprising a radiant exposure of at least 0.5 kJ/cm2 and up to 1.0 kJ/cm2 and power of at least 0.005 mW and up to 1.0 Watt, such intensity being sufficient to inactivate one or more infectious agents; a urinary catheter having an elongate catheter body with at least one internal lumen, a coupling end and a distal end, the distal end being insertable into the urinary tract of the patient's body, wherein the catheter body directs both the fluid and the sterilizing EMR axially relative to the catheter body for at least one of delivery of fluid into the patient's body and retrieval of fluid from the patient's body; an optical element comprising a fiber optic having a fiber body with an exterior surface, a coupling end, a distal end, a core, and at least one radial emission portion on the exterior surface disposed between the coupling end of the fiber body and the distal end of the fiber body, the fiber body being conducive to the axial propagation of the sterilizing EMR relative to the catheter body, the optical element having a position with respect to the catheter body of being within at least one internal lumen of the catheter body, the radial emission portion allowing the emission of sterilizing EMR radially from the fiber body into the lumen of the catheter; and at least one coupling to connect the EMR source to the fiber optic.
19. The medical device assembly as in claim 18 wherein the urinary catheter has at least a portion of at least translucency allowing the sterilizing EMR radially emitted from the fiber body to pass through the catheter into one or more infectious agents exterior to the catheter for inactivation of the infectious agents located in at least one of on the urinary catheter, on tissue within the patient's body surrounding the urinary catheter, and within tissue of the patient's body surrounding the urinary catheter.
</claims>
</document>
