<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LU; HAW-MINN
SEIBERT, TAI
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU; HAW-MINN
SEIBERT, TAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783584
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Connection-based network behavioral anomaly detection system and method
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments of the present disclosure provide a system and method for detecting network connections having a plurality of interconnected network nodes; a connection-based behavioral anomaly detection device ("CBAD") connected to one of the plurality of network nodes such that the CBAD may observe data traffic flowing through at least one node of the plurality of network nodes; an application loaded onto a first node of the plurality of network nodes, the application initializing a connection from the first node to a second node of the plurality of network nodes; and a computer-readable storage device communicatively connected to the CBAD; wherein the application transmits a plurality of data packets from the first node to the second node of the plurality of network nodes; the CBAD observes at least one of the plurality of data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node; the CBAD extrapolates packet information from at least one of the plurality of data packets observed; and the extrapolated packet information is stored on the storage device. The present disclosure also provides a method and system for detecting connections within a network including observing a plurality of data packets transferred from an application loaded onto a first node to a second node of the plurality of interconnected network nodes; extrapolating packet information; and comparing the extrapolated data packets against historical data; wherein the CBAD is connected to at least one of the nodes; and the application initialized a connection with the second node.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for detecting network connections, deployable on a network, comprising: a plurality of interconnected network nodes; a connection-based behavioral anomaly detection device ("CBAD") communicatively connected to at least one of the plurality of network nodes such that the CBAD may observe data traffic within at least one node of the plurality of network nodes; an application loaded onto a first node of the plurality of network nodes, the application initializing a connection from the first node to a second node of the plurality of network nodes; a computer-readable storage device communicatively connected to the CBAD; wherein the application transmits a plurality of data packets from the first node to the second node of the plurality of network nodes; the CBAD observes at least one of the plurality of data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node; the CBAD extrapolates packet information from at least one of the plurality of data packets observed; and the extrapolated packet information is stored on the storage device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the CBAD compares the extrapolated packet information against historical data; and wherein the CBAD flags the connection as anomalous if the extrapolated packet information exceeds at least one of a plurality of historical thresholds.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds is dynamically updated based on stored extrapolated packet information.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds is dynamically updated based on the extrinsic information.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the CBAD receives extrinsic information pertaining to the observed data packets from a source other than the first node or the second node; and wherein the comparison between the observed packet information and historical data considers the extrinsic information.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the CBAD sends a notification to one of the plurality of nodes if the connection is flagged as anomalous.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the CBAD compares the extrapolated packet information against at least one predetermined threshold; and wherein the CBAD flags the connection as anomalous if the extrapolated packet information exceeds at least one of the predetermined thresholds.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the extrapolated packet information comprises information pertaining to at least one of the parameters selected from the group consisting of: the packet's source node, the packet's destination node, intermediately connected nodes between the source and destination nodes, the sending application, the duration of the connection between the source and destination nodes, the amount of data transferred between the source and destination nodes, the packet's encryption, the time and date that the connection between the source node and the destination node was initialized, the time and date that the connection between the source node and the destination node was terminated, port number of the packet's source node, port number of the packet's destination node, the communication's protocol, the relative amounts of data sent and received by the packet's source node, and the relative amount sent and received by the packet's destination node.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a third network node of the plurality of network nodes intermediately connected between the first node and second node; wherein the application sends the data packets from the first node to the second node through the third node; and the CBAD observes the data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node on at least one of the first node, the second node, or the third node.
10. A method for detecting connections within a network comprising: initializing a connection from an application loaded on a first network node of a plurality of interconnected network nodes, to a second network node of the plurality of interconnected network nodes; sending, from the application, a plurality of data packets to the second network node; observing, at a connection-based behavioral anomaly detection device ("CBAD") communicatively connected to at least one node of the plurality of interconnected network nodes, packet information from at least one of the plurality of data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node; extrapolating, at the CBAD, packet information from at least one of the plurality of data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node; and storing, on a computer-readable storage device communicatively connected to the CBAD, the extrapolated packet information.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: comparing, at the CBAD, the extrapolated packet information against historical data; and flagging the network connection as anomalous if at least one of a plurality of historical thresholds is exceeded.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising: updating at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds based on the extrapolated packet information.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising: receiving, from a source other than the first node and the second node, extrinsic information relating to at least one of the observed data packets exchanged between the first node and second node; wherein the comparison between the extrapolated packet information against historical data further considers the extrinsic information.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds is further updated based on the extrinsic information.
15. The method of claim 14 further comprising the step of storing, at a computer-readable storage device operatively connected to the CBAD, the extrapolated packet information; wherein the historical information comprises previously extrapolated packet information; and the CBAD flags the connection as anomalous if the extrapolated packet information exceeds at least one of a plurality of historical or predetermined thresholds.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds is dynamically updated based on stored extrapolated packet information.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the CBAD receives extrinsic information pertaining to the observed data packets from a source other than the first node or the second node; and wherein the comparison between the observed packet information and historical data considers the extrinsic information.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the plurality of historical thresholds is dynamically updated based on extrinsic information.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the CBAD sends a notification to one of the plurality of nodes if the connection is flagged as anomalous.
20. The method of claim 10, further comprising: comparing, at the CBAD, the extrapolated packet information against a predetermined threshold; and flagging the network connection as a anomalous if the predetermined threshold is exceeded.
21. The method of claim 20 further comprising: relaying, at a third node of the plurality of network nodes, data packets exchanged between the first node and the second node; wherein the CBAD observes the data packets on at least one of the first node, the second node, or the third node.
22. A method for detecting connections within a network comprising: observing, at a connection-based behavioral anomaly detection device ("CBAD"), a plurality of data packets transferred from an application loaded onto a first node of a plurality of interconnected network nodes to a second node of the plurality of interconnected network nodes; extrapolating packet information from at least one data packet of the plurality of data packets; and comparing the extrapolated data packets against historical data; wherein the CBAD is operatively connected to at least one of the nodes of the plurality of interconnected network node; and the application initialized a connection with the second node.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the extrapolated packet information comprises information pertaining to at least one of the parameters selected from the group consisting of: the packet's source node, the packet's destination node, intermediately connected nodes between the source and destination nodes, the sending application, the duration of the connection between the source and destination nodes, the amount of data transferred between the source and destination nodes, the packet's encryption, the time and date that the connection between the source node and the destination node was initialized, the time and date that the connection between the source node and the destination node was terminated, the port number of the packet's source node, the port number of the packet's destination node, the communication's protocol, the relative amounts of data sent and received by the packet's source node, and the relative amount sent and received by the packet's destination node.
</claims>
</document>
