<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/048,G06F3/0484,G06F40/40,G06K9/00,G06N5/04,G10L15/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MERTZ, RACHEL
CORNICK, CAMERON
GERVER, PAUL
MOKRZYCKI, LAURA J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72043232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive computing to identify key events in a set of data
</title>

<abstract>
A method, apparatus, system, and computer program product for detecting and obscuring references that inadvertently disclose key events according to a user's progress through a media. A computer system ingests data from the media and conceptualizes events from the data. The computer system identifies the key events in the media based on the conceptualized events. The computer system assigns a value to each identified key event. The computer system intakes the data that tracks a progression through the media. The computer system identifies references in related content data that are associated with the key events having values that exceeds a threshold. The computer system obscures the references to the key events displayed in the related content data according to the progression through the media.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting and obscuring references to key events in related content data according to an identified progress through a media, the method comprising: ingesting, by a computer system, data from the media and conceptualizing events from the data; identifying, by the computer system, the key events in the media based on the conceptualized events; determining, by the computer system, a value for each identified key event; intaking, by the computer system, data that tracks a progression through the media; identifying, by the computer system, references in the related content data that are associated with the key events having values that exceeds a threshold; and obscuring, by the computer system, the references displayed in the related content data according to the progression through the media, wherein obscuring the references displayed in the related content data further comprises: obscuring, by the computer system, the references in the related content data by hiding, blurring, or otherwise obscuring a display of the references; and displaying, by the computer system, an interactive warning in conjunction with the references in the related content data, wherein an unobscured view of the references is displayed in response to receiving an interaction with the interactive warning.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the steps of conceptualizing the events and identifying the key events further comprises: applying a number of cognitive tools of an Artificial Intelligence System to the data to conceptualize the events and identify the key events.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the number of cognitive tools comprises: a speech to text tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to transcribe audio data of the media into text; a visual recognition tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to identify contents of an image or video frame of the media; a natural language understanding tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to distill text transcribed by the speech to text tool into fundamental concepts of relevance and to understand what concepts and entities are being discussed; and a tone analyzer and personality insights tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to document emotional, writing, and social tone of the text transcribed by the speech to text tool.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying references to the key events in the related content data associated with the media further comprises: correlating, by the computer system, the related content data to at least one of the conceptualized events; and identifying, by the computer system, the references in the related content data based on the progression through the media.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the value is a first value for the key event, the method further comprising: ingesting, by the computer system, user input data, wherein the user input data includes at least one of a tag or a warning associated with the key events; assigning, by the computer system, a second value to the key events based on the user input data; comparing, by the computer system, the first value against the second value; and adjusting, by the computer system, a quantification algorithm based on a comparison to more accurately identify and quantify the key events.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user input data comprises data having warnings identified from at least one of databases, websites, videos, or images.
7. A computer system comprising: a bus system; a storage device connected to the bus system, wherein the storage device stores program instructions; and a processor connected to the bus system, wherein the processor executes the program instructions: to ingest data from a media and to conceptualize events from the media; to identify key events in the media based on the conceptualized events; to determine a value for each identified key event; to intake data that tracks a progression through the media; to identify references in related content data associated with the key events having values that exceeds a threshold; and to obscure the references displayed in the related content data according to the progression through the media, wherein in obscuring the references displayed in the related content data, the processor further executes the program instructions: to obscure the references in the related content data by hiding, blurring, or otherwise obscuring a display of the references to the key events; and to display an interactive warning in conjunction with the references in the related content data, wherein an unobscured view of the references is displayed in response to receiving a user interaction with the interactive warning.
8. The computer system of claim 7, wherein in conceptualizing the events and identifying the key events, the processor further executes the program instructions: to apply a number of cognitive tools of an Artificial Intelligence System to the data to conceptualize the events and identify the key events.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the number of cognitive tools comprises: a speech to text tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to transcribe audio data of the media into text; a visual recognition tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to identify contents of an image or video frame of the media into text; a natural language understanding tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to distill text transcribed by the speech to text tool into fundamental concepts of relevance and to understand what concepts and entities are being discussed; and a tone analyzer and personality insights tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to document emotional, writing, and social tone of the text transcribed by the speech to text tool.
10. The computer system of claim 7, wherein in identifying the references in the related content data associated with the media, the processor further executes the program instructions: to correlate the related content data to at least one of the conceptualized events; and to identify the references in the related content data based on the progression through the media.
11. The computer system of claim 7, wherein the value is a first value for the key event, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions: to ingest user input data, wherein the user input data includes at least one of a tag or a warning associated with the key events; to assign a second value to the key events based on the user input data; to compare the first value against the second value; and to adjust a quantification algorithm based on a comparison to more accurately identify and quantify the key events.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the user input data comprises data having warnings identified from at least one of databases, websites, videos, or images.
13. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code stored thereon, the program code being executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: ingesting data from a media and conceptualizing events from the media; identifying key events in the media based on the conceptualized events; assigning a value to each identified key event; intaking data that tracks a progression through the media; identifying references in related content data that are associated with the key events having values that exceed a threshold; and obscuring the references displayed in the related content data according to the progression through the media, wherein the step of obscuring the references displayed in the related content data further comprises: obscuring the references in the related content data by hiding, blurring, or otherwise obscuring a display of the references to the key events; and displaying an interactive warning in conjunction with the references in the related content data, wherein an unobscured view of the references is displayed in response to receiving a user interaction with the interactive warning.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the steps of conceptualizing the events and identifying the key events further comprises: applying a number of cognitive tools of an Artificial Intelligence System to the data to conceptualize the events and identify the key events.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the number of cognitive tools comprises: a speech to text tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to transcribe audio data of the media into text; a visual recognition tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to identify contents of an image or video frame of the media into text; a natural language understanding tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to distill text transcribed by the speech to text tool into fundamental concepts of relevance and to understand what concepts and entities are being discussed; and a tone analyzer and personality insights tool that uses machine intelligence of the Artificial Intelligence System to document emotional, writing, and social tone of the text transcribed by the speech to text tool.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the step of identifying the references in the related content data associated with the media further comprises: correlating the related content data to at least one of the conceptualized events; and identifying the references in the related content data based on the progression through the media.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the value is a first value, the method further comprising: ingesting user input data, wherein the user input data includes at least one of a tag or a warning associated with the key events; assigning a second value to the key events based on the user input data; comparing the first values against the second value; and adjusting a quantification algorithm based on a comparison to more accurately identify and quantify the key events.
</claims>
</document>
