<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/801,H04L12/835,H04L12/939
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NXP USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
IORDACHE, FLORINEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63852884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hybrid AQM controller using RBF for queue utilization approximation as a non-linear system
</title>

<abstract>
An adaptive hybrid control method and apparatus are provided for performing active queue management in a data packet routing device which adaptively combines fuzzy controller logic, alone or in combination with RBF-PID control logic, to provide improved management of network congestion by applying a nonlinear model for buffer utilization to at least a buffer size measure for the target buffer to generate at least a fuzzy membership function adjustment signal, and then supplying the fuzzy membership function adjustment signal to a first controller to automatically tune membership function parameters of the first controller, where the first controller calculates a first packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the fuzzy membership function adjustment signal and an error measure between the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size measure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for deriving a packet select probability value for a data packet for performing active queue management to reduce network congestion, comprising: determining a buffer size setpoint for a target buffer of the data packet; applying a nonlinear model for buffer utilization to at least a buffer size value for the target buffer to generate at least an adjustment signal for a fuzzy membership function; and supplying the adjustment signal to a first controller to automatically adjust thresholds for membership function inputs to the first controller, where the first controller calculates a first packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the adjustment signal and an error measure derived from the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size value, wherein the adjustment signal automatically adjusts membership function values in response to the buffer size value and first packet select probability value.
2. The method of claim 1, where applying the nonlinear model for buffer utilization comprises applying a radial basis function to the buffer size value to generate the adjustment signal for adjusting one or more thresholds for membership function inputs based on a predetermined mathematical model for buffer utilization.
3. The method of claim 1, where the first controller is connected to supply the first packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when the error measure meets or exceeds a specified error threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, where the first controller comprises a fuzzy controller.
5. The method of claim 1, where applying the nonlinear model for buffer utilization further comprises generating one or more gain control adjustment signals.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising supplying the one or more gain control adjustment signals to a second controller to automatically tune gain parameters of the second controller, where the second controller calculates a second packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the one or more gain control adjustment signals and the error measure between the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size value.
7. The method of claim 6, where the second controller comprises a proportional-integral-derivative controller.
8. The method of claim 6, where the second controller is connected to supply the second packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when the error measure is below a specified error threshold.
9. A data packet routing device comprising at least one signal processing component arranged to derive a packet select probability value for a data packet, wherein the signal processing component is arranged to: apply a nonlinear model for buffer utilization to at least a buffer size value for a target buffer of the data packet to generate at least an adjustment signal for a fuzzy membership function; calculate an error measure derived from the buffer size value and a buffer size setpoint for the target buffer; and supply the adjustment signal to a first controller to automatically adjust thresholds for membership function inputs to the first controller, where the first controller calculates a first packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the adjustment signal and the error measure, wherein the adjustment signal automatically adjusts membership function values in response to the buffer size value and first packet select probability value.
10. The data packet routing device of claim 9, where the signal processing component applies the nonlinear model for buffer utilization by applying a radial basis function to the buffer size value to generate the adjustment signal for adjusting one or more thresholds for membership function inputs based on a predetermined mathematical model for buffer utilization.
11. The data packet routing device of claim 9, where the first controller comprises a fuzzy controller that is connected to supply the first packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when the error measure meets or exceeds a specified error threshold.
12. The data packet routing device of claim 9, where the signal processing component is further arranged to: generate one or more gain control adjustment signals; and supply the one or more gain control adjustment signals to a second controller to automatically adjust gain parameters of the second controller, where the second controller calculates a second packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the one or more gain control adjustment signals and the error measure between the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size value.
13. The data packet routing device of claim 9, where the second controller comprises a proportional-integral-derivative controller that is connected to supply the second packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when a error measure is below the specified error threshold.
14. A non-transitory computer program product having executable program code stored therein for deriving a packet select probability value for a data packet, the program code operable for: determining a buffer size setpoint for a target buffer of the data packet; applying a nonlinear model for buffer utilization to at least a buffer size value for the target buffer to generate at least an adjustment signal for a fuzzy membership function; and supplying the adjustment signal to a first controller to automatically adjust thresholds for membership function inputs to the first controller, where the first controller calculates a first packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the adjustment signal and an error measure derived from the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size value, wherein the adjustment signal automatically adjusts membership function values in response to the buffer size value and first packet select probability value.
15. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program code is operable to apply the nonlinear model for buffer utilization by applying a radial basis function to the buffer size value to generate the adjustment signal for adjusting one or more thresholds for membership function inputs based on a predetermined mathematical model for buffer utilization.
16. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 14, wherein the first controller comprises a fuzzy controller that is connected to supply the first packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when the error measure meets or exceeds a specified error threshold.
17. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program code is operable for applying the nonlinear model for buffer utilization further comprises generating one or more gain control adjustment signals.
18. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program code is operable for supplying the one or more gain control adjustment signals to a second controller to automatically tune gain parameters of the second controller, where the second controller calculates a second packet select probability value for the data packet based at least partly on the one or more gain control adjustment signals and the error measure between the buffer size setpoint and the buffer size value.
19. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 18, wherein the second controller comprises a proportional-integral-derivative controller.
20. The non-transitory computer program product of claim 18, where the second controller is connected to supply the second packet select probability value to a queue size utilization circuit only when the error measure is below a specified error threshold.
</claims>
</document>
