<document>

<filing_date>
2014-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROKIO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ADAMS, JEFFREY, BRIAN
BUSCHELMAN, KRISTOPHER ROBERT
CARRUTHERS, TIMOTHY J.
EVANS, FRANK G.
GEIGER, KARL P.
KELLEY, MICHAEL P.
SCHNEIDER, ERIC C.
THOMAS, TYSON J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52628867
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Pattern recognition system
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatuses and systems directed to pattern learning, recognition, and metrology. In some particular implementations, the invention provides a flexible pattern recognition platform including pattern recognition engines that can be dynamically adjusted to implement specific pattern recognition configurations for individual pattern recognition applications. In certain implementations, the present invention provides for methods and systems suitable for analyzing and recognizing patterns in biological signals such as multi-electrode array waveform data. In other implementations, the present invention also provides for a partition configuration where knowledge elements can be grouped and pattern recognition operations can be individually configured and arranged to allow for multi-level pattern recognition schemes. In other implementations, the present invention provides methods and systems for dynamic learning of patterns in supervised and unsupervised manners.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A pattern recognition system comprising: one or more memories configured to maintain a knowledge element array; and logic configured to: present a graphical user interface (GUI) in which waveform data are depicted, the waveform data being a digital representation of a waveform; provide a tool accessible via the GUI by which a user may graphically select portions of the waveform data; receive input representing use of the tool in the GUI to graphically select a portion of the waveform data having a pattern of interest; responsive to the input, automatically extract one or more waveform characteristics from the portion of the waveform data; create a pattern definition based on the one or more waveform characteristics; generate one or more knowledge elements based on the pattern definition for inclusion in the knowledge element array, each knowledge element comprising i) one or more operands collectively defining a data vector representing the pattern of interest and ii) a category identifier; define a region of search relative to an occurrence in the waveform data of at least one of the waveform characteristics, each occurrence of the region of search representing a data range within the waveform data in which to search for the pattern of interest; identify a dithered pattern that falls entirely outside the region of search; generate a dithered knowledge element based on the dithered pattern; identify an occurrence of the region of search based on a corresponding occurrence of the at least one of the waveform characteristics; select a portion of the waveform data based on the occurrence of the region of search; generate input vectors from the portion of the waveform data; search for the pattern of interest by performing a pattern recognition operation on the input vectors generated from the portion of the waveform data by comparing the input vectors to the one or more knowledge elements of the knowledge element array, and by comparing the input vectors to the dithered knowledge element, wherein one or more portions of the waveform data are excluded from the pattern recognition operation based on the occurrence of the region of search; identify an occurrence of the pattern of interest based on the pattern recognition operation; and present a representation of the identified occurrence of the pattern of interest in the GUI.
2. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is further configured to define the region of search by: creating a marker definition for a marker, wherein each occurrence of the marker provides a reference for a corresponding occurrence of the region of search.
3. The pattern recognition system of claim 2, wherein the range of waveform data represented by each occurrence of the region of search is defined by two consecutive occurrences of the marker.
4. The pattern recognition system of claim 2, wherein the logic is configured to prevent detection of an occurrence of the marker in a user definable suppression interval.
5. The pattern recognition system of claim 2, wherein the logic is configured to prevent detection of a new occurrence of the marker with reference to a user definable hysteresis threshold.
6. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is configured to perform the pattern recognition operation by determining a match between each of the input vectors and the one or more knowledge elements of the knowledge element array if the input vector falls in any influence fields of the one or more knowledge elements.
7. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is further configured to generate a new knowledge element corresponding to a first input vector, store the new knowledge element in the knowledge element array, and adjust one or more influence fields of other knowledge elements where the first input vector is not recognized by the recognition operation.
8. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is further configured to adjust one or more influence fields of the knowledge elements, where a first input vector does not represent the pattern of interest.
9. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is further configured to obtain one or more measurements from the occurrence of the pattern of interest identified in the pattern recognition operation.
10. The pattern recognition system of claim 9, wherein the logic is further configured to present the obtained measurements in the GUI.
11. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the one or more waveform characteristics comprise one or more of the following: peak amplitude derived from polynomial fit, sample count, pattern mean, median, standard deviation, minimum, maximum, slopes, pattern polynomial fit intercepts with baseline polynomial fit, maximum curvature elbows and widths at various relative amplitudes, QT interval, RR interval, RT interval, field potential duration, T wave peak amplitude, R wave peak amplitude, and total spike amplitude.
12. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the logic is further configured to perform the pattern recognition operation by: initially performing a macro-search that compares macro-search input vectors to a first knowledge element of the one or more knowledge elements and one or more additional knowledge elements of the knowledge element array; and if a first one of the macro-search input vectors matches one of the additional knowledge elements, performing a micro-search that compares micro-search input vectors to only the first knowledge element; wherein the micro-search input vectors are derived from a range of the test data defined with reference to a range from which the first one of the macro-search input vectors is derived, and the micro-search uses a smaller step size than the macro-search.
13. The pattern recognition system of claim 12, wherein the logic is further configured to perform the pattern recognition operation by recognizing the occurrence of the pattern of interest when one of the micro-search input vector falls within an influence field of the one or more knowledge elements.
14. The pattern recognition system of claim 13, wherein the logic is further configured to generate a new knowledge element corresponding to a first one of the micro-search input vectors and adjust one or more influence fields of one or more other knowledge elements where the first micro-search input vector is not recognized by the pattern recognition operation.
15. The pattern recognition system of 14, wherein the logic is further configured to adjust one or more influence fields of one or more of the knowledge elements where a second one of the micro-search input vectors does not represent the pattern of interest.
16. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein the waveform data are derived from a first channel of a multichannel system, and wherein the logic is further configured to: in response to identification of the occurrence of the pattern of interest, process corresponding data associated with a second channel of the multichannel system.
17. The pattern recognition system of claim 16, wherein the logic is further configured for processing data corresponding to different data types.
18. The pattern recognition system of claim 17, wherein the logic is further configured to process data corresponding to data of one or more of the following types: biological, financial, marketing, machine control, industrial control system, software system, economic, epidemiological, audio, sonographic, electro-magnetic, radiographic, radiological, chromatographic, agricultural, astronomic, atmospheric, oceanographic, geologic, and geophysical data.
19. The pattern recognition system of claim 17, wherein the different data types are derived from a plurality of different sensor types.
20. The pattern recognition system of claim 17 wherein the plurality of different data types comprise any of image data, video data, audio data, waveform data, chemical data, text data, temperature data, or biological data.
21. The pattern recognition system of any of claim 16, wherein the logic is configured to process input vectors corresponding to data of one or more of the following: electrocardiogram (ECG), electroencephalogram (EEG), multielectrode array, electromyogram (EMG), mechanomyogram (MMG), muscle tonus, muscle spasimus, electrooculograph (EOG), pressure and volume change (plethysmography), galvanic skin response, magnetoencephalogram (MEG), polymerase chain reaction, gas exchange, nutrient absorption, salt and chemical concentrations inside/outside cells, chemical exchange in media/reagents, ion exchange across ion channels, temperature, blood pressure, hydraulic pressure and water concentration, cell adhesion, cytometry, fluorescent signals, optogenetic signals, radionucleotide marker uptake/decay, functional and structural magnetic resonance imaging, and patterns of signals based on sensing diffusion in media (solid, liquid, gas, and plasma) and across osmotic membranes.
22. The pattern recognition system of claim 1, wherein, prior to performing the pattern recognition operation on the input vectors, the logic is further configured to: create a processing template comprising a processing chain, and apply the processing template by using at least part of the processing chain to process the waveform data to derive each input vector.
23. The pattern recognition system of claim 22, wherein the logic is further configured to store and reuse the processing template.
24. The pattern recognition system of claim 22, wherein the processing template comprises a channel filter for filtering data from one or more channels of multichannel data.
25. The pattern recognition system of claim 22, wherein the processing template comprises a global filter for filtering data from all channels of multichannel data including multielectrode array data.
26. The pattern recognition system of claim 22, wherein the processing template comprises one or more feature extraction processes configured to extract the one or more waveform characteristics from the waveform data.
27. The pattern recognition system of claim 16, wherein the logic is configured to process the corresponding data in the second channel of the multichannel system by taking or reporting metrology measurements associated with the second channel.
28. The pattern recognition system of claim 16, wherein the logic is configured to process the corresponding data in the second channel of the multichannel system by using the occurrence of the pattern of interest as a reference point for detecting a second pattern of interest in the second channel.
29. The pattern recognition system of claim 16, wherein the logic is configured to process the corresponding data in the second channel of the multichannel system by using the occurrence of the pattern of interest to define a marker for waveform data in the second channel.
30. The pattern recognition system of claim 1 wherein the dithered pattern occurs before or after the pattern of interest corresponding to the region of search.
</claims>
</document>
