<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/583,G06F21/31,G06F21/36,G06T11/60,G06T19/00,H04L29/06,H04W12/06,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAIN, CHINTAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64604923
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Visual display systems and method for manipulating images of a real scene using augmented reality
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a visual display system for manipulating images of a real scene using augmented reality. In one implementation, the system may include at least one processor in communication with a first mobile device; and a storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, configure the at least one processor to perform operations. The operations may include receiving a request from a mobile device to access an account of a user, receiving a first image depicting a real scene from an image sensor of the mobile device, receiving a selection of a virtual object, receiving an augmented reality image comprising the virtual object overlaid on the first image, comparing the augmented reality image to one or more stored augmented reality images, authenticating the user based on the comparison, and authorizing access to the user account based on the authentication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A visual display system for manipulating images of a real scene using augmented reality, the system comprising: at least one processor in communication with a first mobile device; and a non-transitory storage medium storing instructions that, when executed, configure the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a request to register a user using augmented reality; receiving a registration image from an image sensor of the first mobile device, the registration image depicting a first real scene; receiving a selection of a first virtual image; receiving an augmented reality registration image comprising the first virtual image overlaid on the registration image; storing the augmented reality registration image in a user account associated with the user; and authorizing access to the user account based on the stored augmented reality registration image.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a request from a second mobile device to access the user account; receiving a first image from an image sensor of the second mobile device, the first image depicting a second real scene; receiving a selection of a second virtual image; receiving an augmented reality image comprising the second virtual image overlaid on the first image; comparing the augmented reality image to one or more stored augmented reality registration images; authenticating the user based on the comparison; and authorizing access to the user account based on the authentication.
3. The system of claim 2, and wherein the operations further comprise: embedding location information into the registration image based on a determined location of the first mobile device.
4. The system of claim 3, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining a location of the second mobile device; comparing the determined location of the second mobile device to the embedded location information of the registration image; retrieving the augmented reality registration image stored in the user account based on the comparison; and transmitting a translucent version of the augmented reality registration image for display on the first mobile device, the translucent version of the image providing guidance for obtaining the first image.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein comparing the augmented reality image comprises: calculating a first comparison metric associated with a comparison of the augmented reality image to one or more augmented reality registration images stored in a database; and matching the augmented reality image to an augmented reality registration image based on the first comparison metric.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein comparing the augmented reality image comprises: calculating a second comparison metric associated with a comparison of the first image with one or more registration images stored in the database; and matching the augmented reality image to the augmented reality registration image based on the first and second comparison metrics.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the first and second comparison metrics comprises metrics generated by a machine learning processor.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the authenticating operation further comprises: determining a confidence score representing a level of confidence that the augmented reality image matches the augmented reality registration image; and authenticating the user when the determined confidence score is above a first threshold.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the authenticating operation further comprises: authenticating the user only when the determined confidence score is at least equal to the first threshold.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the authenticating operation further comprises: performing a verification challenge when the determined confidence score is below the first threshold and above a second threshold.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the verification challenge comprises: transmitting a one-time password to the user via the second mobile device; receiving, from the user of the second mobile device, the one-time password; and authenticating the user when the transmitted and received one-time passwords match.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein: determining the confidence score comprises determining a confidence score based on the first comparison metric; and the first comparison metric comprises a percentage match between the augmented reality image and the augmented reality registration image.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein determining the confidence score comprises determining a confidence score based on a comparison of a factor associated with the augmented reality image and the augmented reality registration image, the factor comprising at least one of: embedded location information, a time stamp, a date stamp, lighting conditions, or image metadata.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: calculating a second comparison metric associated with a comparison of the first image with one or more registration images stored in the database; and determining the confidence score comprises determining a confidence score based on the first comparison metric and the second comparison metric, the second comparison metric comprising a percentage match between the first image and the registration image.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: providing the registration image for display on a display of the first mobile device; receiving a selected position on the displayed registration image; and overlaying the first virtual image onto the selected position.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the displayed registration image includes a grid overlaid on the displayed registration image.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: verifying that the registration image was received from the image sensor of the first mobile device, wherein the verification includes at least one of: detecting a file format of the registration image; detecting usage of the image sensor; detecting movement of the first mobile device; or determining a location of the first mobile device.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein detecting a file format of the registration image comprises detecting that data representing the first image comprises video data and still image data.
19. A computer-implemented method for manipulating images of a real scene using augmented reality, the method comprising: receiving a request to register a user using augmented reality; receiving a registration image from an image sensor of a first mobile device, the registration image depicting a real scene; receiving a selection of a first virtual image; receiving an augmented reality registration image comprising the first virtual image overlaid on the registration image; storing the augmented reality registration image in a user account associated with the user; and authorizing access to the user account based on the stored augmented reality registration image.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to operate a visual display system for manipulating images of a real scene using augmented reality, comprising: receiving a request to register a user using augmented reality; receiving a registration image from an image sensor of a first mobile device, the registration image depicting a real scene; receiving a selection of a first virtual image; receiving an augmented reality registration image comprising the first virtual image overlaid on the registration image; storing the augmented reality registration image in a user account associated with the user; and authorizing access to the user account based on the stored augmented reality registration image.
</claims>
</document>
