<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/46,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAW, VENSON
DOWLATKHAH, SANGAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64658454
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic intelligent analytics VPN instantiation and/or aggregation employing secured access to the cloud network device
</title>

<abstract>
Dynamic intelligent analytics VPN instantiation and/or aggregation facilitating secured access to the cloud network device are provided herein. A system can comprise: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: identifying an application for execution on a user device of user devices connected to first network devices of a first network, wherein the system is part of second devices of a second network communicatively coupled to and remote from the first network; and determining virtual private network attributes for a virtual private network for the user device, wherein the virtual private network attributes are based on the application; and generating a message notification to send to the user device, wherein the message notification comprises the virtual private network attributes to enable the user device to update the virtual private network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: identifying an application for execution on a user equipment of a group of user equipment connected to first network equipment associated with a first network, wherein the system is part of second network equipment, associated with a second network, communicatively coupled to and remote from the first network equipment; determining virtual private network attributes for instantiation and modification of a virtual private network, wherein the virtual private network attributes are determined based on the application and determined based on a first time of day of access of the application by the user equipment; and generating an application-specific message notification to the user equipment, wherein the application-specific message notification comprises the virtual private network attributes for the instantiation and the modification of the virtual private network and causes the user equipment to update the virtual private network, wherein user behavior information for the user equipment comprises the time of day of access of the application by the user equipment, the application for the execution on the user equipment, and a first location of the user equipment within the first network, wherein the virtual private network attributes have been updated to updated virtual private network attributes distinct from the virtual private network attributes, wherein the updated virtual private network attributes were updated based on a second time of day of access of the application by the user equipment and a second location of the user equipment, and wherein the generating is performed multiple times.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, from an analytics application executing on the user equipment, user behavior information indicative of user behavior at the user equipment, and based upon which the analytics application updates the user equipment according to the application-specific message notification, and wherein the receiving is performed prior to the generating.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: validating user behavior information received from the analytics application prior to the determining of the virtual private network attributes.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting the application-specific message notification to an analytics application of the user equipment; and instantiating the virtual private network on the user equipment based on the application-specific message notification.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual private network couples the first network equipment with the second network equipment.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual private network attributes comprise a virtual private network identifier and a virtual private network termination internet protocol address.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the virtual private network attributes comprise a virtual private network identifier and a virtual private network port number.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the application is a first application, wherein the user equipment is a first user equipment, wherein the application-specific message notification is a first application-specific message notification, and wherein the operations further comprise: identifying a second application for execution on a second user equipment of the group of user equipment; determining second virtual private network attributes for a second virtual private network for the second user equipment, wherein the second virtual private network attributes are specific to the second application; and generating a second message notification for the second user equipment, wherein the second message notification comprises the second virtual private network attributes to enable the second user equipment to update a second virtual private network of the second user equipment.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the second application and the first application differ resulting in the second virtual private network attributes being different from the virtual private network attributes.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the second virtual private network attributes for the second user equipment device differ from the virtual private network attributes for the first user equipment.
11. A method, comprising: determining, by an analytics application of a device comprising a processor, user behavior information indicative of user behavior for a user device associated with the analytics application and for which a virtual private network between the user device and network applications enabled via a network is desired; transmitting, by the analytics application, the user behavior information indicative of the user behavior and a request for the virtual private network for the user device; and receiving, by the analytics application, virtual private network attributes for instantiation of the virtual private network requested by the analytics application for the user device, wherein the virtual private network attributes are updated at specified times, specific to the user behavior of the user device and a first group of virtual private network attributes, based on a first time of day at which the user device is to execute a network application of the network applications, wherein a second group of virtual private network attributes is received at a second time of day after the first time, and wherein the second group of virtual private network attributes is based on a second time of day at which the user device is to execute the network application, wherein the user behavior information for the user device comprises the first time of day, the network application for execution on the user device, and a first location of the user device within the network, wherein the virtual private network attributes are updated to updated virtual private network attributes distinct from the virtual private network attributes, and wherein the updated virtual private network attributes were updated based on the second time of day and a second location of the user equipment.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the user behavior information comprises an application identifier identifying the network application for the execution on the user device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the virtual private network attributes comprise a virtual private network identifier and a virtual private network termination internet protocol address for the virtual private network.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the virtual private network attributes comprise a virtual private network identifier and a virtual private network port number for the virtual private network.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining a first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes for instantiation and aggregation of a virtual private network for a user device, wherein the virtual private network is between the user device and network equipment that facilitates enabling execution of an application on the user device, and wherein the first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes for the instantiation and the aggregation of the virtual private network for the user device are determined based on a first location of the user device, and a first quality of service specification for the execution of the application over the virtual private network; validating user behavior information received from an analytics application prior to the determining of the first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes, wherein the validating is performed for a defined subscriber for the user device from a group of subscribers, the group of subscribers comprising a first defined subscriber for the user device and a second defined subscriber for the user device different from the first defined subscriber; and generating a message notification for the user device to establish the virtual private network based on the first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes, wherein the message notification comprises the application-specific virtual private network attributes, wherein the determining and the generating are performed repeatedly to update the first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes to a second group of application-specific virtual private network attributes, wherein the second group of virtual private network attributes is based on a second location of the user device and a second quality of service specification for the execution of the application, wherein the user behavior information comprises a first time of day of access of the application by the user device, the application for the execution on the user device, and the first location of the user device, wherein the virtual private network attributes are updated based on a second time of day of access of the application by the user device and a second location of the user device, resulting in updated virtual private network attributes distinct from the virtual private network attributes, and wherein the generating is performed multiple times.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining is further based on a specified time of day that the virtual private network is to be instantiated.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first group of application-specific virtual private network attributes comprise a virtual private network identifier, a virtual private network termination internet protocol address, and a virtual private network port number.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the determining and the generating are performed the multiple times to update the first set of the application-specific virtual private network attributes to the second set of the application-specific virtual private network attributes based on a first specified time of day that the virtual private network is to be instantiated and a second specified time of day that the virtual private network is to be instantiated.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting the message notification to the analytics application of the user device.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting the application-specific message notification to an analytics application of the user equipment.
</claims>
</document>
