<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/64,G01N21/84,G01N33/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CURADEL
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRANGIONI, JOHN, V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65631002
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of measuring plant nutrient transport using near-infrared imaging
</title>

<abstract>
An imaging system illuminates a portion of a plant with a light source comprising a near-infrared (NIR) light source to cause fluorescent emission by a fluorescent imaging agent absorbed by the plant and distributed within the plant via transpiration. The imaging system receives the fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant. The imaging system generates a fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received fluorescent emission. The imaging system displays, on a display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image. Based on the fluorescent image, a determination that the plant has a disease or injury can be made.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: illuminating, by an imaging system, a portion of a plant with a light source comprising a near-infrared (NIR) light source to cause fluorescent emission by a fluorescent imaging agent absorbed by the plant and distributed within the plant via transpiration; receiving, by the imaging system, the fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; generating, by the imaging system, a fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received fluorescent emission; and displaying, on a display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the plant has a disease or an injury based on the fluorescent image.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the plant has the disease or the injury based on the fluorescent image comprises identifying an obstruction in a nutrient flow of the plant based on the fluorescent image.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the plant has the disease or the injury based on the fluorescent image comprises determining that a percentage of a nutrient flow of the plant is not shown in the fluorescent image.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the plant has the disease or the injury based on the fluorescent image comprises determining a speed of a nutrient flow of the plant based on the fluorescent image.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the plant has the disease or the injury based on the fluorescent image comprises performing a machine learning process to identify the disease or the injury.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluorescent imaging agent comprises IRDye78-CA.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plant absorbs the fluorescent imaging agent via roots of the plant.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plant absorbs the fluorescent imaging agent via stomata of the plant.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: allowing, by the imaging system, only the light source to illuminate the portion of the plant.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein allowing, by the imaging system, only the light source to illuminate the portion of the plant comprises using a hood.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluorescent emission is in a wavelength of 660 nanometers (nm) to 900 nm.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the light source further comprises a visible light source, the method further comprising: illuminating, by the imaging system, the portion of the plant with the light source to cause visible light emission by the portion of the plant simultaneously with the NIR light source; receiving, by the imaging system, the visible light emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; and generating, by the imaging system, a visible light image of the portion of the plant from the received visible light emission.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein displaying, on the display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image comprises superimposing the fluorescent image on the visible light image.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying, on the display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image comprises displaying a video of the portion of the plant.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising providing an interventional treatment to the plant before or after generating the fluorescent image of the portion of the plant.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the fluorescent image is a first fluorescent image, the method further comprising: treating the plant with an insecticide; then, illuminating, by the imaging system, the portion of the plant with the light source comprising the near-infrared (NIR) light source to cause a second fluorescent emission by a second fluorescent imaging agent absorbed by the plant and distributed within the plant via transpiration; receiving, by the imaging system, the second fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; generating, by the imaging system, a second fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received second fluorescent emission; and comparing the first fluor scent, image and the second fluorescent image to thereby evaluate an effectiveness of the insecticide.
18. The method of claim 1, further comprising, before and/or during the illuminating step, supplying a water solution to the plant, wherein the water solution comprises the fluorescent imaging agent and the fluorescent imaging agent is soluble in the water solution.
19. A method of evaluating a plant, comprising: supplying a fluorescent imaging agent to a plant in a nutrient and water-based solution; illuminating, by an imaging system, a portion of the plant with a light source comprising a near-infrared (NIR) light source to cause fluorescent emission by the fluorescent imaging agent absorbed by the plant and distributed within the plant; receiving, by the imaging system, the fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; generating, by the imaging system, a fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received fluorescent emission; and displaying, on a display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein supplying the fluorescent imaging agent to the plant in the nutrient and water-based solution comprises intermittently supplying the fluorescent imaging agent.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein supplying the fluorescent imaging agent to the plant in the nutrient and water-based solution comprises continuously supplying the fluorescent imaging agent.
22. A method, comprising: illuminating, by an imaging system, a portion of a plant with a light source comprising a near-infrared (NIR) light source to cause fluorescent emission by a fluorescent imaging agent absorbed by the plant and distributed within the plant via transpiration; receiving, by the imaging system, the fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; generating, by the imaging system, a fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received fluorescent emission; and displaying, on a display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image, wherein the light source further comprises an additional NIR light source, the method further comprising: illuminating, by the imaging system, the portion of the plant with the additional NIR light source to cause additional fluorescent emission by an additional florescent imaging agent simultaneously with the NIR light source; receiving, by the imaging system, the additional fluorescent emission from the illuminated portion of the plant; and generating, by the imaging system, an additional fluorescent image of the portion of the plant from the received additional fluorescent emission.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein displaying, on the display device of the imaging system, the fluorescent image comprises superimposing the fluorescent image on the additional fluorescent image.
</claims>
</document>
