<document>

<filing_date>
2014-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G09G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GROUPON
</assignee>

<inventors>
Garge, Nikhil Ranjan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73052019
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System, method, and computer program product for calculating an accepted value for a promotion
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are method, apparatus, and computer program products for facilitating the determination of an ideal discount rate or an ideal accepted value for a promotion based on a plurality of model-based decision trees. The decision trees may be generated based on a set of original data, which may include information from a set of past promotions. The trees may branch into smaller, more homogenous subgroups of the original data until a model is generated for each resulting node of the tree. The plurality of trees may be applied to a current promotion with a set of possible predetermined discount rates in order to determine an ideal discount rate or an ideal accepted value for the promotion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a promotion to be offered by a promotion and marketing service via a promotion and marketing system, the method comprising: receiving, via a provider interface on a provider device of the promotion and marketing system, promotion information about the promotion, wherein the promotion information includes a plurality of promotion variables including at least a promotional value; receiving, at the provider device from the promotion and marketing service, a plurality of model-based decision trees; calculating, via a processor, for each of the plurality of model-based decision trees, a demand value for the promotion for each of at least one predetermined discount rate by applying the promotion variables with each predetermined discount rate to each decision tree, wherein each decision tree comprises a plurality of decision points connected by a plurality of branches and ending at a plurality of leaves, the decision points being conditional filters that indicate one of the plurality of possible branches based on a value of at least one predictor variable, and wherein each leaf defines a statistical model; aggregating the demand values for each discount rate for each decision tree for the promotion variables to produce an aggregated price elasticity of demand; and presenting a discount recommendation to a provider via the provider interface based on the aggregated price elasticity of demand; applying the discount recommendation to the promotional value to generate the promotion based on approval of the discount recommendation; and transmitting the promotion to a consumer device via the promotion and marketing system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of decision trees are generated from an original data set including a plurality of deal data, the deal data including a demand data, a price data, and data corresponding to a plurality of predictor variables; wherein each decision tree is generated using a subset of the original data set, wherein each leaf is a linear model made by performing a linear regression of demand data compared to price data of a remaining subset of data corresponding to a terminal branch.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein applying the promotion variables with each predetermined discount rate to each tree comprises: determining, via a plurality of decision points, a resultant leaf for the promotion variables at each discount rate; and calculating the demand value for the promotion for each predetermined discount rate with the linear model of the respective resultant leaf.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the original data set is divided into a training set and a test set, wherein the training set is used to generate one of the plurality decision trees and the test set is used to evaluate an overall model of the one of the plurality of decision trees.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the overall model is evaluated using R2 metric for a predicted demand value of each deal data in the test set.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the original data is received from previous promotions.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated randomly for each decision tree.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated using random sampling with replacement.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated using random sampling without replacement.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein each decision point is generated by dividing a first remaining subset of the original data at the predictor variable having a highest parameter instability to form a plurality of second remaining subsets.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein each decision tree is generated by recursively generating decision points from each remaining subset until a stopping point is reached for each branch.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the stopping point is reached when the second remaining subsets have less than or equal to a minimum number of deal data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each decision point is generated by selecting a random subset of a first remaining subset and dividing the first remaining subset of the original data at the predictor variable from the random subset having a highest parameter instability to form a plurality of second remaining subsets.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein each decision tree is generated by recursively generating decision points from each remaining subset until a stopping point is reached for each branch.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the stopping point is reached when the second remaining subsets have less than or equal to a minimum number of deal data.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the discount recommendation is presented as a graphical representation of the demand for the promotion at each of the at least one predetermined discount rate.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the discount recommendation is presented as an ideal discount rate.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one predetermined discount rate comprises at least one of 10%, 30%, 50%, and 70% discount rates.
19. A promotion and marketing system comprising at least a processor, and a memory associated with the processor having computer coded instructions therein, with the computer instructions configured to, when executed by the processor, cause the system to: receive, via a provider interface on a provider device of the promotion and marketing system, promotion information about a promotion, wherein the promotion information includes a plurality of promotion variables including at least a promotional value; receive, at the provider device from the promotion and marketing service, a plurality of model-based decision trees; calculate for each of the plurality of model-based decision trees, a demand value for the promotion for each of at least one predetermined discount rate by applying the promotion variables with each predetermined discount rate to each decision tree, wherein each decision tree comprises a plurality of decision points connected by a plurality of branches and ending at a plurality of leaves, the decision points being conditional filters that indicate one of the plurality of possible branches based on a value of at least one predictor variable, and wherein each leaf defines a statistical model; aggregate the demand values for each discount rate for each decision tree for the promotion variables to produce an aggregated price elasticity of demand; present a discount recommendation to a provider via the provider interface based on the aggregated price elasticity of demand; apply the discount recommendation to the promotional value to generate the promotion based on approval of the discount recommendation; and transmit the promotion to a consumer device with the promotion and marketing system.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the plurality of decision trees are generated from an original data set including a plurality of deal data, the deal data including a demand data, a price data, and data corresponding to a plurality of predictor variables; wherein each decision tree is generated using a subset of the original data set, wherein each leaf is a linear model made by performing a linear regression of demand data compared to price data of a remaining subset of data corresponding to a terminal branch.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein applying the promotion variables with each predetermined discount rate to each tree comprises: determining, via a plurality of decision points, a resultant leaf for the promotion variables at each discount rate; and calculating the demand value for the promotion for each predetermined discount rate with the linear model of the respective resultant leaf.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the original data set is divided into a training set and a test set, wherein the training set is used to generate one of the plurality decision trees and the test set is used to evaluate an overall model of the one of the plurality of decision trees.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the overall model is evaluated using R2 metric for a predicted demand value of each deal data in the test set.
24. The system of claim 20, wherein the original data is received from previous promotions.
25. The system of claim 20, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated randomly for each decision tree.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated using random sampling with replacement.
27. The system of claim 25, wherein the subset of the original data set is generated using random sampling without replacement.
28. The system of claim 20, wherein each decision point is generated by dividing a first remaining subset of the original data at the predictor variable having a highest parameter instability to form a plurality of second remaining subsets.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein each decision tree is generated by recursively generating decision points from each remaining subset until a stopping point is reached for each branch.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the stopping point is reached when the second remaining subsets have less than or equal to a minimum number of deal data.
31. The system of claim 30, wherein each decision point is generated by selecting a random subset of a first remaining subset and dividing the first remaining subset of the original data at the predictor variable from the random subset having a highest parameter instability to form a plurality of second remaining subsets.
32. The system of claim 31, wherein each decision tree is generated by recursively generating decision points from each remaining subset until a stopping point is reached for each branch.
33. The system of claim 32, wherein the stopping point is reached when the second remaining subsets have less than or equal to a minimum number of deal data.
34. The system of claim 19, wherein the discount recommendation is presented as a graphical representation of the demand for the promotion at each of the at least one predetermined discount rate.
35. The system of claim 19, wherein the discount recommendation is presented as an ideal discount rate.
36. The system of claim 19, wherein the at least one predetermined discount rate comprises at least one of 10%, 30%, 50%, and 70% discount rates.
</claims>
</document>
