<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SERVICENOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIRAN, NOAM
ROSH, HAVIV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61711680
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Change to availability mapping
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented network diagnostics system includes a system management module, coupled to a communications network and a network accessible storage via a network interface of the system management module. The system management module is configured to direct a server to display a plurality of respective status indicators for a plurality of client resources of the communications network, identify one or more client resources of the plurality of client resources experiencing a functional impairment, apply an impact analysis framework to determine the functional impairment experienced by the one or more client resources of the plurality of client resources is causally related to a maintenance operation, and direct the server to update the respective status indicators associated with the one or more client resources of the plurality of client resources whose functional impairment is causally related to the maintenance operation to reflect that the respective client resource is undergoing maintenance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; a non-transitory memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: generate a graphical user interface for display, wherein the graphical user interface comprises a plurality of status indicators corresponding to a plurality of respective nodes of a computing network, wherein the plurality of respective nodes corresponds to a plurality of respective configuration items (CIs) in a configuration management database, wherein each of the plurality of CIs corresponds to a hardware or software resource communicatively coupled to the computing network, and wherein each status indicator of the plurality of status indicators represents a functional state of a corresponding respective node of the plurality of nodes; identify a first node of the plurality of respective nodes as experiencing a functional impairment; determine that the functional impairment experienced by the first node is causally related to a second node experiencing a problem requiring maintenance; and update the graphical user interface such that a first status indicator of the plurality of status indicators associated with the first node reflects that the first node is experiencing a functional impairment that does not require maintenance on the first node.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the problem requiring maintenance is defined for one or more specific CIs of the plurality of CIs.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the graphical user interface comprises a service model that includes a plurality of dependency relationships between the plurality of CIs.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to receive a notification of a planned maintenance operation and to determine that the second node is undergoing the planned maintenance operation.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to update a second status indicator of the plurality of status indicators associated with the second node to reflect that the second node is undergoing the planned maintenance operation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the graphical user interface comprises: a definition of the problem requiring maintenance; an identification of specific nodes of the plurality of respective nodes of the computing network associated with the problem requiring maintenance; and a specification of a maintenance time period applicable to the problem requiring maintenance.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of respective nodes comprises services provided by the hardware or software resource communicatively coupled to the computing network.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein each status indicator of the plurality of status indicators comprises predefined color coding of the first node.
9. A method, comprising: generating a graphical user interface to display a plurality of status indicators corresponding to a plurality of respective nodes of a computing network, wherein the plurality of respective nodes corresponds to a plurality of respective configuration items (CIs) in a configuration management database, wherein each of the plurality of CIs corresponds to a hardware or software resource communicatively coupled to the computing network, and wherein each status indicator of the plurality of status indicators represents a functional state of a corresponding respective node; receiving, from a client computer coupled to the computing network, a notification of a planned maintenance operation; identifying a first set of one or more nodes of the plurality of respective nodes as experiencing a first functional impairment and a second set of one or more nodes of the plurality of respective nodes as experiencing a second functional impairment; determining the first functional impairment experienced by the first set of one or more nodes is causally related to the planned maintenance operation and the second functional impairment experienced by the second set of one or more nodes is not causally related to the planned maintenance operation; and updating the graphical user interface such that a first set of status indicators of the plurality of status indicators associated with the first set of one or more nodes reflects that the first set of one or more nodes is undergoing maintenance and a second set of status indicators of the plurality of status indicators associated with the second set of one or more nodes reflects that the second set of one or more nodes requires maintenance.
10. The method of claim 9, comprising transmitting the updated graphical user interface to the client computer for display.
11. The method of claim 9, comprising: storing data representing the planned maintenance operation and the functional impairment experienced by the first set of one or more nodes in response to determining the functional impairment experienced by the first set of one or more nodes is causally related to the planned maintenance operation; receiving advance notification of a new planned maintenance operation defined for a specific node of the plurality of respective nodes; predicting a future impairment to occur as a consequence of the new planned maintenance operation based on the data; and generating an additional notification of the new planned maintenance operation.
12. The method of claim 9, comprising: identifying an additional node of the plurality of respective nodes, wherein the additional node is dependent on at least one of the first set of one or more nodes; and updating the graphical user interface such that an additional status indicator of the plurality of status indicators associated with the additional node of the plurality of respective nodes reflects that the additional node depends on at least one of the first set of one or more nodes whose functional impairment is causally related to the planned maintenance operation.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the graphical user interface comprises a service model that includes a plurality of dependency relationships between a subset of nodes of the plurality of respective nodes.
14. The method of claim 9, comprising: identifying a third set of one or more nodes of the plurality of respective nodes from which the first set of one or more nodes depends; and updating the graphical user interface such that a third set of status indicators of the plurality of status indicators associated with the third set of one or more nodes reflects that the third set of one or more nodes is undergoing the planned maintenance operation.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein updating the graphical user interface comprises altering a color, a border, or both, of the first set of one or more nodes.
16. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium having machine-readable instructions stored thereon, wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: generate a graphical user interface for display, wherein the graphical user interface comprises a plurality of status indicators corresponding to a plurality of respective nodes of a computing network, wherein each of the plurality of respective nodes corresponds to a hardware or software resource communicatively coupled to the computing network and services provided by the hardware or software resource, wherein each status indicator of the plurality of status indicators represents a functional state of a corresponding respective node; identify a first node of the plurality of respective nodes as experiencing a functional impairment; apply an impact analysis framework to determine that the functional impairment experienced by the first node is causally related to a second node that requires maintenance; and update the graphical user interface such that a first status indicator of the plurality of status indicators associated with the first node reflects that the first node does not require maintenance.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to update the graphical user interface such that a second status indicator of the plurality of status indicators associated with the second node reflects that the second node requires maintenance.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive advance notification of a planned maintenance operation; and predict a future impairment on the first node, the second node, or both, as a consequence of the planned maintenance operation.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein predicting the future impairment is based on a record of a causal relationship between the functional impairment and the planned maintenance operation.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the plurality of respective nodes are represented as a plurality of configuration items (CIs) in a configuration management database, and wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: establish a plurality of dependency relationships between the plurality of CIs; and traverse the plurality of dependency relationships to determine the functional impairment experienced by the first node of the plurality of respective nodes is causally related to the second node that requires maintenance.
</claims>
</document>
