<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06F40/295,G06F40/35,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/12,G10L15/065,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCCONNELL CHRISTOPHER C.
TAYLOR, JOHN ANTHONY
ICKMAN, STEVEN W.
PORTNOY, WILLIAM L.
SHAYANDEH, SHAHIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64563710
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic event processing
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for dispatching an incoming event are described. A scoring stack is accessed, the scoring stack comprising an identity of one or more tasks, each task corresponding to one or more scorable functions. A scorable tree is generated based on the one or more scorable functions corresponding to the one or more tasks of the scoring stack and the incoming event is processed using the scorable tree to generate one or more scores. One or more actions identified in the scorable tree are performed based on the one or more scores.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for dispatching an incoming event, comprising: obtaining the incoming event from a user device, the incoming event being a component of a natural language conversation; accessing a scoring stack using at least one hardware processor, the scoring stack comprising an identity of multiple tasks related to the natural language conversation, each task corresponding to one or more scorable functions; generating, using the at least one hardware processor, a scorable tree based on the one or more scorable functions corresponding to the tasks of the scoring stack, the scorable tree having a root node with branches of nodes corresponding to different conversational tracks and configured to evaluate a meaning of the incoming event; processing, using the at least one hardware processor, the incoming event using the nodes of the scorable tree to generate one or more scores for one or more subtree nodes; and performing, using the at least one hardware processor, one or more actions, at one or more of the nodes, related to the natural language conversation identified in the scorable tree based on the one or more scores; and appending a stack interruption element to the scoring stack, the stack interruption element allowing for resuming processing of an element of the scoring stack after processing the stack interruption element.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing the one or more actions is based on event information inferred from the incoming event by a parent node and forwarded to one or more child nodes of the scorable tree, the event information comprising one or more entities associated with the incoming event.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the incoming event is an internal or external event, and wherein the event is processed to determine an intent of the natural language conversation.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a final score at a root node of the scorable tree based on an intermediate scoring event from one or more child nodes of the root node and breaking scoring ties by giving precedence to scorable functions that reside deeper on the stack.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the final score comprises a confidence level that ranges from zero to one.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising parsing the incoming event to identify one or more entities.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising deactivating the scoring stack and initializing a second scoring stack to process a divergence from a conversational track of the natural language conversation.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising evaluating a global scorable function based on an assigned status of the global scorable function, the status designating the corresponding global scorable as active or inactive.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising defining a group of global scoreable functions and assigning a priority to the group, the priority used to determine an order of evaluation of the global scorable functions.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising resetting the scoring stack based on an evaluation of a global scorable function.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising resuming processing of the element of the scoring stack after processing the stack interruption element.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the scoring stack with an identity of one or more scorable functions that are within scope.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising emptying the scoring stack in response to receiving an indication of a match from one of the scorable functions.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising removing one or more of the one or more tasks from the scoring stack in response to receiving an indication of a match from one of the scorable functions.
15. An apparatus comprising: one or more hardware processors; memory to store instructions that, when executed by the one or more hardware processors perform operations comprising: obtaining the incoming event from a user device, the incoming event being a component of a natural language conversation; accessing a scoring stack using at least one hardware processor, the scoring stack comprising an identity of multiple tasks related to the natural language conversation, each task corresponding to one or more scorable functions; generating, using the at least one hardware processor, a scorable tree based on the one or more scorable functions corresponding to the tasks of the scoring stack, the scorable tree having a root node with branches of nodes corresponding to different conversational tracks and configured to evaluate a meaning of the incoming event; processing, using the at least one hardware processor, the incoming event using the nodes of the scorable tree to generate one or more scores for one or more subtree nodes; and performing, using the at least one hardware processor, one or more actions, at one or more of the nodes, related to the natural language conversation identified in the scorable tree based on the one or more scores; and appending a stack interruption element to the scoring stack, the stack interruption element allowing for resuming processing of an element of the scoring stack after processing the stack interruption element.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the performing the one or more actions is based on event information forwarded to one or more child nodes of the scorable tree, the event information comprising one or more entities associated with the incoming event.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, the operations further comprising determining a final score at a root node of the scorable tree based on an intermediate scoring event from one or more child nodes of the root node.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, the operations further comprising evaluating a global scorable function based on an assigned status of the global scorable function, the status designating the corresponding global scorable as active or inactive.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, the operations further comprising deactivating the scoring stack and initializing a second scoring stack to process a divergence from a conversational track of the natural language conversation.
20. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: obtaining the incoming event from a user device, the incoming event being a component of a natural language conversation; accessing a scoring stack using at least one hardware processor, the scoring stack comprising an identity of multiple tasks related to the natural language conversation, each task corresponding to one or more scorable functions; generating, using the at least one hardware processor, a scorable tree based on the one or more scorable functions corresponding to the tasks of the scoring stack, the scorable tree having a root node with branches of nodes corresponding to different conversational tracks and configured to evaluate a meaning of the incoming event; processing, using the at least one hardware processor, the incoming event using the nodes of the scorable tree to generate one or more scores for one or more subtree nodes; and performing, using the at least one hardware processor, one or more actions, at one or more of the nodes, related to the natural language conversation identified in the scorable tree based on the one or more scores; and appending a stack interruption element to the scoring stack, the stack interruption element allowing for resuming processing of an element of the scoring stack after processing the stack interruption element.
</claims>
</document>
