<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRENDKI, JENNIFER LAETITIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62980139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Providing recommendations based on user-generated post-purchase content and navigation patterns
</title>

<abstract>
A method including generating a weighting vector for a first user. The weighting vector can track a weight corresponding to each feature of a plurality of features. The plurality of features can represent purchasing criteria that are common to each item in a category of items. The method also can include, in response to receiving a request from the first user to view details for a selected item, recommending to the first user, in real-time after receiving the request, one or more other items that are different from the selected item. The selected item and the one or more other items can be in a category of items that is the same. The plurality of features can be in common for each item in the category of items. Sentiment data can include a sentiment score for each feature for each item in the category of items. The one or more other items can be recommended based on the sentiment score of one or more first features of the plurality of features for each of the one or more other items exceeding the sentiment score of a corresponding one of the one or more first features for the selected item. The method additionally can include receiving a new request from the first user to view details for a new selected item that is selected from among the one or more other items. The method further can include updating the weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features for the new selected item in the weighting vector for the first user. Other embodiments of related systems and methods are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processors and perform: generating, for a first user, a weighting vector that stores a respective weight corresponding to each feature of a plurality of features, wherein the plurality of features represent purchasing criteria that are common to each item in a category of items; in response to receiving a request from the first user to view details for a selected item, updating, in real-time after receiving the request, a graphical user interface to display to the first user the details for the selected item and recommendations for one or more other items that are different from the selected item, wherein the selected item and the one or more other items are in the category of items that is the same, wherein the plurality of features are common to each item in the category of items, wherein sentiment data comprises a respective sentiment score for each feature for each item in the category of items, and wherein the one or more other items are recommended based on the respective sentiment score of one or more first features of the plurality of features for each of the one or more other items exceeding the respective sentiment score of a respective corresponding one of the one or more first features for the selected item; receiving a new request from the first user to view new details for a new selected item based on the first user selecting one of the one or more other items in the graphical user interface; in response to receiving the new request for the new selected item, updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features for the new selected item in the weighting vector for the first user based on the new request of the new selected item; and updating the graphical user interface, receiving the new request for the new selected item, and updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features are iteratively performed in an interactive navigation pattern of the graphical user interface such that, for each subsequent iteration, the new request becomes the request, the new selected item becomes the selected item, and the new details become the details.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing instructions are further configured to perform: generating, for each respective item in the category of items, a respective item boosting signal for the first user based on a dot product of the weighting vector and a score vector representing the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for the respective item.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the computing instructions are further configured to perform: generating a respective updated ranking score for each item in the category of items for the first user based on the respective item boosting signal for the item.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computing instructions are further configured to perform: updating the graphical user interface to display a list of item results to the first user, the list of item results being based on the respective updated ranking scores for items in the category of items.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more other items are recommended based on the respective sentiment score for each of one or more first features of the plurality of features for the selected item being below a first predetermined threshold.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more other items are recommended based on a similarity score for the selected item and each of the one or more other items exceeding a predetermined threshold.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more first features of the plurality of features are different for each of the one or more other items.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more other items are displayed in the graphical user interface to the first user in a webpage that comprises the details for the selected item and a listing of each of the one or more other items.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein: the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for items in the category of items are derived from user-generated post-purchase content about the items.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing instructions are further configured to perform: before updating the graphical user interface, applying de-biasing rules to normalize the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for items in the category of items.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features for the new selected item in the weighting vector for the first user further comprises: using a decay factor based on an amount of time taken by the first user to select the new selected item.
12. A method being implemented via execution of computing instructions configured to run at one or more processors and configured to be stored at non-transitory computer-readable media, the method comprising: generating, for a first user, a weighting vector that stores a respective weight corresponding to each feature of a plurality of features, wherein the plurality of features represent purchasing criteria that are common to each item in a category of items; in response to receiving a request from the first user to view details for a selected item, updating, in real-time after receiving the request, a graphical user interface to display to the first user the details for the selected item and recommendations for one or more other items that are different from the selected item, wherein the selected item and the one or more other items are in a category of items that is the same, wherein the plurality of features are common to each item in the category of items, wherein sentiment data comprises a respective sentiment score for each feature for each item in a category of items, and wherein the one or more other items are recommended based on the respective sentiment score of one or more first features of the plurality of features for each of the one or more other items exceeding the respective sentiment score of a respective corresponding one of the one or more first features for the selected item; receiving a new request from the first user to view new details for a new selected item based on the first user selecting one of the one or more other items in the graphical user interface; in response to receiving the new request for the new selected item, updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features for the new selected item in the weighting vector for the first user based on the new request of the new selected item; and updating the graphical user interface, receiving the new request for the new selected item, and updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features are iteratively performed in an interactive navigation pattern of the graphical user interface such that, for each subsequent iteration, the new request becomes the request, the new selected item becomes the selected item, and the new details become the details.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating, for each respective item in the category of items, a respective item boosting signal for the first user based on a dot product of the weighting vector and a score vector representing the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for the respective item.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: generating a respective updated ranking score for each item in the category of items for the first user based on the respective item boosting signal for the item.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: updating the graphical user interface to display a list of item results to the first user, the list of item results being based on the respective updated ranking scores for items in the category of items.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein: the one or more other items are recommended based on the respective sentiment score for each of one or more first features of the plurality of features for the selected item being below a first predetermined threshold; and the one or more other items are recommended based on a similarity score for the selected item and each of the one or more other items exceeding a second predetermined threshold.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein: the one or more first features of the plurality of features are different for each of the one or more other items.
18. The method of claim 12, wherein: the one or more other items are displayed in the graphical user interface to the first user in a webpage that comprises the details for the selected item and a listing of each of the one or more other items.
19. The method of claim 12, further comprising: before updating the graphical user interface, applying de-biasing rules to normalize the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for items in the category of items, wherein: the respective sentiment scores for the plurality of features for the items in the category of items are derived from user-generated post-purchase content about the items.
20. The method of claim 12, wherein updating the respective weight that corresponds to each of the one or more first features for the new selected item in the weighting vector for the first user further comprises: using a decay factor based on an amount of time taken by the first user to select the new selected item.
</claims>
</document>
