<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G10L19/018,H04B11/00,H04H20/61,H04H20/93,H04H60/64
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHANNA, HEMAN
GWALANI, SUMIT
MADAN, ARJITA
NANDAKUMAR, KISHORE
CHIANG, EDWARD
RAWAT, PARIDHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61258617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile service requests to any sound emitting device
</title>

<abstract>
An information system generates data, generates an audio token, associates the audio token with the data, and transmits the audio token along with the data to the account management system. The information system configures a broadcasting computing device to broadcast the audio token at a location. User computing devices at the location via an audio communication channel receive the broadcast token and retransmit the audio token to the account management system via a network. The account management system receives the audio token from a particular user computing device along with a request for data associated with the audio token, extracts the data associated with the audio token data, and transmits the data associated with the audio token to the particular user computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method to transmit data to user computing devices via audio communication channels, comprising: receiving, by a first computing system, a request to generate an audio token associated with data comprising transaction details; generating, by the first computing system, the audio token; associating, by the first computing system, the audio token with the data; transmitting, by the first computing system, the audio token to a broadcasting computing device configured to broadcast the audio token via an audio communication channel; receiving, by the first computing system, a retransmitted audio token from a user computing device, the audio token being broadcast by the broadcast computing device to the user computing device via the audio communication channel and retransmitted by the user computing device to the first computing system via a network; determining, by the first computing system, that the data is associated with the retransmitted audio token; and obtaining, by the first computing system in response to determining that the data is associated with the retransmitted audio token, approval to process a payment transaction by, at least in part, transmitting one or more of the transaction details of the data to the user computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises one or more of text and images.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises a uniform resource locator ("URL") associated with a website.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the broadcasting computing device broadcasts the audio token via an audio component comprising a speaker.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the audio token is received via a microphone component of the user computing device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data associated with the audio token comprises one or more interface objects and information associated with each of the one or more interface objects, wherein the user computing device displays the one or more interface objects, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving, from the user computing device, a selection of a particular one of the one or more interface objects; and in response to receiving the selection of the particular one of the one or more interface objects, transmitting, to the user computing device, the information corresponding to the particular one of the one or more interface objects.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-executable program instructions embodied thereon, that when executed by a processor of a computing device, cause the computing device to: receive a request to generate an audio token for association with data comprising transaction details; associate the audio token with the data; transmit the audio token to a second computing system, wherein the second computing system utilizes a broadcasting computing device at a location to broadcast the audio token to a user computing device via an audio communication channel; receive the audio token from the user computing device, the audio token being from the broadcast by the broadcast computing device to the user computing device via an audio communication channel and being retransmitted by the user computing device to a computing system via a network; retrieve the data associated with the audio token; and obtain, in response to determining that the data is associated with the retransmitted audio token, approval to process a payment transaction by, at least in part, transmitting one or more of the transaction details of the data to the user computing device.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the data comprises one or more of text and images.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the data comprises a uniform resource locator ("URL") associated with a website.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the broadcasting computing device broadcasts the audio token via an audio component comprising a speaker.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the computing device further: receives the audio token via a microphone component.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the data associated with the audio token comprises one or more interface objects and information associated with each of the one or more interface objects, and the computing device further: receives, from the user computing device, a selection associated with a particular one of the one or more interface objects; and transmits, to the user computing device in response to receiving the selection associated with the particular one of the one or more interface objects, the information corresponding to the particular one of the one or more interface objects.
13. A system to transmit data to user computing devices via audio communication channels, comprising: a storage device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the storage device, wherein the processor executes application code instructions from the storage device causing the system to: receive, by a first computing system, a request to generate an audio token for association with data comprising transaction details; associate, by the first computing system, the audio token with the data; transmit, by the first computing system, the audio token to a second computing system, wherein the second computing system configures a broadcasting computing device at a location to broadcast the audio token to a user computing device via an audio communication channel; receive, by the first computing system, the audio token from the user computing device, the audio token being from the broadcast by the broadcast computing device to the user computing device via an audio communication channel and being retransmitted by the user computing device to the first computing system; retrieve, by the first computing system, the data associated with the audio token; and obtain, by the first computing system in response to determining that the data is associated with the retransmitted audio token, approval to process a payment transaction by, at least in part, transmitting one or more of the transaction details of the data to the user computing device.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the data comprises one or more of text and images.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the data comprises a uniform resource locator ("URL") associated with a website.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the broadcasting computing device broadcasts the audio token via an audio component comprising a speaker.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the system further comprises the second computing system and the broadcasting computing device.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the data associated with the audio token comprises one or more interface objects and information associated with each of the one or more interface objects, and the system further: receives, from the user computing device, a selection associated with a particular one of the one or more interface objects; and transmits, to the user computing device in response to receiving the selection associated with the particular one of the one or more interface objects, the information corresponding to the particular one of the one or more interface objects.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the system further receives a request from the user computing device for data associated with the audio token with the audio token.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing, by the first computing system, the payment transaction with a third-party system based, at least in part, on obtaining the approval for processing the payment transaction and one or more of the transaction details of the data associated with the audio token.
</claims>
</document>
