<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0487,G09B19/02,G09B5/02,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Ansarullah Ridwan Mohammed
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDURRAHMAN, MUHAMMAD
MOHAMMED, ANSARULLAH RIDWAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56615053
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Positional analysis for prayer recognition
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques for assaying conformance to an activity manipulating a beaded-string smart device are herein described. The beaded-string smart device may include an active bead. The active bead may include at least one processor, at least one sensor, and at least one output device. A set of parameters for a model of the activity may be received to establish a measurable metric for at least a portion of the activity. A set of motion data may be collected. A position of the active bead may be calculated in relation to the remainder of the smart device using the set of motion data. The position of the active bead may be compared to the measurable metric to establish progress of the activity. A perceptible output of the progress may be provided via the at least one output device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An active bead for a beaded-string smart device, the active bead comprising: a housing including a fastener to attach the active bead to the beaded-string smart device, wherein the beaded-string smart device includes a plurality of beads; at least one processor; at least one sensor; and a memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the active bead to: receive a set of parameters for a model of an activity to establish a measurable metric for at least a portion of the activity; measure, via the at least one sensor, a set of motion data for the active bead; transmit an indication that the activity has started to a wristband device; calculate, using the at least one processor, a position of the active bead in relation to a remainder of the plurality of beads of the smart device using the set of motion data wherein the set of motion data includes rotational data of the active bead and the position of the active bead is calculated using the rotational data; compare, using the at least one processor, the position of the active bead to the measurable metric to establish progress of the activity; transmit the progress to the wristband device; and receive an indication the activity is complete, based on the progress, from the wristband device.
2. The active bead of claim 1, further comprising: an input device, wherein the instructions further cause the active bead to receive the set of parameters via the input device.
3. The active bead of claim 2, further comprising a display, wherein the instructions to receive the set of parameters cause the active bead to: provide a setup mode graphical user interface on the display; and obtain a set of inputs from an interaction with the setup mode graphical user interface, wherein the set of parameters are derived from the set of inputs.
4. The active bead of claim 1, further including instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the beaded-string smart device to: initiate, via the beaded-string smart device, a training mode; collect, via the at least one sensor, a set of training motion data; and generate the model of activity using the set of training motion data.
5. The active bead of claim 1, wherein the set of motion data includes acceleration data and the position is calculated using the acceleration data.
6. The active bead of claim 1, wherein the set of motion data is normalized and the position is calculated using the normalized data.
7. The active bead of claim 6, wherein the set of motion data includes at least one type of motion data and wherein normalizing the set of motion data includes averaging a type of motion data of the set of motion data.
8. A method for assaying conformance to an activity manipulating a beaded-string smart device, the beaded-string smart device including an active bead, the active bead including at least one processor, at least one sensor, and at least one output device, the method comprising: receiving, by the active bead of the beaded-string smart device, a set of parameters for a model of the activity to establish a measurable metric for at least a portion of the activity, wherein the beaded-string smart device includes a plurality of beads; measuring, via the at least one sensor, a set of motion data for the active bead; transmitting an indication that the activity has started to a wristband device; calculating, using the at least one processor, a position of the active bead in relation to a remainder of the plurality of beads of the smart device using the set of motion data, wherein the set of motion data includes rotational data of the active bead and the position of the active bead is calculated using the rotational data; comparing, using the at least one processor, the position of the active bead to the measurable metric to establish progress of the activity; transmitting the progress to the wristband device; and receiving an indication the activity is complete, based on the progress, from the wristband device.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein receiving the set of parameters includes receiving the set of parameters via an input device of the active bead.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the input device includes a display, and where receiving the set of parameters includes: providing a setup mode graphical user interface on the display; and obtaining a set of inputs from an interaction with the setup mode graphical user interface, the set of parameters derived from the set of inputs.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: initiating, via the beaded-string smart device, a training mode; collecting, via the at least one sensor, a set of training motion data; and generating the model of the activity using the set of training motion data.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of motion data includes acceleration data and the position is calculated using the acceleration data.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of motion data is normalized and the position is calculated using the normalized data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the set of motion data includes at least one type of motion data and wherein normalizing the set of motion data includes averaging a type of motion data of the set of motion data.
15. A computer readable medium including instructions for assaying conformance to an activity manipulating a beaded-string smart device, the instructions, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: receiving, by an active bead of the beaded-string smart device, a set of parameters for a model of the activity to establish a measurable metric for at least a portion of the activity, wherein the beaded-string smart device includes a plurality of beads; measuring, via the at least one sensor, a set of motion data for the active bead; transmitting an indication that the activity has started to a wristband device; calculating, using the at least one processor, a position of the active bead in relation to a remainder of the plurality of beads of the smart device using the set of motion data, wherein the set of motion data includes rotational data of the active bead and the position of the active bead is calculated using the rotational data; comparing, using the at least one processor, the position of the active bead to the measurable metric to establish progress of the activity; transmitting the progress to the wristband device; and receiving an indication the activity is complete, based on the progress, from the wristband device.
16. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein receiving the set of parameters includes receiving the set of parameters via an input device of the active bead.
17. The computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the input device includes a display, and where receiving the set of parameters includes: providing a setup mode graphical user interface on the display; and obtaining a set of inputs from an interaction with the setup mode graphical user interface, the set of parameters derived from the set of inputs.
18. The computer readable medium of claim 15, further comprising: initiating, via the beaded-string smart device, a training mode; collecting, via the at least one sensor, a set of training motion data; and generating the model of the activity using the set of training motion data.
19. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the set of motion data includes acceleration data and the position is calculated using the acceleration data.
20. The computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the set of motion data is normalized and the position is calculated using the normalized data.
21. The computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the set of motion data includes at least one type of motion data and wherein normalizing the set of motion data includes averaging a type of motion data of the set of motion data.
</claims>
</document>
