<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07C5/00,G07C5/08,G11C11/00,G11C11/4072,G11C11/56,G11C16/10,G11C5/04,G11C7/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, YI
HANSEL, GEORGE JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64815563
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Black box with volatile memory caching
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, an apparatus includes a volatile memory module configured to store vehicle data; a non-volatile memory module coupled to the volatile memory module; and an energy-storage module configured to provide power to the volatile memory module and the non-volatile memory module during a data transfer between the volatile memory module and the non-volatile memory module. The energy is provided to the non-volatile memory module for writing the vehicle data to non-volatile memory. The apparatus further includes a collision-detector module configured to identify a collision event of the vehicle; and a controller coupled to the energy-storage module and the collision-detector module. The controller is configured to initiate a transfer of the vehicle data stored in the volatile memory module to the non-volatile memory module in response to receiving an indication from the collision-detector module that a collision has occurred.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a volatile memory module configured to store vehicle data; a collision-detector module configured to identify a collision event of a vehicle has occurred; a refrigeration module coupled to the volatile memory module, wherein the refrigeration module is configured to lower a temperature of the volatile memory module in response to receiving a signal initiating lowering the temperature of the volatile memory module and in response to receiving energy from an energy-storage module; and a controller coupled to the collision-detector module, the refrigeration module, and the energy-storage module, wherein in response to receiving an indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred, the controller is configured to: initiate lowering the temperature of the volatile memory module by the refrigeration module; and initiate a transfer of energy stored in the energy-storage module to the refrigeration module.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a heat sink, heat pipe, or heat spreader in contact with the volatile memory module.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the refrigeration module comprises a barrier separating a chamber containing a first material and a chamber containing a second material, wherein: the barrier separating the chamber containing the first material and the chamber containing the second material is removed in response to receiving the signal initiating lowering the temperature of the volatile memory module; and the first and second materials have a reaction causing lowering of the temperature of the volatile memory module once the first and second materials are mixed.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the first material and the second material comprise water and ammonium salt, water and ammonium chloride, water and ammonium nitrate, water and potassium chloride, barium hydroxide octahydrate crystals and dry ammonium chloride, or thionyl chloride (SOC12) and cobalt(II) sulfate heptahydrate.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the refrigeration module is a thermoelectric refrigerator.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the volatile memory module, the refrigeration module, the collision-detector module, and the controller are housed in a black box enclosure.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the volatile memory module is configured to receive sensor data and vehicle information from one or more processing units.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vehicle data comprises video or images from infrared cameras or optical cameras, light detection and ranging (LiDAR) imaging data, radar data, global positioning system (GPS) data, inertial measurement unit data, or accelerometer data.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vehicle data comprises computational logs, intermediate computation results, object detection results, speed information, or sensor status information.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vehicle data comprises image data from one or more optical cameras or imaging data from one or more LiDAR receivers.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising the energy-storage module and a non-volatile memory module, wherein the energy-storage module is configured to store power for writing the vehicle data stored in the volatile memory module on the non-volatile memory module.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a non-volatile memory module, wherein the vehicle data is written on the non-volatile memory module only when the collision event has occurred.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a storage capacity of the volatile memory module is sufficient to store at least 30 seconds of imaging and LiDAR data gathered by one or more sensors of the vehicle.
14. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the vehicle data stored in the volatile memory module comprises sensor data or navigation decision data.
15. A method comprising, by a computing device: receiving an indication from a collision-detector module that a collision event of a vehicle has occurred; initiating a transfer of energy stored in an energy-storage module to a refrigeration module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred; and transmitting a signal to the refrigeration module initiating lowering a temperature of a volatile memory module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred, wherein the refrigeration module is configured to lower the temperature of the volatile memory module in response to receiving energy from the energy-storage module.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising transmitting a signal to a bus controller initiating a transfer of vehicle data stored in the volatile memory module to a non-volatile memory module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred.
17. The method claim 15, wherein the signal transmitted to the refrigeration module initiates a mixing of water with an ammonium salt for lowering the temperature of the volatile memory module.
18. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to cause one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receive an indication from a collision-detector module that a collision event of a vehicle has occurred; initiate a transfer of energy stored in an energy-storage module to a refrigeration module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred; and transmit a signal to the refrigeration module initiating lowering a temperature of a volatile memory module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred, wherein the refrigeration module is configured to lower the temperature of the volatile memory module in response to receiving energy from the energy-storage module.
19. The media of claim 18, wherein the software is further operable to transmit a signal to a bus controller initiating a transfer of vehicle data stored in the volatile memory module to a non-volatile memory module in response to receiving the indication from the collision-detector module that the collision event has occurred.
20. The media of claim 18, wherein the signal transmitted to the refrigeration module initiates a mixing of water with an ammonium salt for lowering the temperature of the volatile memory module.
</claims>
</document>
