<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
RODGERS, DOUGLAS S.
HOLTON, JENNIFER A.
SHEESLEY, ADAM
KEENE, DAVID HUEHULANI
BLOCK, MATTHEW J.
WELBORN, JON M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70775044
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Rogue foothold network defense
</title>

<abstract>
The innovation disclosed and claimed herein, in one aspect thereof, comprises systems and methods of reconfiguring network settings. The systems and methods monitor a network and detect a hacker on a network. The systems and methods can reconfigure network settings of the network upon detecting the hacker. The systems and methods can analyze the hack for severity; and determine a reconfiguration layer based on the severity of the hack. The reconfiguration layer determines a subset of the network settings to be reconfigured. The systems and methods can dismantle the network and generate a replacement network having the reconfigured set of network settings and replace the network with the replacement network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: monitoring a network having a plurality of network segments; detecting a foothold event at a first network segment, wherein the first network segment includes a set of network settings, and wherein the foothold event is a detected unauthorized access of the first network segment; analyzing the foothold event for severity upon detecting the foothold event; determining a reconfiguration layer based on the severity of the foothold event, wherein determining the reconfiguration layer comprises: determining a severity score based on the analysis of the foothold event wherein the reconfiguration layer is based on the severity score of the foothold event, and wherein the reconfiguration layer determines a subset of network settings of the set of network settings to be reconfigured based on the severity score, wherein determining the severity score is based on severity factors, wherein the factors are weighted according to criticality of the first network segment; comparing the severity score to two or more score tiers; matching the severity score to one score tier of the two or more score tiers based on the comparison; and determining the reconfiguration layer based on the matched score tier; reconfiguring at least part of the set of network settings of the first network segment based on the determined reconfiguration layer; generating a second network segment having the reconfigured set of network settings; dismantling the first network segment; and replacing the first network segment with the second network segment.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: storing node communication information for the first network segment; rebuilding communication paths between at least two nodes for the second network segment using the node communication information, wherein the at least two nodes originally communicated with each other via the first network segment.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the reconfiguring comprises: receiving a standardized set of network settings from a configuration server.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the reconfiguring comprises: machine learning network settings across the network and the analysis of the foothold event; and customizing the set of network settings according to machine learned settings on the configuration server.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first network segment is a virtual network that is part of the network, the virtual network having a set of virtual network settings.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the reconfiguration layer determines a subset of network settings of the set of network settings to be reconfigured.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of network settings comprises at least one of a MAC address, an IP address, SNMP settings, DNS settings, SSH settings, or QoS settings.
8. The method of claim 1, comprising: wherein the matched score tier affects the subset of network settings in the reconfiguration layer for the second network segment.
9. A system, comprising: a scanning component that monitors a network having a plurality of network segments; a detection component that detects a foothold event at a first network segment, wherein the first network segment includes a set of network settings, and wherein the foothold event is a detected unauthorized access of the first network segment; an analysis component that analyzes the foothold event for severity, wherein the analysis component determines a severity score based on the analysis of the foothold event; a determination component that determines a reconfiguration layer based on the severity score of the foothold event, wherein the reconfiguration layer determines a subset of network settings of the set of network settings to be reconfigured based on the severity score wherein determining the reconfiguration layer comprises: wherein the analysis component determines the severity score based on severity factors, wherein the factors are weighted according to criticality of the first network segment; and wherein the determination component: compares the severity score to two or more score tiers; matches the severity score to one score tier of the two or more score tiers based on the comparison; and determines the reconfiguration layer based on the matched score tier; a network management component that reconfigures the set of network settings of the first network segment based on the determined reconfiguration layer; and a generation component that creates a second network segment having the reconfigured set of network settings; wherein the network management component: dismantles the first network segment such that the first network segment becomes offline or no longer part of the network; and replaces the first network segment with the second network segment.
10. The system of claim 9, comprising: a storage component that stores node communication information for the first network segment; and wherein the network management component rebuilds communication paths between at least two nodes for the second network segment using the node communication information, wherein the at least two nodes originally communicated with each other via the first network segment.
11. The system of claim 9, comprising: a configuration server that provides a standardized set of network settings.
12. The system of claim 11, the configuration server comprises: a machine learning component that: machine learns network settings across the network; learns the analysis of the foothold event; and customizes the set of network settings according to machine learned settings on the configuration server.
13. The system of claim 9, comprising a virtualization component that virtualizes the first network segment as a virtual network, the virtual network having a set of virtual network settings.
14. The system of claim 9, comprising: wherein the matched score tier affects the subset of network settings in the reconfiguration layer for the second network segment.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium having instructions to control one or more processors configured to: monitor a network having a plurality of network segments; detect a foothold event at a first network segment, wherein the first network segment includes a set of network settings, and wherein the foothold event is a detected unauthorized access of the first network segment; analyze the foothold event for severity to determine a severity score; determine a reconfiguration layer based on the severity score of the foothold event, wherein the reconfiguration layer determines a subset of network settings of the set of network settings to be reconfigured; wherein determining the reconfiguration layer comprises: determining a severity score based on the analysis of the foothold event wherein the reconfiguration layer is based on the severity score of the foothold event, and wherein the reconfiguration layer determines a subset of network settings of the set of network settings to be reconfigured based on the severity score, wherein determining the severity score is based on severity factors, wherein the factors are weighted according to criticality of the first network segment; comparing the severity score to two or more score tiers; matching the severity score to one score tier of the two or more score tiers based on the comparison; and determining the reconfiguration layer based on the matched score tier; reconfigure the set of network settings of the first network segment based on the determined reconfiguration layer; dismantle the first network segment such that the first network segment becomes offline or no longer part of the network; generate a second network segment having the reconfigured set of network settings; and replace the first network segment with the second network segment.
</claims>
</document>
