<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60P1/02,B60R1/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CATERPILLAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
HA, CHRISTOPHER
LIU, YANG
MATHEW, SHAWN NAINAN
Shin, Sanghyun
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72917274
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining payload carrier volume using a neural network
</title>

<abstract>
A method for loading a payload carrier of a machine includes receiving, from a camera on the machine, a two-dimensional image of an interior of the payload carrier as material is loaded into the payload carrier. The method further includes sectioning the two-dimensional image into a plurality of regions, and determining, for individual of the regions, whether the region includes a representative of fill material. The method may also include determining a fill volume based on the regions having fill and those not having fill.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of determining a volume of fill material in a payload carrier of a machine, the method comprising: receiving, from a camera on the machine, a two-dimensional image of an interior of the payload carrier; identifying a plurality of regions of the two-dimensional image corresponding to regions of the interior of the payload carrier; determining, for individual regions of the plurality of regions, whether the individual regions include a representation of fill material; and determining a fill volume of the payload carrier based at least in part on a number of the individual regions that include the representation of fill material and at the exclusion of three-dimensional image data about the fill material.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the representation of the fill material comprises: for a first region of the plurality of regions, passing a portion of the two-dimensional image corresponding to the first region into a neural network, and receiving, from the neural network, an indication that the first region includes the representation of fill material.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the neural network is configured to determine the indication that the first region includes the representation of fill material in response to determining a similarity of the portion of the two-dimensional image to reference images indicated as including fill in a predetermined area of the reference image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of two-dimensional regions comprises an array of similarly-shaped regions, adjacent of the similarly-shaped regions sharing a border.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the fill volume is equal to or greater than a threshold fill volume; and sending, based at least in part on determining that the fill volume is equal to or greater than the threshold fill volume, a signal to a controller associated with the machine.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the determining that the fill volume is equal to or greater than the threshold fill volume comprises determining that a predetermined number of the plurality of two-dimensional regions includes a representation of fill material.
7. A machine comprising: a payload carrier defining an interior having a volume; a camera fixed relative to the interior of the payload carrier and configured to capture two-dimensional images of the interior of the payload carrier; a display device; and a controller configured to: receive an image of the two-dimensional images; determine, for individual regions of a plurality of regions of the image, whether the individual regions include a representation of fill material; determine, based at least in part on whether the individual regions include the representation of fill material, a fill volume of the payload carrier, the fill volume representative of a relationship of a number of individual regions including the representation of fill material and a total number of the plurality of regions; and cause the display device to display information about the fill volume.
8. The machine of claim 7, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine that the fill volume is equal to or exceeds a threshold fill volume; and generate, based at least in part on determining that the fill volume is equal to or exceeds the threshold fill volume, a signal indicative of the payload carrier being loaded.
9. The machine of claim 8, wherein the controller is configured to determine that the fill volume is equal to or exceeds the threshold fill volume based at least in part on at least one of determining that a predetermined number of the plurality of regions includes the representation of the fill material or that a specific one of the plurality of regions includes the representation of the fill material.
10. The machine of claim 8, wherein the controller is further configured to cause the display device to indicate that the payload carrier is loaded at least in part in response to the signal.
11. The machine of claim 8, further comprising: one or more actuators; and an actuator controller configured to receive the signal and, in response to the signal, control the one or more actuators to raise the payload carrier from a ground surface.
12. The machine of claim 7, wherein determining that the individual regions include the representation of the fill material comprises: passing a portion of the two-dimensional image corresponding to the individual region into a neural network, and receiving, from the neural network, an indication that the individual region includes the representation of fill material and a certainty associated with the indication.
13. The machine of claim 12, wherein the neural network is configured to determine the indication that the individual region includes the representation of fill material in response to determining a similarity of the portion of the two-dimensional image to reference images indicated as including fill in a predetermined area of the reference image.
14. The machine of claim 7, wherein the plurality of regions comprises an array of similarly-shaped regions, adjacent of the similarly-shaped regions sharing a border.
15. The machine of claim 7, wherein the first fill volume is a ratio of the number to the total number.
16. A camera system for assisting loading of a payload carrier of a machine, the camera system comprising: a two-dimensional camera; one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the camera system to perform actions comprising: receiving, from the two-dimensional camera, an image of an interior of the payload carrier of the machine; identifying a plurality of regions of the image; determining, for individual regions of the plurality of regions, a presence of fill material; and determining, based at least in part on the presence of fill material in the individual regions, and at the exclusion of three-dimensional image data, a fill volume of the payload carrier.
17. The camera system of claim 16, wherein the determining presence of fill material comprises: for a first region of the individual regions, passing a portion of the image corresponding to the first region into a neural network, and receiving, from the neural network, an indication that the first region includes the presence of fill material and a certainty associated with the indication.
18. The camera system of claim 17, wherein the neural network is configured to determine the indication that the first region includes the presence of fill material in response to determining a similarity of the portion of the image to reference images indicated as including fill in a predetermined area of the reference image.
19. The camera system of claim 16, the actions further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the fill volume being equal to or exceeding a threshold fill volume, that the payload carrier is loaded; and generating a signal indicative of the payload carrier being loaded.
20. The camera system of claim 19, the actions further comprising: sending the signal to at least one of a display device associated with the machine or an actuator controller associated with one or more actuators actuatable to stop filling of the payload carrier.
</claims>
</document>
