<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/907,G06K17/00,G06K7/10,G06K7/14,G06Q10/08,G06Q90/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, JACOB AVERY
SPENCER, WINSTON EARL DELANO
FREEMAN, JOSHUA RHYS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61157997
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for monitoring and restocking merchandise
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, apparatuses and methods are provided herein useful to monitoring and restocking merchandise in a shopping facility. In some embodiments, there is provided a system including: an array of image sensors disposed about a shopping facility for capturing image sequences; a memory device configured to store the image sequences; a plurality of barcodes disposed on merchandise display containers about the shopping facility; a barcode database including a plurality of barcodes corresponding to merchandise; and a control circuit configured to: compare the image sequences with the images from the image database; determine the presence of a barcode at a display container to identify a type of merchandise in the merchandise display container; and estimate or determine the amount of merchandise in the display container.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for monitoring and restocking merchandise in a shopping facility, the system comprising: a plurality of display boxes disposed in a shopping facility, each display box configured to hold one type of merchandise; an array of image sensors disposed at predetermined positions about the shopping facility according to a predetermined pattern and configured to capture a plurality of image sequences, the image sensors arranged and oriented to capture image sequences of merchandise stored inside the plurality of display boxes; at least one memory device configured to store the image sequences captured by the array of image sensors; a plurality of barcodes disposed inside each of the plurality of display boxes about the shopping facility, the barcodes inside each display box disposed at a plurality of positions inside the display box indicating a certain amount of merchandise remaining in the display box; a barcode database including a plurality of barcodes corresponding to merchandise; a control circuit operatively coupled to the array of image sensors and the barcode database, the control circuit configured at predetermined time intervals to: compare the image sequences with the predetermined barcodes from the barcode database; determine the presence of at least one barcode in a display box to identify a type of merchandise in the display box; generate an estimate of the amount of merchandise in the display box based on the plurality of positions of the barcodes inside each display box; and generate and transmit a notification to instruct restocking of the display box with the identified merchandise when the estimate falls below a predetermined minimum amount.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a sales database comprising sales and time data for the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the sales and time data.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a weather database comprising temperature and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the temperature and time data.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a seasonality database comprising a seasonality value and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the seasonality value and time data.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: an events database comprising at least one of sports and local events data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the at least one of sports and local events data.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to: instruct communication to an employee of the shopping facility to determine the amount of merchandise in the display box at the predetermined time intervals; adjust the predetermined time intervals based on the amount of merchandise in the display box.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to determine that the at least one barcode in the display box does not correspond to the merchandise in the display box.
8. A method for monitoring and restocking merchandise in a shopping facility, the method comprising: disposing a plurality of display boxes in a shopping facility, each display box configured to hold one type of merchandise; positioning an array of image sensors at predetermined positions about the shopping facility according to a predetermined pattern, the image sensors arranged and oriented to capture image sequences of merchandise stored inside a plurality of display boxes; capturing a plurality of image sequences with the array of image sensors; storing the image sequences captured by the image sensors; disposing a plurality of barcodes inside each of the plurality of display boxes about the shopping facility, the barcodes inside each display box disposed at a plurality of positions inside the display box indicating a certain amount of merchandise remaining in the display box; storing a plurality of predetermined barcodes corresponding to merchandise in a barcode database; comparing the image sequences with the predetermined barcodes from the barcode database at predetermined time intervals; determining the presence of at least one barcode in a display box to identify a type of merchandise in the display box; generating an estimate of the amount of merchandise in the display box based on the plurality of positions of the barcodes inside each display box; and generating and transmitting a notification to instruct restocking of the display box with the identified merchandise when the estimate falls below a predetermined minimum amount.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by sales and time data for the type of merchandise in the display box.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by weather data comprising temperature and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by a seasonality value and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by at least one of sports and local events data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: instructing communication to an employee of the shopping facility to determine the amount of merchandise in the display box at the predetermined time intervals; and adjusting the predetermined time intervals based on the amount of merchandise in the display box.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining whether the at least one barcode at the display box corresponds to the merchandise in the display box.
15. A system for monitoring and restocking merchandise in a shopping facility, the system comprising: a plurality of display boxes disposed in a shopping facility, each display box configured to hold one type of merchandise; an array of image sensors disposed at predetermined positions about the shopping facility according to a predetermined pattern and configured to capture a plurality of image sequences, the image sensors arranged and oriented to capture image sequences of merchandise stored inside the plurality of display boxes; at least one memory device configured to store the image sequences captured by the array of image sensors; a plurality of barcodes disposed inside each of the plurality of display boxes about the shopping facility, the barcodes inside each display box disposed at a plurality of positions inside the display box indicating a certain amount of merchandise remaining in the display box; a barcode database including a plurality of predetermined barcodes corresponding to merchandise; a sales database comprising sales data for the merchandise in the display boxes; a control circuit operatively coupled to the array of image sensors, the barcode database, and the sales database, the control circuit configured at predetermined time intervals to: compare the image sequences with the predetermined barcodes from the barcode database; identify a type of merchandise in a display box; generate an estimate of the amount of merchandise in the display box based on the image sequences showing the plurality of positions of the barcodes inside each display box and based on the sales data; generate and transmit a notification to an employee of the shopping facility to determine the amount of merchandise in the display box; and adjust the predetermined time intervals based on the amount of merchandise in the display box.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising: a weather database comprising temperature and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the temperature and time data.
17. The system of claim 15, further comprising: a seasonality database comprising a seasonality value and time data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the seasonality value and time data.
18. The system of claim 15, further comprising: an events database comprising at least one of sports and local events data corresponding to the type of merchandise in the display box; wherein the frequency of the predetermined time intervals is determined, at least in part, by the at least one of sports and local events data.
</claims>
</document>
