<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUNAWAR, ASIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58236967
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Learning of classification model
</title>

<abstract>
A method for learning a classification model by a computer system is disclosed. One or more positive class data and one or more negative class data are prepared. The classification model is trained based on the positive class data to adjust one or more parameters of the classification model so that the positive class data is reconstructed by the classification model. The classification model is trained based on the negative class data to adjust the one or more parameters so that the negative class data is prevented from being reconstructed by the classification model. For the negative class data, changes in the one or more parameters with gradient of an objective function may be calculated using an unsupervised learning algorithm. The one or more parameters may be updated based on the changes in an opposite manner to the training based on the positive class.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for training an image recognition engine, the method comprising: preparing from input visual images one or more positive class images and one or more negative class images by segmenting input visual images having at least one pixel into image patches, where the image patches are the positive class images and the negative class images; training an autoencoder based on the positive class images to adjust one or more parameters of the autoencoder so that the positive class images are reconstructed by the autoencoder; training the autoencoder based on the negative class images to adjust the one or more parameters so that the negative class images are prevented from being reconstructed by the autoencoder; and reconstructing input visual images based on the one or more parameters, such that reconstructed input visual images include desirable features, and input visual images that are prevented from being reconstructed include undesirable features.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the training based on the negative class images comprises: calculating changes in the one or more parameters with gradient of an objective function using an unsupervised learning algorithm; and updating the one or more parameters based on the changes in an opposite manner to the training based on the positive class images.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the unsupervised learning algorithm is any one of unsupervised learning algorithms including a contrastive divergence method, a stochastic gradient descent method, a batch gradient descent method, a persistent contrastive divergence method, a Gibbs sampling method or variants thereof.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein iteration for the training based on the negative class images is repeated before the training based on the positive class images is performed.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the training based on the positive class images and the training based on the negative class images are alternately performed until a predetermined criterion is satisfied and the learning for reconstruction is finished at the training based on the positive class images.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoencoder includes at least parameter used for reconstructing or encoding a signal.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the autoencoder is an autoencoder or includes at least part of an autoencoder.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained autoencoder encodes an input signal similar to any one of the negative class images and decodes it to the closest representation that is similar to the positive class images.
9. A method for training an image recognition engine, the method comprising: preparing from input visual images one or more positive class images and one or more negative class images by segmenting input visual images having at least one pixel into image patches, where the image patches are the positive class images and the negative class images; training the autoencoder based on the positive class images to adjust one or more parameters of the autoencoder; training the autoencoder based on the negative class images to adjust the one or more parameters in an opposite manner to the training based on the positive class images in regard to gradient of an objective function; and reconstructing input visual images based on the one or more parameters, such that reconstructed input visual images include desirable features, and input visual images that are prevented from being reconstructed include undesirable features.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the training based on the negative class images comprises: updating the one or more parameters against the gradient of the objective function.
11. A method for training an image recognition engine implemented by a neural network, the method comprising: preparing from input visual images one or more positive class images and one or more negative class images by segmenting input visual images having at least one pixel into image patches, where the image patches are the positive class images and the negative class images; training the neural network based on the positive class images such that connections used to reconstruct the positive class images are strengthened; training the neural network based on the negative class images such that connections used to reconstruct the negative class images are weakened; and reconstructing input visual images based on the one or more parameters, such that reconstructed input visual images include desirable features, and input visual images that are prevented from being reconstructed include undesirable features.
12. A computer system for training an image recognition engine by executing program instructions, the computer system comprising: a memory tangibly stores the program instructions; and a processor in communications with the memory, wherein the computer system is configured to: preparing from input visual images one or more positive class images and one or more negative class images by segmenting input visual images having at least one pixel into image patches, where the image patches are the positive class images and the negative class images; train an autoencoder based on the positive class images to adjust one or more parameters of the autoencoder so that the positive class images are reconstructed by the autoencoder; train the autoencoder based on the negative class images to adjust the one or more parameters so that the negative class images are prevented from being reconstructed by the autoencoder; and reconstructing input visual images based on the one or more parameters, such that reconstructed input images include desirable features, and input visual images that are prevented from being reconstructed include undesirable features.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the computer system is further configured to: calculate changes in the one or more parameters with gradient of an objective function by using an unsupervised learning algorithm to train based on the negative class images; and update the one or more parameters based on the changes in an opposite manner for the positive class images to train based on the negative class images.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the unsupervised learning algorithm is any one of unsupervised learning algorithms including a contrastive divergence method, a stochastic gradient descent method, a batch gradient descent method, a persistent contrastive divergence method, a Gibbs sampling method or variants thereof.
15. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the computer system is further configured to: repeating iteration for the negative class images before the training based on the positive class images is performed.
16. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the computer system is further configured to: train the autoencoder based on the positive class images and the negative class images alternately; and train the autoencoder trained based on the positive class images at end of the learning for reconstruction.
17. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the autoencoder is a model including at least parameters used for reconstruction or encoding a signal.
18. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the trained autoencoder encodes an input signal similar to any one of the negative class images and decodes it to the closest representation that is similar to the positive class images.
19. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the computer system is provided in a cloud computing environment.
20. A computer program product for training an image recognition engine, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: preparing from input visual images one or more positive class images and one or more negative class images by segmenting input visual images having at least one pixel into image patches, where the image patches are the positive class images and the negative class images; training the autoencoder based on the positive class images to adjust one or more parameters of the autoencoder so that the positive class images are reconstructed by the autoencoder; training the autoencoder based on the negative class images to adjust the one or more parameters so that the negative class images are prevented from being reconstructed by the autoencoder; and reconstructing input visual images based on the one or more parameters, such that reconstructed input images include desirable features, and input visual images that are prevented from being reconstructed include undesirable features.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the training based on the negative class images comprises: calculating changes in the one or more parameters with gradient of an objective function using an unsupervised learning algorithm; and updating the one or more parameters based on the changes in an opposite manner to the training based on the positive class images.
22. The computer program product of claim 21, wherein the unsupervised learning algorithm is any one of unsupervised learning algorithms including a contrastive divergence method, a stochastic gradient descent method, a batch gradient descent method, a persistent contrastive divergence method, a Gibbs sampling method or variants thereof.
23. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein iteration for the training based on the negative class images is repeated before the training based on the positive class images is performed.
24. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the training based on the positive class images and the training based on the negative class images are alternately performed until satisfying a predetermined criterion, and the learning for reconstruction is finished at the training based on the positive class images.
25. The computer program product of claim 20, wherein the autoencoder is a model including at least parameters used for reconstructing or encoding a signal.
</claims>
</document>
