<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/18,G06F16/71,G06F17/30,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06T7/00,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUITIVE SURGICAL OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILLER, BRIAN E.
MOHR, CATHERINE J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57504076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Video content searches in a medical context
</title>

<abstract>
A method of searching video content for specific subject matter of interest augments traditional image data analysis methods with analysis of contemporaneously gathered non-image data. One application involves video recordings of medical procedures performed using a medical device. When a user desires to locate portions of video recordings showing a medical event of interest, one or more medical device system events likely to correspond to the occurrence of the medical event of interest are identified from one or more procedure event logs. Timestamps associated with these system events are used to identify candidate video clips from the procedure video recordings. Image data analysis is performed on the candidate video clips to determine whether each candidate video clip contains the medical event of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising: receiving a user command that includes a user description of a medical procedure event of interest, to locate one or more video clips showing the medical procedure event of interest, that is a portion of a medical procedure performed on a medical system, from one or more medical procedure video recordings of the medical procedure; identifying, from one or more medical system event logs that associate medical system events with user descriptions of medical procedure events, that each is associated with one or more medical procedure video recordings having timestamped frames, that each records occurrences of medical system events, during performance of medical procedures on the medical system, and that each records times of occurrence of medical system events on the medical system, one or more medical system events occurring on the medical system during the medical procedure that correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest; identifying one or more candidate video clips from the one or more medical procedure video recordings having timespans corresponding to timestamps of one or more frames that correspond to the medical procedure of interest and that correspond to one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system events occurring on the medical system; determining, by searching the image data of the one or more candidate video clips for patterns in pixels that are indicative of the medical procedure event of interest, whether each of the one or more candidate video segments is an identified video segment that contains the medical procedure event of interest; and presenting to a user at least one identified video segment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the user command to locate one or more video clips showing a medical event of interest comprises: presenting a plurality of video clips of medical procedure events of interest to choose from via a user interface; receiving a user's selection of one of the presented plurality of video clips of medical procedure events of interest.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a user command to locate one or more video clips showing a medical event of interest comprises receiving the user command intraoperatively while the user is performing a medical procedure.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving a user command to locate one or more video clips showing a medical event of interest comprises receiving the user command preoperatively or postoperatively.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more system events that correspond to the occurrence of the medical event of interest comprises searching a look-up table that records the occurrence of events and the time of occurrence of medical system events on the medical system.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the look-up table is periodically updated automatically to account for associations between medical system events and medical events of interest learned through machine learning.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more medical system events that correspond to the occurrence of the medical event of interest comprises the occurrence of an individual system event.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more medical system events that correspond to the occurrence of the medical event of interest comprises occurrence of two or more system events accordingly to a particular pattern.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more medical system events that correspond to the occurrence of the medical event of interest comprises the occurrence of an individual system event for a prolonged duration.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more candidate video segments for one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system events comprises identifying a video segment of a procedure video recording taking place between two timestamps.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more candidate video segments for one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system events comprises identifying a video segment of a procedure video recording taking place within a time window of a timestamp.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein presenting to the user at least one identified video segment comprises playing to the user the at least one identified video segment on a display.
13. A device for performing a video search, comprising: a user interface; and a processing unit operatively coupled to the user interface, the processing unit including one or more processors, wherein the processing unit is configured to: receiving, via the user interface, a user command that includes a user description of a medical procedure event of interest, to locate one or more video clips showing a medical procedure event of interest, that is a portion of a medical procedure performed on a medical system, from one or more medical procedure video recordings of the medical procedure; identifying, from one or more medical system event logs that associate medical system events with user descriptions of medical procedure events, that each is associated with one or more medical procedure video recordings having timestamped frames, that each records occurrences of medical system events, during performance of medical procedures on the medical system, and that each records times of occurrence of medical system events on the medical system, one or more medical system events occurring on the medical system during the medical procedure that correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest; identifying one or more candidate video clips from the one or more medical procedure video recordings having timespans corresponding to timestamps of one or more frames that correspond to the medical procedure of interest and that correspond to one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system events occurring on the medical system; determining, by searching the image data of the one or more candidate video clips for patterns in pixels that are indicative of the medical procedure event of interest, whether each of the one or more candidate video segments is an identified video segment that contains the medical procedure event of interest; and presenting to a user at least one identified video segment.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the user interface comprises a user interface of a personal computing device.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the user interface comprises a user interface of a teleoperated surgical system.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein receiving the user command to locate one or more video clips showing a medical procedure event of interest comprises: presenting a plurality of video clips of medical procedure events of interest to choose from via a user interface; receiving a user's selection of one of the presented plurality of medical procedure events of interest.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein identifying one or more medical system events that correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest comprises searching a look-up table that records the occurrence of events and the time of occurrence of medical system events on the medical system.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the look-up table is periodically updated automatically to account for associations between medical system events and medical procedure events of interest learned through machine learning.
19. The device of claim 13, wherein the one or more medical system events likely to correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest comprises the occurrence of an individual medical system event.
20. The device of claim 13, wherein the one or more medical system events likely to correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest comprises occurrence of two or more system events accordingly to a particular pattern.
21. The device of claim 13, wherein the one or more medical system events likely to correspond to the occurrence of the medical procedure event of interest comprises the occurrence of an individual medical system event for a prolonged duration.
22. The device of claim 13, wherein identifying one or more candidate video segments for one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system events comprises identifying a video segment of a medical procedure video recording taking place between two timestamps.
23. The device of claim 13, wherein identifying one or more candidate video segments for one or more timestamps corresponding to each of the one or more identified medical system system events comprises identifying a video segment of a medical procedure video recording taking place within a time window of a timestamp.
24. The device of claim 13, wherein presenting to the user at least one identified video segment comprises playing to the user the at least one identified video segment on a display.
</claims>
</document>
