<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/00,G06F3/06,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H03M7/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLAETTLER, TOBIAS
MITTELHOLZER, THOMAS
PARNELL, THOMAS
POZIDIS, CHARALAMPOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63521215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Building a context model ensemble in a context mixing compressor
</title>

<abstract>
A technique for selecting context models (CMs) for a CM ensemble (CME) in a context mixing compressor includes measuring compression ratios (CRs) of the compressor on a dataset for each CM included in a base set of CMs. A first CM that has a maximum CR for the dataset is added to the CME. In response to a desired number of the CMs not being in the CME, subsequent CRs for the compressor are measured on the dataset for each of the CMs in the base set of CMs that are not in the CME in conjunction with one or more CMs in the CME. In response to a desired number of the CMs not being in the CME, subsequent CMs that in conjunction with the one or more CMs in the CME result in a maximum subsequent CR for the dataset are added to the CME.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of adding context models to a context model ensemble in a context mixing compressor of a data storage system, the method comprising: for each context model among more than two different context models included in a base set of context models, measuring, by a controller, a respective individual compression ratio (CR) of a context mixing compressor obtained by utilizing said each context model alone on a common dataset; based on the measuring of the respective individual CRs, adding to a context model ensemble, by the controller, a first context model within the base set of context models that has a maximum measured CR when utilized alone to compress the common dataset; following addition of the first context model to the context model ensemble and based on a desired number of distinct context models not being in the context model ensemble, said desired number being at least two: measuring, by the controller, a respective CR for the context mixing compressor on the common dataset for each of the context models in the base set of context models that is not in the context model ensemble as utilized in conjunction with one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble; and adding to the context model ensemble, by the controller, one or more additional context models, in the base set of context models, that, utilized in conjunction with the one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble, result in a maximum CR for the common dataset, wherein the adding the one or more additional context models is performed until the context model ensemble has increased to the desired number of distinct context models, and wherein limiting a size of the context model ensemble to the desired number of context models increases throughput while only marginally reducing the maximum subsequent CR that is achieved by the data storage system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the context mixing compressor is a nonbinary context mixing compressor configured to compress datasets employing symbols belonging to an alphabet of size greater than two.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the context mixing compressor is a binary context mixing compressor.
4. The method of claim 1, and further comprising determining the desired number of the context models based on achieving a desired minimum CR.
5. The method of claim 1, and further comprising determining the desired number of the context models based on achieving a desired minimum throughput.
6. The method of claim 1, and further comprising determining the desired number of the context models based on achieving a desired minimum CR and desired minimum throughput.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the common dataset is associated with a customer workload.
8. A data storage system, comprising: a flash memory system; and a flash controller coupled to the flash memory system, wherein the flash controller includes a context mixing compressor and the flash controller is configured to perform: for each context model among more than two different context models included in a base set of context models, measuring respective individual compression ratios (CR) of the context mixing compressor obtained by utilizing said each context model alone on a common dataset; based on the measuring of the respective individual CRs, adding to a context model ensemble a first context model within the base set of context models that has a maximum measured CR when utilized alone to compress the common dataset; following addition of the first context model to the context model ensemble and based on a desired number of distinct context models not being in the context model ensemble, measuring a respective CR for the context mixing compressor on the common dataset for each of the context models in the base set of context models that is not in the context model ensemble as utilized in conjunction with one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble; and adding to the context model ensemble one or more additional context models, in the base set of context models, that utilized in conjunction with the one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble result in a maximum CR for the common dataset, wherein the adding the one or more additional context models is performed until the context model ensemble has increased to the desired number of distinct context models, and wherein limiting a size of the context model ensemble to the desired number of context models increases throughput while only marginally reducing the maximum subsequent CR that is achieved by the data storage system.
9. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the context mixing compressor is a non-binary context mixing compressor configured to compress datasets employing symbols belonging to an alphabet of size greater than two.
10. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the context mixing compressor is a binary context mixing compressor.
11. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum CR.
12. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum throughput.
13. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum CR and desired minimum throughput.
14. The data storage system of claim 8, wherein the dataset is associated with a customer workload.
15. A computer program product, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a controller of a data storage system, to cause the controller to perform: for each context model among more than two different context models included in a base set of context models, measuring respective individual compression ratios (CR) of the context mixing compressor obtained by utilizing said each context model alone on a common dataset; based on the measuring of the respective individual CRs, adding to a context model ensemble a first context model within the base set of context models that has a maximum measured CR when utilized alone to compress the common dataset; following addition of the first context model to the context model ensemble and based on a desired number of distinct context models not being in the context model ensemble, measuring a respective CR for the context mixing compressor on the common dataset for each of the context models in the base set of context models that is not in the context model ensemble as utilized in conjunction with one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble; and adding to the context model ensemble one or more additional context models, in the base set of context models, that utilized in conjunction with the one or more context models already added to the context model ensemble result in a maximum CR for the common dataset, wherein the adding the one or more additional context models is performed until the context model ensemble has increased to the desired number of distinct context models, and wherein limiting a size of the context model ensemble to the desired number of context models increases throughput while only marginally reducing the maximum subsequent CR that is achieved by the data storage system.
16. The program product of claim 15, wherein the context mixing compressor is a non-binary context mixing compressor configured to compress datasets employing symbols belonging to an alphabet of size greater than two.
17. The program product of claim 15, wherein the context mixing compressor is a binary context mixing compressor.
18. The program product of claim 15, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum CR.
19. The program product of claim 15, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum throughput.
20. The program product of claim 15, wherein the desired number of the context models is determined based on achieving a desired minimum CR and desired minimum throughput.
</claims>
</document>
