<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/24,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0485,G06F40/166,G06F40/194,G06F40/197
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FITZGIBBON, ANDREW
SMYTH, SAMUEL, GAVIN
LINDLEY, SIÂN ELIZABETH
LUGER, EWA
ARMSTRONG, MICHAEL WILLIAM
BANKS, RICHARD MALCOLM
FLETCHER VANE, OLIVIA EVELYN MARY
SARKAR, ADVAIT
EDGE, DARREN KEITH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59349778
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing electronic documents
</title>

<abstract>
This disclose relates to computer-implemented management of an electronic slide deck, the electronic slide deck containing a set of slides to be presented individually. The computer system processes the slides of the electronic slide deck to autonomously group the slides into a plurality of groups, the autonomous grouping being performed by identifying the slides in each of the groups as having related content, generates in association with the electronic slide deck, grouping data in electronic storage accessible to the computer system, the grouping data denoting the identified groups of slides, and controls a user interface based on the stored grouping data to convey, to a user, information relating to at least one of the identified groups of slides.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system editing a first electronic document by reusing content components from at least a second electronic document, the first and second electronic documents containing a set of content components, the computer system comprising: computer storage configured to hold executable instructions: and at least one processor coupled to the computer storage, the executable instructions being configured when executed on the at least one processor to implement operations comprising: controlling a user interface to display the first electronic document comprising a plurality of display elements in a first view: processing the set of content components of the second electronic document so as to identify one or more groups of content components, by identifying the content components in each group as having related content; controlling the user interface to display the second electronic document comprising a plurality of display elements in the first view, wherein at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document represents a group of content components, and wherein at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document represents an individual content component: selecting the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components: incorporating the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components into the first electronic document: and controlling the user interface to display the first electronic document, incorporating the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components, and the second electronic document comprising the plurality of display elements in the first view; wherein the first view is a filmstrip view, and wherein the at least one of the display element is a film segment of a filmstrip.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein a display element that represents a group of content components is represented as a unitary segment and comprises content that the at least one processor determined to have related content.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein the selecting comprises dragging and dropping a unitary segment of the second electronic document into an editing area of the user interface that edits the first electronic document.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the incorporating comprises editing the first electronic document to include the dragged and dropped unitary segment.
5. The computer system of claim 1 further comprising: based on a display element of the second electronic document being inserted into the first electronic document, automatically styling the display element to match the first electronic document.
6. The computer system of claim 1, the at least one processor further implementing operations comprising: processing a set of content components of additional electronic documents so as to identify one or more groups of content components, by identifying the content components in each group as having related content; controlling the user interface to display the additional electronic documents comprising a plurality of display elements in the first view; and incorporating the at least one of the display elements of the additional electronic documents into the first electronic document.
7. A computer-implemented method of editing a first electronic document by reusing content components from at least a second electronic document, the first and second electronic documents containing a set of content components, the method comprising implementing, by a computer system, the following: controlling a user interface to display the first electronic document comprising a plurality of film segments in a filmstrip view; processing the set of content components of the second electronic document so as to identify one or more groups of content components, by identifying the content components in each group as having related content; controlling the user interface to display the second electronic document comprising a plurality of film segments in the filmstrip view, wherein at least one of the film segments of the second electronic document represents a group of content components, and wherein at least one of the film segments of the second electronic document represents an individual content component; selecting the at least one of the film segments of the second electronic document representing the group of content components; incorporating the at least one of the film segments of the second electronic document representing the group of content components into the first electronic document; and controlling the user interface to display the first electronic document, incorporating the at least one of the film segments of the second electronic document representing the group of content components, and the second electronic document comprising the plurality of film segments in the filmstrip view.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein at least the first electronic document and the second electronic document are displayed simultaneously.
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein a notification indicates that a film segment of the second electronic document represents one or more slides grouped into a unitary filmstrip segment.
10. The method according to claim 7, wherein for each of the film segments in the set of content components, the computer system assigns a match score to that film segment with respect to at least one other of the film segments in the set of content components, wherein the film segments are identified as having related content by comparing their match scores with a similarity threshold.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein a match score is assigned to each film segment with respect to every other film segment in the set of content components.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein the computer system determines the match score by comparing a limited portion of content of the film segment with a corresponding limited portion of content of the other film segment, wherein the match score is independent of the remaining content of those film segments.
13. The method according to claim 7, wherein the film segments are identified as having related visual content using visual matching.
14. The method according to claim 7, wherein the film segments are identified as having related text content using text matching.
15. The method according to claim 7, wherein the film segments identified as having related content using structure information in the filmstrip view.
16. The method according to claim 7, wherein the film segments are identified as having related content by performing a cross-filmstrip comparison of those film segments with film segments in one or more other filmstrips.
17. The method according to claim 7, wherein the film segments are identified as having related content by a trained model which has been trained according to film segment grouping inputs from a user, the model having been trained using supervised learning, unsupervised learning or a combination of both.
18. A system that edits a first electronic document by reusing content components from at least a second electronic document, the first and second electronic documents containing a set of content components, the system comprising: at least one computer storage: and at least one processor coupled to the at least one computer storage, the at least one processor operable to: control a user interface to display the first electronic document comprising a plurality of display elements in a first view, process the set of content components of the second electronic document so as to identify one or more groups of content components, by identifying the content components in each group as having related content, control the user interface to display the second electronic document comprising a plurality of display elements in the first view, wherein at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document represents a group of content components, and wherein at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document represents an individual content component, select the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components, incorporate the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components into the first electronic document, and control the user interface to display the first electronic document, incorporating the at least one of the display elements of the second electronic document representing the group of content components, and the second electronic document comprising the plurality of display elements in the first view; wherein the first view is a filmstrip view, and wherein the at least one of the display element is a film segment of a filmstrip.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one processor to is further operable to control the user interface to display a representation of an electronic slide deck, the representation being formed of a plurality of display elements, each of the display elements representing a slide of the slide deck, wherein at least two of those display elements represent individual slides in the identified group, wherein in response to a user input via the user interface, the at least one processor is further operable to modify the representation of the electronic slide deck so as to represent all of the slides in the identified group by a single display element instead.
</claims>
</document>
