<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B79/00,A01D41/127,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06Q10/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLIMATE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREJKO, ERIK
GUAN, WEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62906972
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Crop yield estimation using agronomic neural network
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and method for computing yield values through a neural network from a plurality of different data inputs are disclosed. In an embodiment, a server computer system receives a particular dataset relating to one or more agricultural fields wherein the particular data set comprises particular crop identification data, particular environmental data, and particular management practice data. Using a first neural network, the server computer system computes a crop identification effect on crop yield from the particular crop identification data. Using a second neural network, the server computer system computes an environmental effect on crop yield from the particular environmental data. Using a third neural network, the server computer system computes a management practice effect on crop yield from the management practice data. Using a master neural network, the server computer system computes one or more predicted yield values from the crop identification effect on crop yield, the environmental effect on crop yield, and the management practice effect on crop yield.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a server computing system, a particular dataset relating to one or more agricultural fields, wherein the particular dataset comprises particular crop identification data, particular environmental data, one or more particular past yield maps of the one or more agricultural fields, and particular management practice data; using a first neural network configured using crop identification data as input and crop yield data as output, computing a crop identification effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular crop identification data; using a second neural network configured using environmental data as input and crop yield data as output, computing an environmental effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular environmental data; using a third neural network configured using management practice data as input and crop yield data as output, computing a management practice effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular management practice data; using a fourth neural network configured using past yield maps as input and crop yield data as output, computing a particular past yield effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the one or more particular past yield maps; using a master neural network configured using crop identification effects on crop yield, environmental effects on crop yield, past yield effect on crop yield, and management practice effects on crop yield as input and crop yield data as output, computing one or more predicted yield values for the one or more agricultural fields from the crop identification effect on crop yield, the environmental effect on crop yield, the particular past yield effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields, and the management practice effect on crop yield.
2. The method of claim 1: wherein the particular crop identification data comprises one or more genome sequences for one or more crops corresponding to the particular dataset; wherein the first neural network comprises a recurrent neural network configured to identify portions of the genome sequences that are correlated to effects on crop yield data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the recurrent neural network is a long short-term memory neural network.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the recurrent neural network is a gated recurrent units neural network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predicted yield values comprises one or more of a risk adjusted yield value, a total profits value, or a crop quality value.
6. The method of claim 1: wherein the particular environmental data comprises one or more time series of predicted weather events and one or more spatial maps of soil properties; wherein the second neural network comprises a recurrent neural network for weather events and a convolution neural network for soil properties; wherein computing the environmental effect on crop yield comprises generating a learned environmental embedding using the recurrent neural network for the weather events and the convolution neural network for the soil properties.
7. The method of claim 1: wherein the particular dataset further comprises one or more particular satellite images of the one or more agricultural fields at particular periods of a growing season; wherein the method further comprises: using a fifth neural network configured using satellite images of fields at particular periods of the growing season as input and crop yield data as output, computing a particular satellite image effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the one or more particular satellite images; wherein the master neural network is further configured to use satellite image effect on crop yield as input; wherein the one or more predicted yield values are further computed from the particular satellite image effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields.
8. A system comprising: a memory; a first neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute a crop identification effect on crop yield using crop identification data as input; a second neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute an environmental effect on crop yield using environmental data as input; a third neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute a management practice effect on crop yield using management practice data as input; a fourth neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute a past yield map effect on crop yield using past yield maps as input; a master neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute one or more yield values using the crop identification effect on crop yield, the environmental effect on crop yield, past yield effect on crop yield, and the management practice effect on crop yield as inputs; one or more processors communicatively coupled to the memory, configured to execute one or more instructions to cause performance of: receiving a particular dataset relating to one or more agricultural fields, wherein the particular dataset comprises particular crop identification data, particular environmental data, one or more particular past yield maps of the one or more agricultural fields, and particular management practice data; using the first neural network, computing a particular crop identification effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular crop identification data; using the second neural network, computing a particular environmental effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular environmental data; using the third neural network, computing a particular management practice effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular management practice data; using the fourth neural network, computing a particular past yield effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the one or more particular past yield maps; using the master neural network, computing one or more predicted yield values for the one or more agricultural fields from the particular crop identification effect on crop yield, the particular past yield effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields, the particular environmental effect on crop yield, and the particular management practice effect on crop yield.
9. The system of claim 8: wherein the particular crop identification data comprises one or more genome sequences for one or more crops corresponding to the particular dataset; wherein the first neural network comprises a recurrent neural network configured to identify portions of the genome sequences that are correlated to effects on crop yield data.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the recurrent neural network is a long short-term memory neural network.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the recurrent neural network is a gated recurrent units neural network.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more predicted yield values comprises one or more of a risk adjusted yield value, a total profits value, or a crop quality value.
13. The system of claim 8: wherein the particular environmental data comprises one or more time series of predicted weather events and one or more spatial maps of soil properties; wherein the second neural network comprises a recurrent neural network for weather events and a convolution neural network for soil properties; wherein the second neural network is further configured to compute the environmental effect on crop yield by generating a learned environmental embedding using the recurrent neural network for the weather events and the convolution neural network for the soil properties.
14. The system of claim 8, further comprising: a fifth neural network stored in the memory, configured to compute a satellite effect on crop yield using satellite images as input; wherein the particular dataset further comprises one or more particular satellite images of the one or more agricultural fields at particular periods of a growing season; wherein the one or more processors are further configured to execute one or more instructions to cause performance of: using the fifth neural network, computing a particular satellite image effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields from the one or more particular satellite images; wherein the master neural network is further configured to use satellite image effect on crop yield as input; wherein the one or more predicted yield values are further computed from the particular satellite image effect on crop yield for the one or more agricultural fields.
</claims>
</document>
