<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (USAA)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRASAD, BHARAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71611841
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Operational monitoring of network devices
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for managing risk in a network that includes one or more Internet-of-Things (IoT) devices. Management module(s) may operate to determine a model for an IoT in a home, office, or other environment, the model describing typical operations of the device(s) that are connected over an IoT. The operations of the IoT devices may be monitored for compliance with the model. The management module(s) may detect instances when one or more IoT devices exhibit behaviors that are a deviation from the normal operations indicated in the model, such as device failures. A policy may operate (e.g., as a smart contract) to transfer value to a user account in response to detecting an operational deviation of IoT device(s).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method performed by at least one processor, the method comprising: receiving, by the at least one processor, a plurality of communications sent from a plurality of internet-of-things (IoT) devices on a network, each communication describing operations of a respective IoT device; determining, by the at least one processor, based on the plurality of communications, a model of an operational state for at least one of the plurality of IoT devices; detecting, by the at least one processor, an operational deviation of the at least one IoT device compared to the model and, in response, determining a cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device; providing, by the at least one processor, a policy indicating the cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device and value to be transferred in response to the operational deviation; transmitting, by the at least one processor, a signal to transfer the value to an account that is associated with the IoT devices, the value being at least a portion of the cost of the operational deviation; detecting, by the at least one processor, the presence of a new IoT device added to the network; modifying, by the at least one processor, the model based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network; and modifying, by the at least one processor, the policy based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the model is stored on a blockchain; the model describes a typical operational state of each of the plurality of IoT devices on the network; the blockchain further stores account information that identifies the account; and transferring value to the account further comprises determining the account based on the account information stored on the blockchain.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the blockchain further includes a smart contract that transfers the value to the account in response to detecting the operational deviation and determining the cost.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing, by the at least one processor, a policy indicating the cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device and the value to be transferred in response to the operational deviation.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the policy is implemented by a smart contract that transfers the value to the account in response to detecting the operational deviation and determining the cost.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of IoT devices is a telematics device that collects data regarding a vehicle.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the value is a replacement cost to replace the at least one IoT device that exhibited the operational deviation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the operational deviation further comprises determining that the operational deviation is exhibited by at least a threshold number or a threshold proportion of the plurality of IoT devices on the network.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein different ones of the plurality of IoT devices on the network support different communication protocols.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein different ones of the plurality of IoT devices on the network output data in different formats.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor, the memory storing instructions which, when executed, cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of communications sent from a plurality of internet-of-things (IoT) devices on a network, each communication describing operations of a respective IoT device; determining, based on the plurality of communications, a model of an operational state for at least one of the plurality of IoT devices; detecting an operational deviation of the at least one IoT device compared to the model and, in response, determining a cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device; providing a policy indicating the cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device and the value to be transferred in response to the operational deviation; transmitting a signal to transfer value to an account that is associated with the IoT devices, the value being at least a portion of the cost of the operational deviation; detecting the presence of a new IoT device added to the network; modifying the model based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network; and modifying the policy based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the model is stored on a blockchain; the model describes a typical operational state of each of the plurality of IoT devices on the network; the blockchain further stores account information that identifies the account; and transferring value to the account further comprises determining the account based on the account information stored on the blockchain.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the blockchain further includes a smart contract that transfers the value to the account in response to detecting the operational deviation and determining the cost.
14. The system of claim 11, the operations further comprising: receiving, by the at least one processor, an indication of at least one payment provided to maintain the policy.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the policy is implemented by a smart contract that transfers the value to the account in response to detecting the operational deviation and determining the cost.
16. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions which, when executed, cause at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of communications sent from a plurality of internet-of-things (IoT) devices on a network, each communication describing operations of a respective IoT device; determining, based on the plurality of communications, a model of an operational state for at least one of the plurality of IoT devices; detecting an operational deviation of the at least one IoT device compared to the model and, in response, determining a cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device; providing a policy indicating the cost of the operational deviation of the at least one IoT device and value to be transferred in response to the operational deviation; transmitting a signal to transfer value to an account that is associated with the IoT devices, the value being at least a portion of the cost of the operational deviation; detecting the presence of a new IoT device added to the network; modifying the model based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network; and modifying the policy based on the presence of the new IoT device on the network.
</claims>
</document>
