<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W12/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
MERMOUD, GRÉGORY
SAVALLE, PIERRE-ANDRÉ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65719572
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cross-organizational network diagnostics with privacy awareness
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a service identifies a performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network. The service forms a set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device associated with the identified performance issue. The service generates a mapping between the set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device to one or more time series of one or more characteristics of a second device in a second network. The mapping comprises a relevancy score that quantifies a degree of similarity between the characteristics of the first and second devices. The service determines a likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score. The service provides an indication of the determined likelihood to a user interface associated with the second network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying, by a service, a performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network; forming, by the service, a set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device associated with the identified performance issue; generating, by the service, a mapping between the set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device to one or more time series of one or more characteristics of a second device in a second network, wherein the mapping comprises a relevancy score that quantifies a degree of similarity between the characteristics of the first and second devices, wherein the characteristics are indicative of one or more of: hardware information, software information, or network topology information associated with the first and second devices; determining, by the service, a likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue exhibited by the first device based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score for the mapping; and providing, by the service, an indication of the determined likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue to a user interface associated with the second network.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics of the first and second devices comprise at least one of: a model, operating system (OS) version, typical client load, or throughput load of the first and second devices.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein identifying the performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network comprises: applying, by the service, a machine learning-based anomaly detector to the one or more characteristics of the first device, to detect the performance issue.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein identifying the performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network comprises: receiving, at the service, an indication of the performance issue from a user interface.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the service, feedback from the user interface regarding the provided indication of the determined likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue; and using, by the service, reinforcement learning on the feedback, to adjust when indications are provided to the user interface of devices in the second network potentially exhibiting performance issues.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein determining the likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue exhibited by the first device based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score for the mapping comprises: generating one or more feature vectors based on the one or more time series of characteristics of the first device in the first network; generating one or more feature vectors based on the one or more time series of characteristics of the second device in the second network; and determining a feature vector distance between the feature vectors for the first and second devices, wherein the relevancy score is based on the determined feature vector distance.
7. The method as in claim 1, wherein the second device is a wireless access point in the second network, and wherein the one or more characteristics of the second device comprises a characteristic of a wireless controller that controls the second device.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: anonymizing, by the service, the one or more characteristics of the first device.
9. The method as in claim 8, further comprising: determining, by the service, a privacy indicator for the performance issue indicative of whether an organization associated with the first network would be identifiable from the performance issue.
10. The method as in claim 9, wherein anonymizing the characteristics of the first and second devices used to form the time series comprises: altering, by the service, a period of time associated with the one or more time series for the first device or the one or more characteristics of the first device.
11. An apparatus comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: identify a performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network; form a set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device associated with the identified performance issue; generate a mapping between the set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device to one or more time series of one or more characteristics of a second device in a second network, wherein the mapping comprises a relevancy score that quantifies a degree of similarity between the characteristics of the first and second devices, wherein the characteristics are indicative of one or more of: hardware information, software information, or network topology information associated with the first and second devices; determine a likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue exhibited by the first device based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score for the mapping; and provide an indication of the determined likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue to a user interface associated with the second network.
12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the one or more characteristics of the first and second devices comprise at least one of: a model, operating system (OS) version, typical client load, or throughput load of the first and second devices.
13. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus identifies the performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network by: applying a machine learning-based anomaly detector to the one or more characteristics of the first device, to detect the performance issue.
14. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus identifies the performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network by: receiving an indication of the performance issue from a user interface.
15. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: receive feedback from the user interface regarding the provided indication of the determined likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue; and use reinforcement learning on the feedback, to adjust when indications are provided to the user interface of devices in the second network potentially exhibiting performance issues.
16. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus determines the likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue exhibited by the first device based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score for the mapping by: generating one or more feature vectors based on the one or more time series of characteristics of the first device in the first network; generating one or more feature vectors based on the one or more time series of characteristics of the second device in the second network; and determining a feature vector distance between the feature vectors for the first and second devices, wherein the relevancy score is based on the determined feature vector distance.
17. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the second device is a wireless access point in the second network, and wherein the one or more characteristics of the second device comprises a characteristic of a wireless controller that controls the second device.
18. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: anonymize the one or more characteristics of the first device; and determine a privacy indicator for the performance issue indicative of whether an organization associated with the first network would be identifiable from the performance issue.
19. The apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the apparatus anonymizes the characteristics of the first and second devices used to form the time series by: altering a period of time associated with the one or more time series for the first device or the one or more characteristics of the first device.
20. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a server to execute a process comprising: identifying a performance issue exhibited by a first device in a first network; forming a set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device associated with the identified performance issue; generating a mapping between the set of one or more time series of one or more characteristics of the first device to one or more time series of one or more characteristics of a second device in a second network, wherein the mapping comprises a relevancy score that quantifies a degree of similarity between the characteristics of the first and second devices, wherein the characteristics are indicative of one or more of: hardware information, software information, or network topology information associated with the first and second devices; determining a likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue exhibited by the first device based on the generated mapping and on the relevancy score for the mapping; and providing an indication of the determined likelihood of the second device exhibiting the performance issue to a user interface associated with the second network.
</claims>
</document>
