<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L27/30,H01M10/44,H01M10/46,H01M16/00,H01M4/36,H01M8/04082,H01M8/0606,H01M8/18,H01M8/2455,H02J7/35,H02S40/38
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
INNES, TIMOTHY
SAKHI, HIFZA
MARLOW, ELIZABETH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68463351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods, devices and systems for providing power to a linear amplifier
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a redox battery system comprising a three dimensional array of a plurality of nano-batteries and a hydrogen power system comprising a nano-array of hydrogen paper, a heat source and a water source, wherein the hydrogen paper attracts hydrogen from the water source. Further embodiments can include a solar power system comprising an array of a plurality of nano-solar cells and an ionic diode power system comprising two electrodes separated by a polycarbonate membrane, two borophene electric charge capture devices, and a capacitor stack. Additional embodiment can include a power supply controller providing power to a linear amplifier using the redox battery system and causing recharging of the redox battery system utilizing the hydrogen power system, the solar power system, the ionic diode power system, or a combination thereof, to provide charge to the redox battery system. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a redox battery system, wherein the redox battery system comprises a three dimensional array of a plurality of nano-batteries; a hydrogen power system, wherein the hydrogen power system comprises a nano-array of hydrogen paper, a heat source and a water source, wherein the hydrogen paper is configured to attract hydrogen from the water source; a solar power system, wherein the solar power system comprises an array of a plurality of nano-solar cells; an ionic diode power system, wherein the ionic diode power system comprises two electrodes separated by a polycarbonate membrane, two borophene electric charge capture devices, and a capacitor stack; a power supply controller comprising a processing system including a processor, and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: providing power to a linear amplifier using the redox battery system; and causing recharging of the redox battery system utilizing at least one of the hydrogen power system, the solar power system, or the ionic diode power system to provide charge to the redox battery system.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of nano-batteries comprises an anode and a cathode separated by a membrane, wherein each anode of each of the plurality of nano-batteries receives an anolyte from a first reservoir, wherein each cathode of each of the plurality of nano-batteries receives a catholyte from a second reservoir.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the anolyte comprises pyridinium.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the catholyte comprises iodide.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the charge is generated in response to the hydrogen being captured from the hydrogen paper in response to the heat source being activated and applied to the hydrogen paper.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein each cell of the nano-array of hydrogen paper comprises a nanoplate catalyst that provides the hydrogen to a hydrogen collector.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the hydrogen collector provides the hydrogen to each of a plurality of anode-cathode pairs, wherein a portion of the charge is collected from at least one of the plurality of anode-cathode pairs.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of nano-solar cells comprise a Perovskite solar cell resulting in a plurality of Perovskite solar cells.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of Perovskite solar cells is coupled to a riser resulting in a plurality of risers, wherein adjusting a riser of the plurality of risers adjusts an orientation of the Perovskite solar cell of the plurality of Perovskite solar cells.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the adjusting of the riser of the plurality of risers comprises adjusting the riser of the plurality of risers in response to determining a time of day.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the adjusting of the riser of the plurality of risers comprises adjusting the riser of the plurality of risers in response to determining a change in orientation of sunlight.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein each Perovskite solar cell of the plurality of Perovskite solar cells is coupled to a charge collector resulting in a plurality of charge collectors, wherein a portion of the charge is collected from at least one of the plurality of charge collectors.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of Perovskite solar cells are arranged in a two dimensional array on a semiconductor, wherein each of the plurality of Perovskite solar cells captures ambient heat to heat a first side of the semiconductor.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein a portion of the charge is collected from the semiconductor.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the charge is collected from ion flow between the two electrodes through the polycarbonate membrane by the two borophene electric charge devices.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the portion of the charge is stored in the capacitor stack.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the portion of the charge is provided by the capacitor stack in response to discharging the capacitor stack.
18. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: monitoring charge of a redox battery system; detecting the charge is below a predetermined threshold based on the monitoring; detecting an amount of hydrogen on a portion of hydrogen paper in a hydrogen power system; determining an amount of sunlight according to a plurality of sensors, wherein a solar power system comprises the plurality of sensors; and causing recharging of the redox battery system according to the amount of hydrogen and amount of sunlight, wherein the recharging of the redox battery system is performed by utilizing at least one of the hydrogen power system, the solar power system, or an ionic diode power system.
19. A method, comprising: detecting, by a processing system including a processor, an amount of hydrogen on a portion of hydrogen paper in a hydrogen power system; determining, by the processing system, an amount of sunlight according to a plurality of sensors, wherein a solar power system comprises the plurality of sensors; and causing, by the processing system, recharging of a redox battery system according to the amount of hydrogen and amount of sunlight in response to detecting that a charge of the redox battery system is below a predetermined threshold, wherein the recharging of the redox battery system is performed by utilizing at least one of the hydrogen power system, the solar power system, or an ionic diode power system.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the solar power system comprises an array of a plurality nano-Perovskite solar cells, wherein each of the nano-Perovskite solar cells are coupled to a riser resulting in a plurality of risers, wherein adjusting each riser of the plurality of risers adjusts an orientation of each nano-Perovskite solar cell, wherein the adjusting of each riser is in response to a sensor from the plurality of sensors detecting a change in an orientation of the sunlight.
</claims>
</document>
