<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/205,G06F40/279,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00,G06T13/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRANTNER, TIMOTHY
FOX, JEREMY R.
HEWITT, TRUDY L.
JENKINS, JANA H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69228759
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic configuration of document portions via machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described relating to dynamic document portion configuration via machine learning. An associated method includes facilitating parsing of a document to identify a plurality of document portions based upon contextual evaluation. The method further includes mining data associated with a client to determine at least one client objective associated with the document and applying at least one artificial intelligence technique of a machine learning knowledge model to the mined data in order to assign a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions that indicates relevance of the document portion to the at least one client objective. The method further includes identifying a set of document portions among the plurality of document portions having respective confidence scores that exceed a predefined confidence score threshold, and, responsive to the client accessing the document via a user interface of a computing system, configuring the set of document portions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: facilitating parsing of a document, via a natural language processing application, to identify a plurality of document portions based upon contextual evaluation; mining data associated with a client to determine at least one client objective associated with the document; applying at least one artificial intelligence technique of a machine learning knowledge model to the mined data in order to assign a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions that indicates relevance of the document portion to the at least one client objective; identifying a set of document portions among the plurality of document portions having respective confidence scores that exceed a predefined confidence score threshold; and responsive to the client accessing the document via a user interface of a computing system, configuring the set of document portions by: initiating passive monitoring of the set of document portions; determining, based at least in part upon the passive monitoring, at least one modification made to one or more of the set of document portions; and dynamically removing data from at least one document portion among the set of document portions upon determining that the at least one modification affects congruency of the at least one document portion with respect to the set of document portions.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to the client exiting the document via the user interface, updating a knowledge base of the machine learning knowledge model based upon activity of the client.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of document portions includes noncontiguous sections.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein assigning a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions comprises considering predefined criteria.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein mining data associated with the client comprises: analyzing historical data associated with the client to identify data pertaining to any historical contextual relationship between the client and one or more topics identified within the document; analyzing current profile data associated with the client to identify data pertaining to any current contextual relationship between the client and the one or more topics identified within the document; analyzing the current profile data associated with the client to identify data pertaining to any potential interest of the client with respect to the document; and applying at least one data mining technique to the identified data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein applying at least one data mining technique to the identified data comprises: applying at least one data mining algorithm or heuristic via the machine learning knowledge model to associate the identified data with at least one potential client objective; and identifying any potential client objective among the at least one potential client objective that exceeds a predefined client objective threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein configuring the set of document portions further comprises determining access control with respect to one or more of the set of document portions, and wherein the passive monitoring of the set of document portions is granular with respect to one or more of the set of document portions.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein configuring the set of document portions further comprises, responsive to detecting the at least one modification, creating metadata with respect to the at least one modification.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the metadata includes tracking information regarding each of the at least one modification, and wherein the tracking information includes at least one aspect selected from the group consisting of modification author, modification timestamp, modification description, and cumulative modification history.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein configuring the set of document portions further comprises facilitating display of at least one visual overlay reflecting the at least one modification in the user interface.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein facilitating display of the at least one visual overlay comprises creating at least one animation reflecting any modification among the at least one modification made within a predefined time period.
12. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: facilitate parsing of a document, via a natural language processing application, to identify a plurality of document portions based upon contextual evaluation; mine data associated with a client to determine at least one client objective associated with the document; apply at least one artificial intelligence technique of a machine learning knowledge model to the mined data in order to assign a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions that indicates relevance of the document portion to the at least one client objective; identify a set of document portions among the plurality of document portions having respective confidence scores that exceed a predefined confidence score threshold; and responsive to the client accessing the document via a user interface of a computing system, configure the set of document portions by: initiating passive monitoring of the set of document portions; determining, based at least in part upon the passive monitoring, at least one modification made to one or more of the set of document portions; and dynamically removing data from at least one document portion among the set of document portions upon determining that the at least one modification affects congruency of the at least one document portion with respect to the set of document portions.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein the program instructions further cause the computing device to: responsive to the client exiting the document via the user interface, update a knowledge base of the machine learning knowledge model based upon activity of the client.
14. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein at least one of the plurality of document portions includes noncontiguous sections.
15. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein assigning a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions comprises considering predefined criteria.
16. The computer program product of claim 12, wherein configuring the set of document portions further comprises determining access control with respect to one or more of the set of document portions, and wherein the passive monitoring of the set of document portions is granular with respect to one or more of the set of document portions.
17. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory storing an application program, which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation comprising: facilitating parsing of a document, via a natural language processing application, to identify a plurality of document portions based upon contextual evaluation; mining data associated with a client to determine at least one client objective associated with the document; applying at least one artificial intelligence technique of a machine learning knowledge model to the mined data in order to assign a confidence score to each of the plurality of document portions that indicates relevance of the document portion to the at least one client objective; identifying a set of document portions among the plurality of document portions having respective confidence scores that exceed a predefined confidence score threshold; and responsive to the client accessing the document via a user interface of a computing system, configuring the set of document portions by: initiating passive monitoring of the set of document portions; determining, based at least in part upon the passive monitoring, at least one modification made to one or more of the set of document portions; and dynamically removing data from at least one document portion among the set of document portions upon determining that the at least one modification congruency of the at least one document portion with respect to the set of document portions.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the operation further comprises: responsive to the client exiting the document via the user interface, updating a knowledge base of the machine learning knowledge model based upon activity of the client.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the plurality of document portions includes noncontiguous sections.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein configuring the set of document portions further comprises determining access control with respect to one or more of the set of document portions, and wherein the passive monitoring of the set of document portions is granular with respect to one or more of the set of document portions.
</claims>
</document>
