<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/00,G01S13/58,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T7/215,G06T7/292,G06T7/70,G08G1/16,H04N5/14,H04N5/232,H04N5/235
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MARTINEAU & ASSOCIATES
Martineau & Associates, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARTINEAU, PIERRE R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59057691
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for remanent imaging control
</title>

<abstract>
The invention is drawn towards a method and apparatus for controlling a consumer based on motion detected in a data stream, comprising: receiving the data stream, extracting motion information from the image data, generating commands and parameters for the consumer according to the motion information and controlling the consumer according to the commands and parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions for performing a method, the instructions being executable by at least one processor, the method comprising: receiving at least one sequence of digital images from an image acquisition device, the sequence of digital images including at least one digital image, the at least one digital image resulting from a photographic exposure of a scene over a duration of exposure time, the scene including at least one motile object or medium within a field of view of the acquisition device, the at least one motile object or medium creating a motion blur within the photographic exposure when moving during the exposure time of the at least one digital image; detecting an absence of a motion blur or analyzing a motion blur created by the at least one motile object or medium within the field of view by measuring spatial changes in pixel values within the at least one digital image to generate motion parameters of the at least one motile object or medium; determining crest lines of a pixel intensity landscape derived by applying a transform to the at least one digital image, said crest lines correlating with vector directions of a velocity field of the at least one motile object or medium; determining one or more trajectories of points in the at least one motile object or medium within the at least one digital image, the determining the one or more trajectories comprising generating a synthetic image containing the trajectories of points in the at least one motile object or medium in the at least one digital image; creating a velocity orientation map by correlating line segments of the synthetic image with at least one angular orientation to determine a tangent angle of at least one trajectory point; and providing a controller signal based on the motion parameters to at least one controller to generate control commands having sensitivity to movement of the at least one motile object or medium that varies in accordance with movement of the at least one motile object or medium.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the controller signal includes a transformation of the at least one sequence of digital images.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the synthetic image is generated from at least a subset of the sequence of digital images.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 3, wherein the synthetic image is generated from stacking the at least a subset of the sequence of digital images.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, the method further comprising providing the controller signal to at least one non-transitory computer readable medium.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising controlling a camera using the controller signal to record at least one future image of at least one of the motile object or medium, wherein controlling the camera using the controller signal comprises controlling at least one of orientation of the camera or settings of the camera for acquisition of the at least one future image of the at least one motile object or medium.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein providing the controller signal to the at least one controller comprises changing a position of the at least one motile object or medium in the field of view by controlling a base supporting the at least one motile object or medium based on the controller signal.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the image acquisition device acquires at least one analog image that is converted to the at least one digital image.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising determining elevation along the crest lines that correlate with intensity of a velocity field of the at least one motile object or medium.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, the method further comprising determining quantitative motion data based on the synthetic image.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, the method further comprising creating an acceleration map indicating an acceleration of the at least one trajectory point of the synthetic image.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, the method further comprising creating a velocity field map indicating a velocity vector at least one trajectory point of the synthetic image.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, the method further comprising generating a stacked image from at least a subset of the sequence of digital images.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein providing the controller signal based on the motion parameters to the at least one controller comprises controlling a camera in real time so that regions of interest in the scene are captured at high spatio-temporal resolution and other regions at lower spatio-temporal resolution.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising modifying a distribution of light illuminating the scene by controlling at least one of the orientation or settings of at least one light source illuminating the scene based on the controller signal.
16. A system comprising: one or more processors; and memory containing instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the one or more processors to: receive at least one sequence of digital images from an image acquisition device, the sequence of digital images including at least one digital image, the at least one digital image resulting from a photographic exposure of a scene over a duration of exposure time, the scene including at least one motile object or medium within a field of view at the acquisition device, the at least one motile object or medium creating a motion blur within the photographic exposure when moving during the exposure time of the at least one digital image; detect an absence of a motion blur or analyze a motion blur created by the at least one motile object or medium within the field of view by measuring spatial changes in pixel values within the at least one digital image to generate motion parameters of the at least one motile object or medium; detect crest lines of a pixel intensity landscape derived by applying a transform to the at least one digital image, said crest lines correlating with vector directions of a velocity field of the at least one motile object or medium; determine one or more trajectories of points in the at least one motile object or medium within the at least one digital image, the determining the one or more trajectories comprising generate a synthetic image containing trajectories of points in the at least one motile object or medium in the at least one digital image; create a velocity orientation map by correlating line segments of the synthetic image with at least one angular orientation to determine a tangent angle of at least one trajectory point; and provide a controller signal based on the motion parameters to at least one controller to generate control commands having sensitivity to movement of the at least one motile object or medium that varies in accordance with movement of the at least one motile object or medium.
</claims>
</document>
