<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/46,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEJLSBERG, THOMAS
PERISIC, MARKO
HANSEN, KLAUS MARIUS
PANKO, ANDREI S.
BOTEZ, ANDREEA-BOGDANA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60910924
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Metadata-driven machine learning for systems
</title>

<abstract>
Training prediction models and applying machine learning prediction to data is illustrated herein. A prediction instance comprising a set of data and metadata associated with the set of data identifying a prediction type is obtained. The data and metadata are used to determine an entity to train a prediction model using the prediction type. A trained prediction model is obtained from the entity. A notification system may be configured to react to monitor contextual information and apply the prediction. A workflow system may automatically perform a function in a workflow based on prediction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable media having stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to apply machine learning prediction to data, including instructions that are executable to configure the computer system to perform at least the following: obtain a prediction instance comprising a set of training data in a table, wherein the table has been annotated with metadata stored in the table together with the set of training data, the metadata including a prediction type for the set of training data in the table; based on the set of training data and meta data determine an entity to train a prediction model using the prediction type; as a result, obtain a trained prediction model, trained using the prediction type in the meta data, from the entity; and monitor user contextual information and proactively apply the prediction model to the prediction instance when contextually relevant and provide contextually relevant suggestions based on results of applying the prediction model to the prediction instance.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the entity is a remote machine learning service.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more computer-readable media further have stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to monitor current conditions and automatically perform a function based on application of the prediction model to the prediction instance.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the prediction instance is updated to include a record for prediction, wherein the one or more computer-readable media further have stored thereon instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to configure the computer system to determine that a prediction should be performed locally for the record for prediction using the trained prediction model and the prediction instance.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the entity is a local system.
6. The computing system of claim 5, wherein determining the entity to train the prediction model is performed as a result of determining that a time series in the data is white noise.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the metadata is also included in a side structure separate from the table with the data.
8. A computer implemented method of applying machine learning prediction to data, the method comprising: obtaining a prediction instance comprising a set of data in a table and metadata in the table with the set of data, the metadata in the table comprising metadata that is applicable to the entire table and individual column metadata in columns of the table applicable to respective individual columns in the table, the metadata including a prediction type; based on the data and meta data determining an entity to train a prediction model using the prediction type for the set of data in the table; as a result, obtaining a trained prediction model, trained using the prediction type in the metadata, from the entity; and monitoring user contextual information and proactively applying the prediction model to the prediction instance when contextually relevant and providing contextually relevant suggestions based on results of applying the prediction model to the prediction instance.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the entity is a remote machine learning service.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising monitoring current conditions and automatically performing a function based on application of the prediction model to the prediction instance.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the prediction instance is updated to include a record for prediction, the method further comprising determining that a prediction should be performed locally for the record for prediction using the trained prediction model and the prediction instance.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the entity is a local system.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein determining the entity to train the prediction mode is performed as a result of determining that a time series in the data is white noise.
14. The method of claim 8 wherein the metadata is also included in a side structure separate from the table with the data.
15. A computer system comprising: a machine learning subsystem comprising: a machine learning optimization system configured to obtain a prediction instance comprising a set of training data in a table and meta data in the table associated with the set of training data, the metadata identifying a prediction type for the set of training data in the table, and based on the training data and meta data determine a n entity to train a prediction model, trained using the prediction type in the metadata, using the prediction type; and a machine learning notification system configured to monitor user contextual information and proactively apply the prediction model to the prediction instance when contextually relevant and provide contextually relevant suggestions based on results of applying the prediction model to the prediction instance.
16. The computing system of claim 15, further comprising a machine learning workflow system to monitor current conditions and automatically perform a function based on application of the prediction model to the prediction instance.
17. The computing system of claim 15, further comprising a ma chine learning prediction subsystem configured to train the prediction model at the machine learning subsystem according to the prediction type and update the prediction instance with the trained prediction model.
18. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the entity is a remote machine learning service.
19. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the entity is a local system.
20. The computing system of claim 15, wherein determining the entity to train the prediction model is configured to be performed as a result of determining that a time series in the data is white noise.
</claims>
</document>
