<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/00,G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G06F3/01,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CURBSIDE
</assignee>

<inventors>
PYLAPPAN, SEEJO
WALDMAN, JARON
LAPRISE, DENIS
CHEN, HARRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65272587
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Arrival predictions based on destination specific model
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed technology provides accurate arrival alerts to a destination. In some embodiments the disclosed technology utilizes a destination specific model that can take into account location specific factors such as traffic around the destination, best approaches to the destination, other likely intermediate stops on the way to the destination, etc. In some embodiments, the present technology aims to provide an arrival alert to the destination at a consistent time interval prior to a user arriving at the destination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing accurate arrival time alerts, the method comprising: determining that a user is progressing towards a destination; receiving a preliminary arrival time from a routing engine; generating, using a machine learning technique, a destination specific model for the destination; adjusting the preliminary arrival time according to the destination specific model; and sending a notification to a computing device at the destination with the adjusted arrival time.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining that the user is progressing towards the destination comprises: receiving a time series of location coordinates from a mobile device associated with the user; and determining that each subsequent location coordinate in the time series is closer to the destination than a prior coordinate in the time series.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the determining that the user is progressing towards the destination comprises: determining that the location coordinates do not map to a building.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the determining that the user is progressing towards the destination comprises: determining that the location coordinates map to a point on the route to the destination.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the machine learning technique comprises: analyzing historical data of notifications sent to the computing device at the destination, the historical data for each notification of the notifications includes at least: a rating of the accuracy of respective notification, route data describing a route taken by a respective user to the destination associated with the respective notification, and a time of day associated with the respective notification.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the destination specific model includes a plurality of dimensions including at least: route taken to destination, most likely stops along the route, delays on a route, and delays at a time of day.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting the preliminary arrival time according to a destination specific model comprises: deferring the sending of the notification when an output of the destination specific model indicates a likely delayed arrival time for the user.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein sending the notification to a computing device at the destination with the adjusted arrival time occurs when the adjusted arrival time is 3 minutes or less.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein sending the notification to a computing device at the destination with the adjusted arrival time occurs when user is within a default time from arriving at the destination, the method comprising: determining that the destination is not prepared for the users arrival; and notifying the destination earlier than the default time in response to the determination that the destination is not prepared for the users arrival.
10. A system comprising: an arrival prediction service to determine that a user is progressing towards a destination, and to receive a preliminary arrival time for the user to arrive at the destination from a routing engine; and a destination specific model developed using a machine learning technique to adjust the preliminary arrival time to yield a predicted arrival time based on destination specific factors.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the arrival prediction service determines that the user is progressing towards the destination by: receiving a series of locations over time from a user device associated with the user, and determining that each subsequent location in the series is closer to the destination that a location recorded at an earlier time, that most recent location in the series is not within a building, and that each location of the series maps to a point on an expected route to the destination.
12. The system of claim 10 comprising: a past trip database to store data including trips taken by a plurality of users, the data including at least an identifier of a past notification, a quality rating for the past notification, the destination associated with the past notification, route data describing a route taken by a respective user of the plurality of users to the destination associated with the past notification, and a time of day associated with the respective notification.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the destination specific model is created by training the machine learning technique on the data in the past trip database, wherein the machine learning technique analyzes data for a specific location to create the destination specific model.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein adjusting of the preliminary arrival time by the destination specific model to yield a predicted arrival time based on destination specific factors includes determining that the predicted arrival time is not reliable and determining that a computing device at the destination should not be notified of the predicted arrival time.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein arrival prediction service is configured to send a notification with the predicted arrival time for the user to a computing device at the destination when the arrival prediction service determines at least one of: the user is predicted to arrive within a first predetermined amount of time, or the destination has not fulfilled an order requested by the user, and the user is predicted to arrive within a second predetermined amount of time.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, the instructions, when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to: determine that a user is progressing towards a destination; receive a preliminary arrival time from a routing engine; generate, using a machine learning technique, a destination specific model for the destination; determine a confidence level for the preliminary arrival time based on the destination specific model; and send a notification to a computing device at the destination when the confidence level in the preliminary arrival time is sufficient to send the notification.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions to determine that the user is progressing towards the destination include instructions to determine that the user is progressing towards the destination by: receiving a series of locations over time from a user device associated with the user, and determining that each subsequent location of the series is closer to the destination that a location recorded at an earlier time, that most recent location in the series is not within a building, and that each location of the series maps to a point on an expected route to the destination.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the machine learning technique includes instructions to: analyze historical data of notifications received from a plurality of user on trips to the destination, the historical data for each notification includes at least: a rating of an accuracy of a respective notification, route data describing a route taken to the destination associated with the respective notification, and a time of day associated with the respective notification.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions cause the computing system to: adjust the preliminary arrival time according to the destination specific model.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, determine a confidence level for the preliminary arrival time includes instruction to cause the computing system to: determining that the user is progressing on a route to the destination that is not among the most common routes to the destination, and determine that the confidence level in the preliminary arrival time is not great enough to send the notification at that time.
</claims>
</document>
