<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/11,G06F16/25,G06F9/455,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HPE (HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAXENA, VINAY
THULASI, ARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65809166
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Management of network elements in a cloud platform
</title>

<abstract>
According to examples, an apparatus may include a processor and a memory on which is stored machine readable instructions that when executed cause the processor to receive first data from a first data provider in a cloud platform, receive second data from a second data provider in the cloud platform, the second data being a different type of data than the first data, and the first data and the second data pertaining to network elements in the cloud platform. The instructions may also cause the processor to normalize the first data and the second data and based on an analysis of the normalized first data and the second data, identify an action to be executed in the cloud platform. The instructions may further cause the processor to instruct a dispatcher to execute the action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory communicatively coupled to the processor and on which is stored machine readable instructions, that when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: receive first data, in a first data type at a first time, from a first data provider in a cloud platform; receive second data, in a second data type at a second time, from a second data provider in the cloud platform, the second data type being a different type of data than the first data type, and the first data and the second data pertaining to measured metrics obtained from associated network elements in the cloud platform; normalize the first data and the second data by correlating the first data and the second data based on an attribute associated with both the first data and the second data to create a normalized first data and a normalized second data; based on analysis of the normalized first data and the normalized second data, identify an action to be executed in the cloud platform; and instruct a dispatcher to initiate execution of the action.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, are further to cause the processor to: archive the normalized first data and the normalized second data into an archive as at least one of a time-series database or a NoSQL database.
3. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first data pertains to physical infrastructure network components in the cloud platform and the second data pertains to virtual infrastructure network components in the cloud platform.
4. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: access a plurality of policies; and identify the action to be executed in the platform via comparison of the normalized first data and the normalized second data to the accessed plurality of policies.
5. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to: prior to instructing a dispatcher to initiate execution of the action, select the dispatcher from a plurality of dispatchers based on the identified action, wherein the plurality of dispatchers are to dispatch actions to different types of network elements.
6. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein to normalize the first data and the second data, the instructions, when executed by the processor, are further to cause the processor to: correlate the first data and the second data with respect to the first time and the second time.
7. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein to normalize the first data and the second data, the instructions, when executed by the processor, are further to cause the processor to: transform the first data and the second data into a machine readable format for use in a machine learning process.
8. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein to correlate the first data and the second data, the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: correlate the first data and the second data based on past behavior in the cloud platform or rules pertaining to the correlation.
9. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first data pertains to information regarding operation of a plurality of nodes in the cloud platform and the second data pertains to information regarding operation of a plurality of virtual machines hosted on the plurality of nodes in the cloud platform, and wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine, based on the analysis of the normalized first data and the normalized second data, whether a virtual machine of the plurality of virtual machines is to be migrated from a first node of the plurality of nodes to a second node of the plurality of nodes, whether a third node of the plurality of nodes is to be placed in a reduced power consumption mode, whether a fourth node of the plurality of nodes is to be placed in a higher power consumption mode, or a combination thereof.
10. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving first data, in a first data type at a first time, from a first data provider, the first data pertaining to physical infrastructure components in a cloud platform; receiving second data, in a second data type at a second time, from a second data provider in the cloud platform, the second data pertaining to virtual infrastructure components in the cloud platform; normalizing, by a processor, the first data and the second data by correlating the first data and the second data based on an attribute associated with both the first data and the second data to create a normalized first data and a normalized second data; analyzing, by the processor, the normalized first data and the normalized second data to identify an action to be executed in the cloud platform; selecting, by the processor, a dispatcher to initiate execution of the action; and sending, by the processor, an instruction to the selected dispatcher to initiate execution of the action.
11. The computer-implemented method according to claim 10, further comprising: archiving the normalized first data and the normalized second data into an archive as at least one of a time-series database or a noSQL database.
12. The method according to claim 10, wherein analyzing the normalized first data and the normalized second data further comprises comparing the normalized first data and the normalized second data against a policy pertaining to the first data and the second data.
13. The method according to claim 10, wherein normalizing the first data and the second data comprises correlating the first data and the second data with respect to the first time and the second time.
14. The method according to claim 10, wherein normalizing the first data and the second data comprises transforming the first data and the second data into a machine readable format for use in a machine learning process.
15. The method according to claim 10, wherein selecting the dispatcher comprises selecting the dispatcher from a plurality of dispatchers based on the identified action to be executed, wherein the plurality of dispatchers are to dispatch actions to different types of network elements.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium on which is stored machine readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a node are to cause the processor to: receive first data, in a first data type at a first time, from a first data provider, the first data pertaining to physical nodes in a cloud platform; receive second data, in a second data type at a second time, from a second data provider in the cloud platform, the second data pertaining to virtual machines in the cloud platform; normalize the first data and the second data by correlating the first data and the second data based on an attribute associated with both the first data and the second data to create a normalized first data and a normalized second data; and analyze the normalized first data with the normalized second data with respect to a policy to identify an action to be executed with respect to a virtual machine in the cloud platform.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the instructions are to cause the processor to: select a dispatcher to initiate execution of the action; and instruct the selected dispatcher to initiate execution of the action.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 17, wherein to select the dispatcher to execute the action, the instructions are to cause the processor to: select the dispatcher from a plurality of dispatchers based on the identified action to be executed, wherein the plurality of dispatchers are to dispatch actions to different types of network elements.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein the instructions are to cause the processor to: archive the normalized first data and the normalized second data into an archive as at least one of a time-series database or a noSQL database.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein to normalize the first data and the second data, the instructions are further to cause the processor to: correlate the first data and the second data with respect to the first time and the second time; and transform the first data and the second data into a machine readable format for use in a machine learning process.
</claims>
</document>
