<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/04,G01S7/35,G06F1/32,G06F1/3231,G06F1/3287,G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMIHOOD, PATRICK M.
GIUSTI, LEONARDO
HAYASHI, EIJI
POUPYREV, IVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68290351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Smartphone-based radar system for determining user intention in a lower-power mode
</title>

<abstract>
This document describes techniques and systems that enable a smartphone-based radar system for determining user intention in a lower-power mode. The techniques and systems use a radar field to enable the smartphone to accurately determine the presence or absence of a user and further determine the intention of the user to interact with the smartphone. Using these techniques, the smartphone can account for the user's nonverbal communication cues to determine and maintain an awareness of users in its environment, and only respond to direct interactions once a user has demonstrated an intention to interact, which preserves battery power. The smartphone may determine the user's intention by recognizing various cues from the user, such as a change in position relative to the smartphone, a change in posture, or by an explicit action, such as a gesture.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A smartphone, comprising: a radar system, implemented at least partially in hardware, configured to: provide a radar field; sense reflections from an object in the radar field; analyze the reflections from the object in the radar field; and provide, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by the one or more computer processors, implement a persistent radar-based interaction manager configured to: maintain the radar system in an idle mode, the idle mode requiring no more than approximately 30 milliwatts (mW) of power; determine, based on a first subset of the radar data, a presence of the object within an awareness zone of the smartphone; responsive to determining the presence of the object within the awareness zone, cause the radar system to enter an attention mode, the attention mode requiring no more than approximately 60 mW of power; responsive to entering the attention mode, and based on a second subset of the radar data, determine an intention level of the object; based on the intention level, determine whether the object intends to interact with the smartphone; responsive to determining that the intention level indicates the object does not intend to interact with the smartphone, cause the radar system to exit the attention mode and enter the idle mode; and responsive to determining that the intention level indicates the object intends to interact with the smartphone, cause the radar system to exit the attention mode and enter an interaction mode, the interaction mode requiring no more than approximately 90 mW of power.
2. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured, responsive to maintaining the radar system in the idle mode, to maintain the smartphone in a power-saving mode.
3. The smartphone of claim 2, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured, responsive to causing the radar system to enter the interaction mode, to cause the smartphone to exit the power-saving mode.
4. The smartphone of claim 2, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured, responsive to causing the radar system to enter the attention mode, to maintain the smartphone in the power-saving mode.
5. The smartphone of claim 2, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured, responsive to causing the radar system to enter the attention mode, to cause the smartphone to exit the power-saving mode.
6. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the idle mode requires no more than approximately eight mW of power.
7. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the attention mode requires between approximately eight mW of power and approximately 55 mW of power.
8. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the interaction mode requires no more than approximately 55 mW of power.
9. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the radar system further comprises a digital beamformer and an angle estimator, and the radar system is configured to monitor angles in a field of view between approximately −90 degrees and approximately 90 degrees.
10. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein: the idle mode enables the radar system to provide the radar field to scan an environment external to the smartphone and determine the presence of the object; and the interaction mode enables the radar system to determine 3D gestures made by the object in the radar field and process the 3D gestures, effective to enable the object to interact with the smartphone via the 3D gestures.
11. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured to: determine the presence of the object without verbal or touch input by the object; and determine the intention level of the object without verbal or touch input by the object.
12. The smartphone of claim 1, wherein the persistent radar-based interaction manager is further configured to cause a change, based on the determined intention level of the object, in a state of a display of the smartphone.
13. A method implemented in an electronic device that includes a radar system, the method comprising: providing, by the radar system, a radar field; sensing, by the radar system, reflections from an object in the radar field; analyzing the reflections from the object in the radar field; providing, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; maintaining the radar system in an idle mode, the idle mode requiring no more than approximately 30 milliwatts (mW) of power; determining, based on a first subset of the radar data, a presence of the object within an awareness zone of the electronic device; responsive to determining the presence of the object within the awareness zone, causing the radar system to enter an attention mode, the attention mode requiring no more than approximately 60 mW of power; responsive to entering the attention mode, and based on a second subset of the radar data, determining an intention level of the object; based on the intention level, determining whether the object intends to interact with the electronic device; responsive to determining that the intention level indicates the object does not intend to interact with the electronic device, causing the radar system to exit the attention mode and enter the idle mode; and responsive to determining that the intention level indicates the object intends to interact with the electronic device, causing the radar system to exit the attention mode and enter an interaction mode, the interaction mode requiring no more than approximately 90 mW of power.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: responsive to maintaining the radar system in the idle mode, maintaining the electronic device in a power-saving mode; and responsive to the radar system entering the interaction mode, causing the electronic device to exit the power-saving mode.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising, responsive to the radar system entering the attention mode, maintaining the electronic device in the power-saving mode.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising, responsive to the radar system entering the attention mode, causing the electronic device to exit the power-saving mode.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the idle mode requires no more than approximately eight mW of power.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the attention mode requires between approximately eight mW of power and approximately 55 mW of power.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein the interaction mode requires no more than approximately 55 mW of power.
20. A method implemented in an electronic device that includes a radar system, the method comprising: providing, by the radar system, a radar field; sensing, by the radar system, reflections from an object in the radar field; analyzing the reflections from the object in the radar field; providing, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; maintaining the radar system in a lower-power mode, the lower-power mode requiring no more than approximately 30 milliwatts (mW) of power; determining, based on a first subset of the radar data, a presence of the object within an awareness zone of the electronic device; and responsive to determining the presence of the object within the awareness zone, causing the radar system to exit the lower-power mode and enter an interaction mode, the interaction mode requiring no more than approximately 90 mW of power.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the lower-power mode is an idle mode or an attention mode.
</claims>
</document>
