<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G08B21/24,G09B19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MANFIELD, PHILIP ELI
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANFIELD, PHILIP ELI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68464762
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Parameterized sensory system
</title>

<abstract>
A parameterized sensory system uses interactions with a graphical user interface to reduce a disturbance level associated with information particular to a user. Parameters indicative of a reminder phrase related to the information and an initial rating for the disturbance level are received. The graphical user interface is operated. Input indicative of interaction with the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface is received. Another parameter indicative of a new rating for the disturbance level is received thereafter. The user interaction causes a reduction to the disturbance level such that the new rating is lower than the initial rating. The user interaction is without active processing by the user as to the reminder phrase or the information such that the cause of the reduction to the disturbance level is related to the user interaction with the input interface without the active processing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for using interactions with a graphical user interface to reduce a disturbance level associated with information particular to a user, the apparatus comprising: an input interface; a display; a memory; and a processor configured to execute instructions stored in the memory to: receive, as input from the user, a first parameter including text indicative of a reminder phrase related to the information; receive a second parameter indicative of initial rating for the disturbance level, the disturbance level reflecting a significance of the information to the user; generate a graphical user interface including a graphical element, wherein the graphical element is different from the reminder phrase; operate the graphical user interface by: controlling a traversal of the graphical element across the display; controlling a change of the graphical element over time; and controlling a random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time; receive input indicative of user interaction with the input interface by the user during the operation of the graphical user interface, wherein the operation of the graphical user interface is independent of the input; correlate the input with changes to the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface; and receive a third parameter indicative of a new rating for the disturbance level, wherein the user interaction with the input interface during the operation of the graphical user interface is without active processing by the user as to the reminder phrase and causes a reduction to the disturbance level such that the new rating is lower than the initial rating.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cause of the reduction to the disturbance level during the operation of the graphical user interface is related to the user interaction with the input interface without the active processing.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions to correlate the input with changes to the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface include instructions to: score the input based on a time interval between a first time at which the graphical element is changed and a second time at which the input is received.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions to control the traversal of the graphical element across the display include instructions to: cause the graphical element to horizontally, vertically, or diagonally traverse the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions to control the change of the graphical element over time include instructions to: cause a visual representation of the graphical element to change from a first visual representation to a second visual representation.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions to control the random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time include instructions to: randomly flash the reminder phrase at different locations of the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions include instructions to: output directions for interacting with the graphical user interface to the display prior to the operation of the graphical user interface, wherein the directions include directions for the user to interact with the input interface upon identifying a change to the graphical element.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the instructions include instructions to: subsequent to receipt of the third parameter, further operate the graphical user interface; receive further input indicative of further user interaction with the input interface by the user during the further operation of the graphical user interface; and receive a fourth parameter indicative of a further new rating for the disturbance level, wherein the user interaction with the input interface during the further operation of the graphical user interface causes a further reduction to the disturbance level such that the further new rating is lower than the new rating.
9. A computer-implemented method for using interactions with a graphical user interface to reduce a disturbance level associated with information particular to a user, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, as input from the user, a first parameter including text indicative of a reminder phrase related to the information; receiving a second parameter indicative of an initial rating for the disturbance level, the disturbance level reflecting a significance of the information to the user; operating a graphical user interface output for display, the graphical user interface including a graphical element, wherein the graphical element is different from the reminder phrase; receiving input indicative of interaction by the user and associated with the graphical element at multiple times during the operation of the graphical user interface, wherein the operation of the graphical user interface is independent of the input; and receiving a third parameter indicative of a new rating for the disturbance level, wherein the user interaction with the input interface during the operation of the graphical user interface is without active processing by the user as to the reminder phrase and causes a reduction to the disturbance level such that the new rating is lower than the initial rating.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the cause of the reduction to the disturbance level during the operation of the graphical user interface is related to the user interaction associated with the graphical user interface without the active processing.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein operating the graphical user interface output for display comprises: controlling a traversal of the graphical element across the display; controlling a change of the graphical element over time; and controlling a random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein controlling the traversal of the graphical element across the display includes causing the graphical element to horizontally, vertically, or diagonally traverse the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface, wherein controlling the change of the graphical element over time includes causing a visual representation of the graphical element to change from a first visual representation to a second visual representation, and wherein controlling the random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time includes randomly flashing the reminder phrase at different locations of the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein receiving the input indicative of the interaction by the user and associated with the graphical element at the multiple times during the operation of the graphical user interface comprises: receiving an instance of the input at one of the multiple times; and correlating the instance of the input with a change to the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein correlating the instance of the input with the change to the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface comprises: scoring the input based on a time interval between a first time at which the graphical element is changed and a second time at which the input is received.
15. An apparatus, comprising: a memory; and a processor configured to execute instructions stored in the memory to: receive, as first input from a user, a reminder phrase related to information particular to the user; receive, as second input from the user, an initial rating for a disturbance level associated with the information, the disturbance level reflecting a significance of the information to the user; generate a graphical user interface including a graphical element and the reminder phrase, wherein the graphical element and the reminder phrase are different; operate the graphical user interface including by controlling a traversal of the graphical element across a display, controlling a change of the graphical element over time, and controlling a random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time; receive input indicative of interaction by the user with an input interface during operation of the graphical user interface; and receive, as third input from the user, a new rating for the disturbance level after the operation of the graphical user interface has completed, wherein the interaction by the user with the input interface during the operation of the graphical user interface is without active processing by the user as to the reminder phrase and causes a reduction to the disturbance level such that the new rating is lower than the initial rating.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein controlling the traversal of the graphical element across the display includes causing the graphical element to horizontally, vertically, or diagonally traverse the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface, wherein controlling the change of the graphical element over time includes causing a visual representation of the graphical element to change from a first visual representation to a second visual representation, and wherein controlling the random flashing of the reminder phrase on the display over time includes randomly flashing the reminder phrase at different locations of the graphical user interface during the operation of the graphical user interface.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the instructions include instructions to: correlate the input with changes to the graphical element during the operation of the graphical user interface; and score the input based on a time interval between a first time at which the graphical element is changed and a second time at which the input is received.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein locations of the graphical user interface at which the reminder phrase is randomly flashed during the operation of the graphical user interface are selected according to a defined list of possible locations for the reminder phrase.
</claims>
</document>
