<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N19/40,H04N7/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREITMAN, KARIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140912
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus for automatic media file transcoding
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus are provided for automatically transcoding media files. An exemplary method comprises obtaining an input media file having an input file format and encoded with a codec of a first type; automatically determining output media file formats for transcoding the input media file based on statistics of previously transcoded files and statistics of trending media formats for previously downloaded files; and transcoding the input media file into transcoded output media files using a codec of a second type to obtain the determined output media file formats. The output media file formats can be automatically determined using a weighting scheme. Transcoding algorithms are optionally automatically selected based on transcoding algorithms previously used to transcode proximally similar files as the input media file. Input files can be dynamically prioritized for transcoding based on a complexity rating of the determined output media file formats and a ranking of selected transcoding algorithms Metadata is optionally generated for transcoded output media files and stored in the transcoded output media files and/or a separate media catalogue.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising the steps of: obtaining, by a transcoding media system, at least one input media file having an input file format and encoded with a codec of a first type; automatically determining, by the transcoding media system, a plurality of output media file formats that the input media file is to be transcoded into, wherein the determining comprises: (i) obtaining statistics for files stored in a storage system associated with the transcoding media system, (ii) generating a set of popular output media file formats and a set of trending media output media file formats based on the statistics, and (iii) combining the sets into a single list, wherein the statistics comprise statistics of previously transcoded files and statistics of one or more trending media file formats for previously downloaded files over a given period of time; automatically selecting one or more transcoding algorithms for transcoding the at least one input media file into the plurality of output media file formats, wherein the selecting is based at least in part on an unsupervised machine learning technique that identifies files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system that are proximally similar to the at least one input media file; generating a list of pairs, each pair comprising one of the plurality of output media file formats and one of the one or more transcoding algorithms; dynamically prioritizing the list of pairs based at least in part on the set of popular output media file formats and the set of trending media output media file formats; and transcoding, based at least in part on said prioritizing, the at least one input media file into a plurality of transcoded output media files having the determined one or more output media file formats, wherein the transcoding uses at least one codec of a second type that is different than the first type.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the statistics of previously transcoded files comprise a popularity measure of each media file format used to transcode said previously transcoded files.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the step of automatically determining the plurality of output media file formats that the input media file is to be transcoded into further comprises the steps of (i) assigning a weight to the set of popular media file formats selected based on said popularity measure and a weight to the set of said trending media file formats; and (ii) combining the sets into the single list based on the assigned weights.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the unsupervised machine learning technique computes clusters of similar ones of the files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system, and assigns the at least one input media file to one of said clusters.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of generating metadata for said plurality of transcoded output media files and storing said generated metadata in said one or more transcoded output media files.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of processing a query of said generated metadata stored in said separate media catalogue.
7. A computer program product, comprising a tangible machine-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by at least one processing device perform the following steps: obtaining, by a transcoding media system, at least one input media file having an input file format and encoded with a codec of a first type; automatically determining, by the transcoding media system, a plurality of output media file formats that the input media file is to be transcoded into, wherein the determining comprises: (i) obtaining statistics for files stored in a storage system associated with the transcoding media system, (ii) generating a set of popular output media file formats and a set of trending media output media file formats based on the statistics, and (iii) combining the sets into a single list, wherein the statistics comprise statistics of previously transcoded files and statistics of one or more trending media file formats for previously downloaded files over a given period of time; automatically selecting one or more transcoding algorithms for transcoding the at least one input media file into the plurality of output media file formats, wherein the selecting is based at least in part on an unsupervised machine learning technique that identifies files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system that are proximally similar to the at least one input media file; generating a list of pairs, each pair comprising one of the plurality of output media file formats and one of the one or more transcoding algorithms; dynamically prioritizing the list of pairs based at least in part on the set of popular output media file formats and the set of trending media output media file formats; and transcoding, based at least in part on said prioritizing, the at least one input media file into a plurality of transcoded output media files having the determined one or more output media file formats, wherein the transcoding uses at least one codec of a second type that is different than the first type.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the statistics comprise a popularity measure of each media file format used to transcode said previously transcoded files.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the step of automatically determining one or more output media file formats for transcoding said one or more input media files further comprises the steps of (i) assigning a weight to a set of popular media file formats selected based on said popularity measure and a weight to a set of said trending media file formats; and (ii) combining said weighted media file formats into a single list.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the unsupervised machine learning technique computes clusters of similar ones of the files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system, and assigns the at least one input media file to one of said clusters.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, further comprising the steps of generating metadata for said one or more transcoded output media files and storing said generated metadata in one or more of said one or more transcoded output media files and a separate media catalogue.
12. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processing device, coupled to the memory, operative to implement the following steps: obtaining, by a transcoding media system, at least one input media file having an input file format and encoded with a codec of a first type; automatically determining, by the transcoding media system, a plurality of output media file formats that the input media file is to be transcoded into, wherein the determining comprises: (i) obtaining statistics for files stored in a storage system associated with the transcoding media system, (ii) generating a set of popular output media file formats and a set of trending media output media file formats based on the statistics, and (iii) combining the sets into a single list, wherein the statistics comprise statistics of previously transcoded files and statistics of one or more trending media file formats for previously downloaded files over a given period of time; automatically selecting one or more transcoding algorithms for transcoding the at least one input media file into the plurality of output media file formats, wherein the selecting is based at least in part on an unsupervised machine learning technique that identifies files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system that are proximally similar to the at least one input media file; generating a list of pairs, each pair comprising one of the plurality of output media file formats and one of the one or more transcoding algorithms; dynamically prioritizing the list of pairs based at least in part on the set of popular output media file formats and the set of trending media output media file formats; and transcoding, based at least in part on said prioritizing, the at least one input media file into a plurality of transcoded output media files having the determined one or more output media file formats, wherein the transcoding uses at least one codec of a second type that is different than the first type.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the statistics of previously transcoded files comprise a popularity measure of each media file format used to transcode said previously transcoded files.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the step of automatically determining the plurality of output media file formats that the input media file is to be transcoded into further comprises the steps of (i) assigning a weight to the set of popular media file formats selected based on said popularity measure and a weight to the set of said trending media file formats; and (ii) combining the sets into the single list based on the assigned weights.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the unsupervised machine learning technique computes clusters of similar ones of the files previously transcoded by the transcoding media system, and assigns the at least one input media file to one of said clusters.
16. The system of claim 12, further comprising the steps of generating metadata for said one or more transcoded output media files and storing said generated metadata in one or more of said one or more transcoded output media files and a separate media catalogue.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising the step of processing a query of said generated metadata stored in said separate media catalogue.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein dynamically prioritizing the one or more input media files comprises: for at least a given one of the pairs, estimating resources required to process the at least one input media file into the one output media file format corresponding to the given pair using the one transcoding algorithm corresponding to the given pair; and dynamically prioritizing the list of pairs based at least in part on the estimated resources and resources available for said transcoding.
19. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein dynamically prioritizing the one or more input media files comprises: for at least a given one of the pairs, estimating resources required to process the at least one input media file into the one output media file format corresponding to the given pair using the one transcoding algorithm corresponding to the given pair; and dynamically prioritizing the list of pairs based at least in part on the estimated resources and resources available for said transcoding.
20. The method of claim 1, further comprising the steps of: generating metadata for said plurality of transcoded output media files; and storing said generated metadata in a separate media catalogue, wherein the separate media catalogue is accessible via a content delivery network and the plurality of transcoded output media files are accessible via a network file system.
</claims>
</document>
