<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-08-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRANVILLE, III, WALTER J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
47713303
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods to communicate offer options via messaging in real time with processing of payment transaction
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a computing apparatus is configured to facilitate the redemption of loyalty currency in a payment transaction via facilitating awareness of the payment transaction, managing the consumer segmentation and offering promotions, validating available points currency, managing a currency value exchange rate, applying deductions to consumer currency balance, facilitating consumer reimbursement, invoicing for currency exchange, and/or providing consumer engagement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: storing, with at least one processor, in a data warehouse in communication with a transaction handler, data associating a first account of a user with a communication reference of a device of the user; storing, with at least one processor, in the data warehouse, a completion status of a plurality of events corresponding to an offer available during execution of an offer campaign, the plurality of events including at least one prerequisite event and a final event, the plurality of events corresponding to a required order of the plurality of events; receiving, with at least one processor from an offeror corresponding to the offer, a new or modified event that modifies the required order; determining, with at least one processor, a most recent event, of the plurality of events, completed by the user; determining, with at least one processor, based on the required order, if the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event or before the most recent event; in response to determining that the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event, modifying, with at least one processor, the required order of the plurality of events to include the new or modified event; receiving, with at least one processor, the authorization response for a first transaction between a merchant and the first account of the user; determining, with at least one processor, that the first transaction in the first account has been approved based on receiving an authorization response and that the user of the first account has completed the plurality of events in the required order; communicating, with at least one processor, a redemption message to the device of the user using the communication reference stored in the data warehouse in association with the first account, the redemption message identifying the offer to redeem the amount of loyalty benefits towards the first transaction, wherein the redemption message is communicated so as to arrive at the device of the user substantially at a same time as the authorization response arrives at a merchant associated with the first transaction; and settling the first transaction by applying, with at least one processor, the amount of loyalty benefits by reducing an amount of the first transaction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a transaction terminal at a merchant location.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a point of interaction.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the device of the user comprises a mobile device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a transaction terminal, the transaction terminal comprising an online server.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the offer with a set of criteria; storing a trigger record identifying the set of criteria; monitoring payment transactions based on the trigger record, each of the payment transactions being processed by the transaction handler in response to an account identifier being submitted by an acquirer processor for a payment from an issuer to an acquirer, the issuer to make the payment on behalf of an account holder of the account identifier issued by the issuer to the account holder, and the acquirer to receive the payment on behalf of a merchant from which the account holder made a purchase; and identifying the first transaction based on a determination that the first transaction satisfies the set of criteria identified by the trigger record.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to the transmitting of the redemption message, communicating with a loyalty processor in control of a loyalty account to determine a balance of available loyalty benefits; wherein the redemption message identifies the balance.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the loyalty processor in control of the loyalty account is in communication with and remote from the at least one processor.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the redemption message is communicated to the device of the user with a short message service.
10. A system for communicating offer options in real time with processing of a payment transaction comprising at least one processor programmed or configured to: store, in a data warehouse in communication with a transaction handler, data associating a first account of a user with a communication reference of a device of the user; store, in the data warehouse, a completion status of a plurality of events corresponding to an offer available during execution of an offer campaign, the plurality of events including at least one prerequisite event and a final event, the plurality of events corresponding to a required order of the plurality of events; receive, from an offeror corresponding to the offer, a new or modified event that modifies the required order; determine a most recent event, of the plurality of events, completed by the user; determine, based on the required order, if the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event or before the most recent event; in response to determining that the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event, modify the required order of the plurality of events to include the new or modified event; in response to determining that the new or modified event is required temporally before the most recent event, not modify the required order of the plurality of events to include the new or modified event; receive an authorization response for a first transaction between a merchant and the first account of the user; determine that the first transaction in the first account has been approved based on receiving the authorization response and that the user of the first account has completed the plurality of events in the required order; communicate a redemption message to the device using the communication reference stored in the data warehouse in association with the first account, the redemption message identifying the offer to redeem the amount of loyalty benefits towards the first transaction, wherein the redemption message is communicated so as to arrive at the device substantially at a same time as the authorization response arrives at a merchant associated with the first transaction; and settle the first transaction by applying the amount of loyalty benefits by reducing an amount of the first transaction.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a transaction terminal at a merchant location.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a point of interaction.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the device of the user comprises a mobile device.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the merchant comprises a transaction terminal, the transaction terminal comprising an online server.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the redemption message is communicated to the device of the user with a short message service.
16. A computer program product for communicating offer options in real time with processing of a payment transaction comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or more instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: store, in a data warehouse in communication with a transaction handler, data associating a first account of a user with a communication reference of a device of the user; store, in the data warehouse, a completion status of a plurality of events corresponding to an offer available during execution of an offer campaign, the plurality of events including at least one prerequisite event and a final event, the plurality of events corresponding to a required order of the plurality of events; receive, from an offeror corresponding to the offer, a new or modified event that modifies the required order; determine a most recent event, of the plurality of events, completed by the user; determine, based on the required order, if the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event or before the most recent event; in response to determining that the new or modified event is required temporally after the most recent event, modify the required order of the plurality of events to include the new or modified event; in response to determining that the new or modified event is required temporally before the most recent event, not modify the required order of the plurality of events to include the new or modified event; receive an authorization response for a first transaction between a merchant and the first account of the user; determine that the first transaction in the first account has been approved based on receiving the authorization response and that the user of the first account has completed the plurality of events in the required order; communicate a redemption message to the device of the user using the communication reference stored in the data warehouse in association with the first account, the redemption message identifying the offer to redeem the amount of loyalty benefits towards the first transaction, wherein the redemption message is communicated so as to arrive at the device of the user substantially at a same time as the authorization response arrives at a merchant associated with the first transaction; and settle the first transaction by applying the amount of loyalty benefits by reducing an amount of the first transaction.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a transaction terminal at a merchant location.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a point of interaction.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the device of the user comprises a mobile device.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the merchant associated with the first transaction comprises a transaction terminal, the transaction terminal comprising an online server.
</claims>
</document>
