<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC CORPORATION
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, RAPHAEL
DIONISIO, DAVID M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69902507
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting reliability of product and part combinations using machine learning based on shared model
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus comprises a processing platform configured to implement a machine learning system for automated generation of predicted reliability measures and associated early warning indicators for product and part combinations. The machine learning system comprises a data aggregation module configured to extract product and part data from a big data repository, and a reliability predictor configured to generate predicted reliability measures for respective ones of the product and part combinations utilizing a shared model that is determined based at least in part on the extracted product and part data. The machine learning system processes the predicted reliability measures to generate early warning indicators relating to particular ones of the product and part combinations having predicted reliability measures that fail to meet one or more specified criteria. The machine learning system illustratively provides the early warning indicators to a visualization interface so as to facilitate user adjustment of a product line.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a processing platform configured to implement a machine learning system for automated generation of predicted reliability measures and associated early warning indicators for product and part combinations; wherein the machine learning system comprises: a data aggregation module configured to extract product and part data from a data repository; and a reliability predictor coupled to the data aggregation module and configured to generate predicted reliability measures for respective ones of the product and part combinations utilizing a shared model that is determined based at least in part on the extracted product and part data; the predicted reliability measures comprising at least a first predicted reliability measure for a first part implemented in a first product that includes the first part and one or more additional parts, and a second predicted reliability measure, different than the first predicted reliability measure, for the first part implemented in a second product different than the first product, the second product including the first part and one or more additional parts different than the one or more additional parts of the first product; the first and second predicted reliability measures being configured to permit detection of product-induced variation in reliability of the first part; the machine learning system processing the predicted reliability measures to generate early warning indicators relating to particular ones of the product and part combinations having predicted reliability measures that fail to meet one or more specified criteria; the machine learning system providing the early warning indicators to a visualization interface so as to permit a user to adjust a product line to avoid potentially problematic product and part combinations; wherein the shared model is updated under the control of the machine learning system to take into account changes in the product and part data in the data repository; wherein the processing platform is further configured to generate for presentation in the visualization interface a quadrant plot view visualization that displays the predicted reliability measures for respective product and part combinations as a function of number of parts in field for a designated time period, with each of a plurality of points plotted in the quadrant plot view visualization corresponding to a different one of the product and part combinations; and wherein the processing platform comprises one or more processing devices each comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the machine learning system comprises: a back end portion; and a front end portion coupled to the back end portion; the back end portion comprising a data analytics system implementing machine learning functionality of the machine learning system including at least part of one or more of the data aggregation module and the reliability predictor; the front end portion implementing at least part of the visualization interface.
3. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the data analytics system of the back end portion comprises a parallel processing database having an associated library of scalable in-database analytics functions.
4. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the front end portion interacts with the data analytics system of the back end portion via a standardized database connectivity protocol.
5. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the front end portion comprises a web server implemented utilizing at least one virtual machine.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the machine learning system further comprises a predictive model generator configured to identify a plurality of features relevant to the extracted product and part data, to construct the shared model as a regression model over multiple ones of the product and part combinations based on the identified features, and to train the shared model utilizing at least a portion of the extracted product and part data.
7. The apparatus of claim 6 wherein the identified features comprise at least a subset of current replacement rate, change in replacement rate, mean time between replacement and confidence interval of current replacement rate.
8. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the current replacement rate comprises a current annual replacement rate and the change in replacement rate comprises a smoothed change in replacement rate.
9. The apparatus of claim 7 wherein the confidence interval of the current replacement rate is determined as a function of the current replacement rate and number of parts in field for a designated time period.
10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shared model comprises different models for different part types.
11. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the shared model is generated for a particular product and encompasses a plurality of different parts of a particular part type that are usable in the particular product.
12. An information processing system comprising the apparatus of claim 1.
13. A method comprising steps of: extracting product and part data from a data repository; generating predicted reliability measures for respective product and part combinations utilizing a shared model that is determined based at least in part on the extracted product and part data; the predicted reliability measures comprising at least a first predicted reliability measure for a first part implemented in a first product that includes the first part and one or more additional parts, and a second predicted reliability measure, different than the first predicted reliability measure, for the first part implemented in a second product different than the first product, the second product including the first part and one or more additional parts different than the one or more additional parts of the first product; the first and second predicted reliability measures being configured to permit detection of product-induced variation in reliability of the first part; processing the predicted reliability measures to generate early warning indicators relating to particular ones of the product and part combinations having predicted reliability measures that fail to meet one or more specified criteria; providing the early warning indicators to a visualization interface so as to permit a user to adjust a product line to avoid potentially problematic product and part combinations; generating for presentation in the visualization interface a quadrant plot view visualization that displays the predicted reliability measures for respective product and part combinations as a function of number of parts in field for a designated time period, with each of a plurality of points plotted in the quadrant plot view visualization corresponding to a different one of the product and part combinations; and updating the shared model to take into account changes in the product and part data in the data repository; wherein said steps are performed by a processing platform comprising one or more processing devices.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising: identifying a plurality of features relevant to the extracted product and part data; constructing the shared model over multiple product and part combinations based on the identified features; and training the shared model utilizing at least a portion of the extracted product and part data.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the identified features comprise at least a subset of current replacement rate, change in replacement rate, mean time between replacement and confidence interval of current replacement rate.
16. A non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having program code of one or more software programs embodied therein, wherein the program code when executed by at least one processing device of a processing platform causes the processing device: to extract product and part data from a data repository; to generate predicted reliability measures for respective product and part combinations utilizing a shared model that is determined based at least in part on the extracted product and part data; the predicted reliability measures comprising at least a first predicted reliability measure for a first part implemented in a first product that includes the first part and one or more additional parts, and a second predicted reliability measure, different than the first predicted reliability measure, for the first part implemented in a second product different than the first product, the second product including the first part and one or more additional parts different than the one or more additional parts of the first product; the first and second predicted reliability measures being configured to permit detection of product-induced variation in reliability of the first part; to process the predicted reliability measures to generate early warning indicators relating to particular ones of the product and part combinations having predicted reliability measures that fail to meet one or more specified criteria; to provide the early warning indicators to a visualization interface so as to permit a user to adjust a product line to avoid potentially problematic product and part combinations; to generate for presentation in the visualization interface a quadrant plot view visualization that displays the predicted reliability measures for respective product and part combinations as a function of number of parts in field for a designated time period, with each of a plurality of points plotted in the quadrant plot view visualization corresponding to a different one of the product and part combinations; and to update the shared model to take into account changes in the product and part data in the data repository.
17. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 16 wherein the program code when executed by at least one processing device further causes said processing device: to identify a plurality of features relevant to the extracted product and part data; to construct a shared model over multiple product and part combinations based on the identified features; and to train the shared model utilizing at least a portion of the extracted product and part data.
18. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 17 wherein the identified features comprise at least a subset of current replacement rate, change in replacement rate, mean time between replacement and confidence interval of current replacement rate.
19. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 18 wherein the current replacement rate comprises a current annual replacement rate and the change in replacement rate comprises a smoothed change in replacement rate.
20. The non-transitory processor-readable storage medium of claim 18 wherein the confidence interval of the current replacement rate is determined as a function of the current replacement rate and number of parts in field for a designated time period.
</claims>
</document>
