<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F16/25,G06F16/951,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PISTOIA, MARCO
WOOD, STEPHEN
LIGMAN, JOE
LEE, KYUNGMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66813949
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive mobile application design search engine including a keyword search
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile application design search method, system, and computer program product include detecting a feature in an uploaded design source files, generating keywords that describe each feature for design screens in the design source files, and creating a database including the feature and the keywords associated with the feature to enable a keyword search for a type of the feature that can be reused in a new application design source file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented mobile application design search method, the method comprising: detecting a feature of a design screen in an uploaded design source file, the feature being a reusable element of the uploaded design source file and the feature being reusable in a new application design source file; extracting a source code of the feature that is independently extractable from the uploaded design source file; generating keywords that describe the feature of the design screen in the design source file; creating a database including the feature, the source code of the feature, and the keywords associated with the feature to enable a keyword search for the feature to reuse the feature in the new application design source file; and downloading the source code of the feature from the database to combine with the new application design source file such that the feature is copied to the new application design source file, thereby eliminating a recodification of the feature.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the feature comprises at least one of: a user interface (UI) element; a color scheme; and text.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generating converts the feature into a natural-language based keyword searchable in the database.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the detecting processes the design source file which has been converted to a machine-readable format for the feature detection.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the detecting detects the feature by marking User Interface (UI) elements of each screen for input for one of a rule-based detection and machine learning for identification of the feature.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein, for each screen in the design file, the features are identified using one of image analysis and a feature combination. in the design file for the UI elements, the keywords being generated based on the identified features.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the feature combinations are annotated for a rule or a machine learning to identify reusable feature combinations.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
9. A mobile application design search system, said system comprising: a processor; and a memory, the memory storing instructions to cause the processor to perform: detecting a feature of a design screen in an uploaded design source file, the feature being a reusable element of the uploaded design source file and the feature being reusable in a new application design source file; extracting a source code of the feature that is independently extractable from the uploaded design source file; generating keywords that describe the feature of the design screen in the design source file; creating a database including the feature, the source code of the feature, and the keywords associated with the feature to enable a keyword search for the feature to reuse the feature in the new application design source file; and downloading the source code of the feature from the database to combine with the new application design source file such that the feature is copied to the new application design source file, thereby eliminating a recodification of the feature.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the feature comprises at least one of: a user interface (UI) element; a color scheme; and text.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the generating converts the feature into a natural-language based keyword searchable in the database.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the detecting processes the design source file which has been converted to a machine-readable format for the feature detection.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the detecting detects the feature by marking User Interface (UI) elements of each screen for input for one of a rule-based detection and machine learning for identification of the feature.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein, for each screen in the design file, the features are identified using one of image analysis and a feature combination in the design file for the UI elements, the keywords being generated based on the identified features.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the feature combinations are annotated for a rule or a machine learning to identify reusable feature combinations.
16. The system of claim 9, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
17. A computer program product for mobile application design search, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform: detecting a feature of a design screen in an uploaded design source file, the feature being a reusable element of the uploaded design source file and the feature being reusable in a new application design source file; extracting a source code of the feature that is independently extractable from the uploaded design source file; generating keywords that describe the feature of the design screen in the design source file; creating a database including the feature, the source code of the feature, and the keywords associated with the feature to enable a keyword search for the feature to reuse the feature in the new application design source file; and downloading the source, code of the feature from the database to combine with the new application design source file such that the feature is copied to the new application design source file, thereby eliminating a recodification of the feature.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the feature comprises at least one of: a user interface (UI) element; a color scheme; and text.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the generating converts the feature into a natural-language based keyword searchable in the database.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the detecting processes the design source file which have been converted to a machine-readable format for the feature detection.
</claims>
</document>
