<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/10,H01P3/16,H01P5/08,H01P5/103,H04B3/38,H04B3/52,H04B3/56,H04B3/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53434502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Waveguide system and method for coupling electromagnetic waves from a coupling device to a transmission medium and an antenna coupled thereto
</title>

<abstract>
A dielectric waveguide coupling system for launching and extracting guided wave communication transmissions from a wire. At millimeter-wave frequencies, wherein the wavelength is small compared to the macroscopic size of the equipment, transmissions can propagate as guided waves guided by a strip of dielectric material. Unlike conventional waveguides, the electromagnetic field associated with the dielectric waveguide is primarily outside of the waveguide. When this dielectric waveguide strip is brought into close proximity to a wire, the guided waves decouple from the dielectric waveguide and couple to the wire, and continue to propagate as guided waves about the surface of the wire.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A waveguide system, comprising: a coupling device that facilitates coupling a first guided electromagnetic wave onto a physical transmission medium, wherein the coupling device is positioned with respect to the physical transmission medium, wherein the coupling device has a central axis that is not coaxially aligned with a longitudinal axis of the physical transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave at least partially surrounds the physical transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein at least a portion of an electromagnetic field structure of the first guided electromagnetic wave is external to the physical transmission medium, and wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave has a wave propagation mode; and an antenna that facilitates transmission of a first wireless signal responsive to receiving the first guided electromagnetic wave from the physical transmission medium.
2. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the coupling device is parallel to the physical transmission medium.
3. The waveguide system of claim 2, wherein an end of the coupling device is mechanically coupled to the physical transmission medium.
4. The waveguide system of claim 2, wherein the portion of the coupling device that is positioned parallel to the physical transmission medium is an end of the coupling device.
5. The waveguide system of claim 2, wherein the coupling device includes a first end and a second end opposite the first end, wherein the coupling device includes a curve between the first end and the second end, and wherein a part of the curve is the portion of the coupling device that is positioned parallel to the physical transmission medium.
6. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein a wavelength of the first guided electromagnetic wave is smaller than a circumference of the physical transmission medium.
7. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein a portion of the coupling device is tangential to a longitudinal surface of the physical transmission medium.
8. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the wave propagation mode of the first guided electromagnetic wave comprises a fundamental wave mode that has the electromagnetic field structure covering a circumference of the physical transmission medium.
9. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the wave propagation mode of the first guided electromagnetic wave comprises a non-fundamental wave mode that has a field magnitude that varies as a function of an azimuthal angle around the longitudinal axis of the physical transmission medium.
10. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the wave propagation mode of the first guided electromagnetic wave comprises both a fundamental wave mode and a non-fundamental wave mode.
11. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the physical transmission medium comprises a dielectric material.
12. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the antenna further facilitates receiving a second wireless signal that is converted to a second guided electromagnetic wave that propagates along the physical transmission medium and is received by the coupling device for processing by a receiver.
13. The waveguide system of claim 1, wherein the coupling device comprises a dielectric coupler.
14. A method, comprising: inducing, by a coupling device, a first guided electromagnetic wave on a physical transmission medium, wherein the coupling device has a central axis that is not coaxially aligned with a longitudinal axis of the physical transmission medium, wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein at least a portion of an electromagnetic field structure of the first guided electromagnetic wave is external to the physical transmission medium, and wherein the first guided electromagnetic wave has a wave propagation mode; and responsive to receiving the first guided electromagnetic wave from the physical transmission medium, transmitting, by an antenna, a first wireless signal to facilitate network connectivity with a communication device.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising receiving, by the antenna, from the communication device a second wireless signal that is converted to a second guided electromagnetic wave that propagates along the physical transmission medium and is received by the coupling device for processing by a receiver.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the coupling device comprises a dielectric coupler, and wherein the physical transmission medium comprises a dielectric material.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the wave propagation mode of the first guided electromagnetic wave comprises only a fundamental wave mode.
18. A waveguide system, comprising: a coupling device that facilitates coupling an electromagnetic wave onto a physical transmission medium, wherein a portion of the coupling device is parallel to the physical transmission medium, wherein the coupling device is not coaxially aligned with a longitudinal axis of the physical transmission medium, wherein the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein at least a portion of an electromagnetic field structure of the electromagnetic wave is external to the physical transmission medium, and wherein the electromagnetic wave has a wave propagation mode; and an antenna that facilitates conversion of the electromagnetic wave to a wireless signal directed to a recipient communication device, wherein the wireless signal is in a non-cellular frequency band.
19. The waveguide system of claim 18, wherein the coupling device comprises a dielectric coupler, and wherein the physical transmission medium comprises a dielectric material.
20. The waveguide system of claim 18, wherein the wave propagation mode of the electromagnetic wave comprises only a fundamental wave mode, only a non-fundamental wave mode, or a combination of the fundamental wave mode and the non-fundamental wave mode.
</claims>
</document>
