<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/26,G06F16/9038,G06F16/907,G06F9/54,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASPLUND, MATTHEW WILLEM
ELLIS, CHARLES DAVID
JAGDALE, SAMEER SURENDRA
OLINGER, MATHEW B.
SOBHY DERAZ, EHAB
STREMPLER, CHARLES
WOOLF, MICHAEL JOE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66659178
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modular data insight handling for user application data
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for assisting with providing dataset insights associated with datasets are presented. A dataset and a query relating to the dataset may be received. The dataset may be processed to determine metadata that describes one or more properties of the dataset. The dataset, the determined metadata, and the user query may be provided to one or more modular recommendation elements for processing into an insight result that indicates a result from data analysis directed to the query. The insight result may be transferred in a portable format for use by the productivity application in displaying one or more insight objects based on the insight result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing insight results in a productivity application, the method comprising: receiving a dataset and a user query relating to the dataset; processing the dataset to determine metadata that describes a property of the dataset; providing the dataset, the determined metadata, and the user query to a modular recommendation element; selecting, based on data analysis preferences derived from organizational data analysis traditions, a specific insight type from a plurality of insight types; generating an insight result for the dataset, wherein the insight result has the specific insight type, and wherein the insight result indicates a result from data analysis directed to the query; transferring the insight result for use by the productivity application in displaying an insight object based on the insight result; receiving an indication that a property of the insight object has been modified; modifying, based on the indication, a corresponding value of the dataset; receiving a natural language user query to surface a rationale for why the insight result was generated; and causing a description of why the specific insight type was selected from the plurality of insight types to be surfaced.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a specific function is selected, from a plurality of functions, for processing a plurality of values of the dataset based on the specific function having a same property type assigned to it as a property type described in metadata for the plurality of values of the dataset.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the property comprises one of: column headers associated with the dataset; one or more column footers associated with the dataset; and metadata associated with the dataset comprising a description of value property types associated with one or more values in the dataset.
4. A system for providing dataset insights for a productivity application, the system comprising: a memory for storing executable program code; and a processor, functionally coupled to the memory, the processor being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: receive an indication to generate an insight associated with a dataset; analyze a property associated with the dataset; assign, based on analyzing the property, a category type to a value of the dataset; selecting, based on data analysis preferences derived from organizational data analysis traditions, a specific insight type from a plurality of insight types; generate an insight associated with the dataset, wherein the insight has the specific insight type, and wherein the generating comprises applying a function associated with the category type to the value of the dataset; cause the generated insight to be displayed in a user interface of the productivity application; receive a selection of an element on the displayed insight, wherein the element corresponds to the value of the dataset; modify a property of the displayed insight corresponding to the selection; modify, based on the modification of the property, the value of the dataset; receive a natural language user query to surface a rationale for why the insight was generated; and cause a description of why the specific insight type was selected from the plurality of insight types to be surfaced.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the applied function is selected from a plurality of functions, each of the plurality of functions being associated with one or more value category types, and wherein a function of the plurality of functions can be applied to a value that has a same category type assigned to it as a corresponding function.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the property comprises one of: a column header associated with the dataset; a column footer associated with the dataset; and metadata associated with the dataset comprising a description of the dataset.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein analyzing the property associated with the dataset comprises identifying a pattern associated with a plurality of value in the dataset.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein the specific insight type for the displayed insight is selected from one of: a graph associated with a plurality of values of the dataset; a chart associated with a plurality of values of the dataset; and a pivot table associated with a plurality of values of the dataset.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a second dataset associated with the assigned category type; and utilize one or more values included in the second dataset in at least one of the applied functions.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: receive an indication to provide information associated with one or more criteria utilized in generating the insight; and cause, based on the received indication, a description of the second dataset to be displayed in the user interface of the productivity application, wherein the description of the second dataset comprises one of: a location in the productivity application where the second dataset is located; a file where the second dataset is located; a remote storage location where the second dataset is located; and a web address where the second dataset is located.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: cause metadata associated with the dataset, and historical user data for the productivity application to be cached; receive an indication to generate a second insight associated with the dataset; and cause the second insight to be displayed in a user interface of the productivity application, in an insight type specific to the cached metadata and the cached historical user data.
12. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: receive a modification to a value in the dataset utilized in generating the insight; re-apply at least one of the applied functions to the value based on the received modification; and modify one or more display properties of the displayed insight in the user interface of the productivity application based on the result of the re-applied at least one function.
13. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, assists with providing dataset insights for a productivity application, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the processor for: receiving a user query to generate an insight associated with a dataset; causing, based on an assigned value category type associated with a value of the dataset and data analysis preferences derived from organizational data analysis traditions, a plurality of insight display type categories selectable for generating insight results for the dataset to be displayed in a user interface of the productivity application; receiving a selection of one of the insight display type categories; causing an insight result for the dataset corresponding to the selected insight display type category to be displayed in the user interface of the productivity application; receiving a selection of an element on the displayed insight result, wherein the element corresponds to the value of the dataset; modifying a property of the displayed insight result corresponding to the selection; modifying, based on the modification of the property, the value of the dataset; receiving a natural language user query to surface a rationale for why the insight result was displayed; and causing a description of why the insight result was displayed to be surfaced, wherein the description provides an indication of the data analysis preferences derived from the organizational data analysis traditions.
14. The computer-readable storage device of claim 13, wherein the value category type associated with the value of the dataset is assigned based on at least one of: data included in one or more column headers associated with the dataset; data included in one or more column footers associated with the dataset; and user-provided data that describes the one or more values of the dataset.
15. The computer-readable storage device of claim 13, wherein the instructions are further executable by the processor for: receiving an API call-in from the productivity application for the insight; and sending, based on the API call-in, the user query, and the assigned value category type associated with the value of the dataset, the insight result to the productivity application in a standardized output for interpretation by a plurality of application types.
</claims>
</document>
