<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/3888,H04B17/10,H04B17/18,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SZE, CHIN NGAI
WANG ZHENNAN
ROZNER, ERIC J.
PHUNG, MAGGIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58053739
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic self-protection for a portable electronic device
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are techniques for automatically protecting portable and wearable electronic devices from potential hazards by predicting when such hazards may occur. Techniques may include monitoring a plurality of sensors on the mobile computing device; receiving, on the mobile computing device, context data from a plurality of context-service applications; selecting a set of device-protection policies based upon an availability of the plurality of sensors and the plurality of context-service applications, wherein the set of device-protection policies are configured to determine a level of risk to the mobile computing device based on sensor data received from the plurality of sensors and the context data; applying, the sensor data and the context data to the set of device-protection policies to generate the level of risk; and triggering a self-protection action if the level of risk exceeds a pre-determined threshold level of risk.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for protecting a mobile computing device, comprising: monitoring a plurality of sensors on the mobile computing device that each gather data on a vicinity of the mobile computing device in a current physical state of the mobile computing device; identifying a potential future physical state of the mobile computing device that relates to an immediate onset of potential hazard to the mobile computing device based upon sensor data from the plurality of sensors and context data regarding the vicinity of the mobile computing device; calculating a level of risk associated with a likelihood of the current physical state turning into the potential future physical state; and triggering, by the mobile computing device, a self-protection action to mitigate a danger of the mobile computing device in response to the level of risk exceeding a pre-determined threshold level of risk.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are selected from a list, the list consisting of: a motion sensor; an environmental sensor; and a position sensor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the context data is received from a networkbased service.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the context data is received from an application executing on the mobile computing device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the self-protection action comprises controlling the mobile computing device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the controlling the mobile computing device comprises powering off the mobile computing device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the self-protection action comprises controlling a device other than the mobile computing device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the self-protection action is based upon a selfprotection policy, the policy generated by a method, the method comprising: collecting historical data corresponding to a plurality of failures of a plurality of mobile computing devices; and data mining the historical data to identify a particular source of failure of the plurality of failures.
9. The method of claim 1, the self-protection action is based upon a selfprotection policy, the policy based upon crowd-sourced scenarios of a plurality of failures on other mobile computing devices.
10. A mobile computing device, comprising: a plurality of processors; a non-transitory computer-readable recording medium coupled to the plurality of processors; a plurality of sensors; and logic, stored on the computer-readable recording medium and executed on the plurality of processors, to perform a method the method comprising: monitoring the plurality of sensors on the mobile computing device that each gather data on a vicinity of the mobile computing device in a current physical state of the mobile computing device; identifying a potential future physical state of the mobile computing device that relates to an immediate onset of potential hazard to the mobile computing device based upon sensor data from the plurality of sensors and context data regarding the vicinity of the mobile computing device; calculating a level of risk associated with a likelihood of the current physical state turning into the potential future physical state; and triggering, by the mobile computing device, a self-protection action to mitigate a danger of the mobile computing device in response to the level of risk exceeding a pre-determined threshold level of risk.
11. The mobile computing device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sensors are selected from a list, the list consisting of: a motion sensor; an environmental sensor; and a position sensor.
12. The mobile computing device of claim 10, wherein the context data is received from a network-based service.
13. The mobile computing device of claim 10, wherein the context data is received from an application executing on the mobile computing device.
14. The mobile computing device of claim 10, wherein the self-protection action is based upon a self-protection policy, the policy generated by a method, the method comprising: collecting historical data corresponding to a plurality of failures of a plurality of mobile computing devices; and data mining the historical data to identify a particular source of failure of the plurality of failures.
15. The mobile computing device of claim 10, wherein the self-protection action is based upon a self-protection policy, the policy based upon crowd-sourced scenarios of a plurality of failures on other mobile computing devices.
16. A computer programming product for protecting a mobile computing device comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by a plurality of processors to perform a method comprising, comprising: monitoring a plurality of sensors on the mobile computing device that each gather data on a vicinity of the mobile computing device in a current physical state of the mobile computing device; identifying a potential future physical state of the mobile computing device that relates to an immediate onset of potential hazard to the mobile computing device based upon sensor data from the plurality of sensors and context data regarding the vicinity of the mobile computing device; calculating a level of risk associated with a likelihood of the current physical state turning into the potential future physical state; and triggering, by the mobile computing device, a self-protection action to mitigate a danger of the mobile computing device in response to the level of risk exceeding a pre-determined threshold level of risk.
17. The computer programming product of claim 16, wherein the plurality of sensors are selected from a list, the list consisting of: a motion sensor; an environmental sensor; and a position sensor.
18. The computer programming product of claim 16, wherein the self-protection action comprises controlling the mobile computing device.
19. The computer programming product of claim 16, wherein the self-protection action is based upon a self-protection policy, the policy generated by a method, the method comprising: collecting historical data corresponding to a plurality of failures of a plurality of mobile computing devices; and data mining the historical data to identify a particular source of failure of the plurality of failures.
20. The computer programming product of claim 16, wherein the self-protection action is based upon a self-protection policy, the policy based upon crowd-sourced scenarios of a plurality of failures on other mobile computing devices.
</claims>
</document>
