<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W4/00,H04W72/04,H04W8/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
MAJMUNDAR, MILAP
NOVLAN, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65036893
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integrated access backhaul under a non-standalone network architecture for 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
In a 5G network, new radios (NR) can be deployed as a standalone radio access technology or as a non-standalone radio access technology assisted by another radio access technology. Long-term evolution (LTE), which is widely deployed can provide seamless coverage and uninterrupted connectivity, however NRs can provide significantly increased data rates or new services. However, the deployment of NR can be limited to hotspots under the footprint of LTE. Therefore, dual connectivity between LTE and NR can be utilized for non-standalone NR because control plane functions can be sent over LTE while the data plane can be managed on NR, allowing for simplified NR deployments where device support for both LTE and NR is available.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: facilitating, by a first wireless network device comprising a processor, transmitting first control plane signaling update request data, representative of a first control plane signaling update request for a control plane signaling update, to a base station device; in response to the facilitating of the transmitting, facilitating, by the first wireless network device, receiving the control plane signaling update from the base station device; receiving, by the first wireless network device, second control plane signaling update request data representative of second control plane signaling update requests; in response to the receiving the second control plane signaling update request data, aggregating, by the first wireless network device, the second control plane signaling update requests resulting in aggregated second control plane signaling update requests; sending, by the first wireless network device, the aggregated second control plane signaling update requests to the base station device on behalf of node devices; based on the facilitating the receiving, facilitating, by the first wireless network device, receiving a data plane signaling update, representative of a data plane update, from a second wireless network device; and in response to the facilitating of the receiving the control plane signaling update and data plane signaling update, facilitating, by the first wireless network device, relaying the data plane signaling update to a mobile device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the facilitating of the transmitting the control plane signaling update is performed in response to a routing change event being determined to have occurred.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the control plane signaling update is received in response to a topology change event being determined to have occurred.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first wireless network device is configured to be a primary node device capable of transmitting the second control signaling update request on behalf of a secondary node device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the first wireless network device is configured to be the primary node device based on a hop order associated with the first wireless network device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the control plane signaling update comprises radio link data representative of one or more radio link measurements.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the control plane signaling update comprises instruction data representative of an instruction to perform a routing change.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: sending, to a base station device, first control plane signaling update request data associated with a first control plane signaling update request for control plane signaling updates; in response to the sending, receiving, from the base station device, the control plane signaling updates; receiving, from node devices, second control plane signaling update request data representative of second control plane signaling update requests; in response to the receiving the second control plane signaling update request data, aggregating the second control plane signaling update requests to generate a third control plane signaling update request representative of aggregated second control plane signaling update requests; based on the receiving the control plane signaling updates, receiving, from a wireless network device of a wireless network, a data plane signaling update; and in response to the receiving the control plane signaling updates and data plane signaling update, relaying the data plane signaling update to a user device of the wireless network.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the first control plane signaling update request data comprises routing update request data representative of a routing update request.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the first control plane signaling update request data comprises update request data representative of a backhaul link radio resource configuration update request.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the first control plane signaling update request data is received within a unicast control message.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the receiving the control plane signaling updates occurs concurrently with a node device, of the node devices, receiving the control plane signaling updates.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: sending the aggregated second control plane signaling update requests to the base station device on behalf of the node devices.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the receiving the control plane signaling updates comprises: in response to the sending the aggregated second control plane signaling update requests, receiving the control plane signaling updates to be sent to the node devices.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: transmitting, to a base station device, routing update request data representative of a routing update request for a routing update; in response to the transmitting, receiving the routing update from the base station device; receiving, from node devices, first control plane signaling update request data representative of first control plane signaling update requests; in response to the receiving the first control plane signaling update request data, aggregating the first control plane signaling update requests to generate a second control plane signaling update request representative of aggregated first control plane signaling update requests; in response to sending the aggregated first control plane signaling update requests, receiving, from the base station device, control plane signaling updates to be sent to the node devices; based on the receiving the routing update, receiving, from the base station device, topology update data representative of a topology update; and transmitting, to the base station device, an acknowledgement associated with the receiving the topology update data.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the routing update request is a first routing update request, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a second routing update request, from a node device, to be transmitted to the base station device.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the topology update is a first topology update, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a second topology update from a node device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: aggregating the first topology update and the second topology update to generate a third topology update comprising the first topology update and the second topology update.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the receiving the topology update data comprises receiving the topology update data concurrently with a node device receiving the topology update data.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the routing update is received within a unicast control message.
</claims>
</document>
