<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F1/00,G03F1/36,G03F7/20,G06F17/50,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KLA-TENCOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AZORDEGAN, AMIR
CHANG, WEI
DIGHE, PRASANNA
GUTIERREZ, JOSEPH
MACNAUGHTON, CRAIG
OLAVARRIA, RAMON
RAO, KRISHNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53540163
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Statistical overlay error prediction for feed forward and feedback correction of overlay errors, root cause analysis and process control
</title>

<abstract>
A method to collect data and train, validate and deploy statistical models to predict overlay errors using patterned wafer geometry data and other relevant information includes selecting a training wafer set, measuring at multiple lithography steps and calculating geometry differences, applying a plurality of predictive models to the training wafer geometry differences and comparing predicted overlay to the measured overlay on the training wafer set. The most accurate predictive model is identified and the results fed-forward to the lithography scanner tool which can correct for these effects and reduce overlay errors during the wafer scan-and-expose processes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; memory connected to the processor; and computer executable program code stored in the memory and configured to execute on the processor, wherein the computer executable program code configures the processor to: receive one or more training wafer profiles corresponding to one or more error correlated parameters of one or more training wafers, wherein the one or more error correlated parameters comprises at least one of a wafer geometry parameter, a process parameter or a lithography scanner parameter; identify training wafer profiles representing heterogeneous error correlated parameters; organize the training wafer profiles into a plurality of homogeneous groups; apply a plurality of overlay error predictive models to the training wafer profiles to produce corresponding predicted overlay error profiles; receive one or more training wafer error profiles; compare the training wafer error profiles to the plurality of predicted overlay error profiles to determine a best fit overlay error predictive model from the plurality of overlay error predictive models; and determine a correction to a lithographic overlay process based on the best fit overlay error predictive model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to: receive one or more validation wafer profiles corresponding to one or more error correlated parameters of one or more validation wafers; apply the best fit overlay error predictive model to the one or more validation wafer profiles to produce one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; receive one or more validation wafer error profiles; compare the one or more validation wafer error profiles to the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; and determine that the one or more validation wafer error profiles differ from the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles by a quantity less than some threshold.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to apply the correction to subsequent lithographic overlay processes of one or more production wafers.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a neural network based on the one or more error correlated parameters.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a random forest algorithm on the one or more error correlated parameters.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to analyze the one or more training wafer profiles to determine a primary geometry parameter responsible for an overlay error.
7. A metrology system comprising: a processor; a wafer scanning device connected to the processor; memory connected to the processor; and computer executable program code configured to execute on the processor, wherein the computer executable program code configures the processor to: scan one or more training wafers to determine one or more error correlated parameters of the training wafers, wherein the one or more error correlated parameters comprises at least one of a wafer geometry parameter, a process parameter or a lithography scanner parameter; produce one or more training wafer profiles corresponding to the one or more error correlated parameters of the one or more training wafers; identify training wafer profiles representing heterogeneous error correlated parameters; organize the training wafer profiles into a plurality of homogeneous groups; apply a plurality of overlay error predictive models to the training wafer profiles to produce corresponding predicted overlay error profiles; scan the one or more training wafer to determine one or more training wafer error profiles; compare the training wafer error profiles to the plurality of predicted overlay error profiles to determine a best fit overlay error predictive model from the plurality of overlay error predictive models; and determine a correction to a lithographic overlay process based on the best fit overlay error predictive model.
8. The metrology system of claim 7, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to: scan one or more validation wafers to determine one or more validation wafer profiles corresponding to one or more error correlated parameters of the one or more validation wafers; apply the best fit overlay error predictive model to the one or more validation wafer profiles to produce one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; scan the one or more validation wafers to determine one or more validation wafer error profiles; compare the one or more validation wafer error profiles to the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; and determine that the one or more validation wafer error profiles differ from the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles by a quantity less than some threshold.
9. The metrology system of claim 7, further comprising a lithographic overlay exposure device connected to the processor, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to apply the correction to the lithographic overlay exposure device during a subsequent lithographic overlay processes of one or more production wafers.
10. The metrology system of claim 7, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a neural network based on the one or more error correlated parameters.
11. The metrology system of claim 7, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a random forest algorithm on the one or more error correlated parameters.
12. The metrology system of claim 7, wherein the computer executable program code further configures the processor to analyze the one or more training wafer profiles to determine a primary geometry parameter responsible for an overlay error.
13. A method comprising: scanning one or more training wafers to determine one or more error correlated parameters of the training wafers; producing one or more training wafer profiles corresponding to the one or more error correlated parameters of the one or more training wafers, wherein the one or more error correlated parameters comprises at least one of a wafer geometry parameter, a process parameter or a lithography scanner parameter; identifying training wafer profiles representing heterogeneous error correlated parameters; organizing the training wafer profiles into a plurality of homogeneous groups; applying a plurality of overlay error predictive models to the training wafer profiles with a computer processor to produce corresponding predicted overlay error profiles; scanning the one or more training wafer to determine one or more training wafer error profiles; comparing the training wafer error profiles to the plurality of predicted overlay error profiles with the computer processor to determine a best fit overlay error predictive model from the plurality of overlay error predictive models; and determining a correction to a lithographic overlay process based on the best fit overlay error predictive model with the computer processor.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising scanning one or more validation wafers to determine one or more validation wafer profiles corresponding to one or more error correlated parameters of the one or more validation wafers; applying the best fit overlay error predictive model to the one or more validation wafer profiles to produce one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; scanning the one or more validation wafers to determine one or more validation wafer error profiles; compare the one or more validation wafer error profiles to the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles; and determine that the one or more validation wafer error profiles differ from the one or more predicted valid overlay error profiles by a quantity less than some threshold.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a neural network based on the one or more error correlated parameters.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein applying the plurality of overlay error predictive models comprises executing a random forest algorithm on the one or more error correlated parameters.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising analyzing the one or more training wafer profiles to determine a primary geometry parameter responsible for an overlay error.
18. A method comprising: receiving one or more training wafer profiles corresponding to one or more error correlated parameters of one or more training wafers, wherein the one or more error correlated parameters comprise: at least one of a wafer shape, a wafer flatness, a chip layout, a film stack thickness, and a lithography scanner setting; identifying training wafer profiles representing heterogeneous error correlated parameters; organizing the training wafer profiles into a plurality of homogeneous groups; applying a plurality of overlay error predictive models to the training wafer profiles to produce corresponding predicted overlay error profiles; receiving one or more training wafer error profiles; comparing the training wafer error profiles to the plurality of predicted overlay error profiles to determine a best fit overlay error predictive model from the plurality of overlay error predictive models; and determining a correction to a lithographic overlay process based on the best fit overlay error predictive model.
</claims>
</document>
