<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/907,G06F16/9537,G06F16/957,G06F17/00,G06F17/21,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSINDERO, SIMON KAYODE
JAROS, ROBERT
WILLIS, ERIC
SVETLICHNAYA, ANASTASIA
MELLINA, CLAYTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50882426
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic content mapping
</title>

<abstract>
A representation of a collection of content items is generated for display by a computing device. The representation includes a two-or-more-dimensional arrangement including representations of the content items. The representations of the content items are positioned relative to one another based, at least in part, on values of one or more attributes of the digital content items. The representation is dynamically adjusted based, at least in part, on a user interaction with a representation of one of the content items.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating, using at least one processor, a representation of a collection of content items for presentation within a web page via a display device of a computing device, wherein the representation of the collection of content items includes a two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement of representations of a plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items, the representations of the plurality of individual content items being positioned relative to one another within the two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement based, at least in part, on a degree of similarity of values of one or more attributes of the plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items such that representations of two or more content items of the plurality of individual content items, for which attribute values have a high degree of similarity, are positioned in close proximity to one another within the representation of the collection of content items; and dynamically adjusting, using the at least one processor, the representation of the collection of content items within the web page based, at least in part, on one or more factors inferred from an indication of user interaction with a representation of one or more particular content items within the representation of the collection of content items, wherein the dynamically adjusting comprises dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items to alter an amount of content items displayed and modify an amount of dimensions depicted.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying the amount of dimensions depicted comprises reducing an amount of dimensions depicted in the representation of the collection of content items.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the reducing the amount of dimensions depicted comprises dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items from a substantially three-dimensional arrangement to a substantially two-dimensional arrangement.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items comprises zooming to a particular subset of the plurality of individual content items.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items comprises performing a pan operation based, at least in part, on one or more weighted factors determined at least in part via the user interaction, wherein the user interaction does not explicitly identify the one or more weighted factors.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of individual content items comprise digital content items, the method comprising: determining the degree of similarity among the plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items based, at least in part, on corresponding values of at least one of the one or more attributes; and positioning the representations of the plurality of individual content items relative to one another within the two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement based, at least in part, on the degree of similarity among the plurality of individual content items.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more attributes comprise one or more image-based attributes, the one or more image-based attributes including at least one of color or shape.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user interaction includes selection of a representation of a particular content item of the plurality of individual content items.
9. The method of claim 1, the two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement comprising a grid including the representations of the plurality of individual content items within the collection of content items.
10. The method of claim 1, the one or more attributes comprising one or more of one or more audio-type features or one or more social attributes.
11. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor configured to: generate a representation of a collection of content items for presentation within a web page via a display of a computing device, the representation of the collection of content items including a two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement of representations of a plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items, the representations of the plurality of individual content items positioned relative to one another within the two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement based, at least in part, on a degree of similarity of values of one or more attributes of the plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items such that representations of two or more content items of the plurality of individual content items, for which attribute values have a high degree of similarity, are positioned in close proximity to one another within the representation of the collection of content items; and dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items within the web page based, at least in part, on one or more factors inferred from an indication of a user interaction with a representation of one or more particular content items within the representation of the collection of content items, wherein the dynamically adjusting comprises dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items to alter an amount of content items displayed and modify an amount of dimensions depicted.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, the one or more attributes comprising one or more audio-type features.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, the one or more attributes comprising one or more social attributes.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, the processor configured to dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items to zoom to a particular subset of the plurality of individual content items.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, the processor configured to dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items based, at least in part, on one or more weighted factors pertaining to at least one attribute of the one or more attributes.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, the processor configured to dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items by performing at least one of a pan operation or a filter operation based, at least in part, on one or more weighted factors pertaining to at least one attribute of the one or more attributes.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, the processor configured to position the plurality of individual content items relative to one another based, at least in part, on a degree of similarity among the plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items, the degree of similarity among the plurality of individual content items indicated by corresponding values of at least one attribute of the one or more attributes.
18. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the one or more attributes comprise one or more image-based attributes, the one or more image-based attributes including at least one of color or shape.
19. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the user interaction includes selection of a representation of a particular content item of the plurality of individual content items.
20. A computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium having computer program instructions stored thereon, the computer program instructions being configured such that, when executed by one or more processors, the computer program instructions cause the one or more processors to: generate a representation of a collection of content items for display within a web page via a display device, the representation of the collection of content items including a two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement of representations of a plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items, the representations of the plurality of individual content items being positioned relative to one another within the two-or-more-dimensional spatial arrangement based, at least in part, on a degree of similarity of values of one or more attributes of the plurality of individual content items of the collection of content items such that representations of two or more content items of the plurality of individual content items, for which attribute values have a high degree of similarity, are positioned in close proximity to one another within the representation of the collection of content items; and dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items within the web page based, at least in part, on one or more factors inferred from an indication of a user interaction with a representation of one or more particular content items within the representation of the collection of content items, wherein the dynamically adjusting comprises dynamically adjusting the representation of the collection of content items to alter an amount of content items displayed and modify an amount of dimensions depicted.
21. The computer program product of claim 20, the computer program instructions configured to dynamically adjust the representation of the collection of content items to alter an amount of content items depicted within the representation of the collection of content items.
</claims>
</document>
