<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/245,G06F16/2452,G06F16/2453,G06F16/2458,G06F16/248,G06F17/18,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TIBCO SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HILL, THOMAS
BUTLER, GEORGE R.
RASTUNKOV, VLADIMIR S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59786641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Auto query construction for in-database predictive analytics
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and computer-readable medium for performing an auto-query construction operation for use with a distributed analytics operation. More specifically, in certain embodiments, the auto-query construction operation provides automatically generates SQL code instructions via an auto-query construction user interface (UI) settings in a computational system, such as the Dell Statistica computational system. The auto-query construction operation allows a user to interact with a common interface to provide query information including decision variables, parameters of an analysis and convergence criteria. The query information provided via the UI is automatically transformed to database queries and subsequent computation system operations. Thus, the user experience remains intact whether the analytics is performed in database or within the computation system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implementable method for performing in-database operations, comprising: presenting an auto-query construction user interface to a user, the auto-query construction user interface enabling a user to provide input variables to an auto-query construction system; constructing a database query based upon the input variables provided via the auto-query construction user interface within a node of a workspace environment; instantiating an in-database processing operation in the auto-query construction system within the node of the workspace environment based upon the database query; converting the instantiation of the in-database processing operation to at least one database statement; providing the at least one database statement from the auto-query construction system to a storage system configured to perform distributed computations, wherein providing causes the execution of the at least one database statement within the storage system; and, wherein constructing the database query includes accessing the auto-query construction user interface to query for aggregators engine, identifying a statistics analytics task or a predictive analytics task selected by the user via the auto-query construction user interface, and retrieving input descriptor information associated with the input variables for performing the task; wherein constructing the database query is further based on a target database, query dialect, and at least one of a correlation pattern, regression pattern, cluster pattern, decision tree pattern, and association rules pattern; wherein converting the in-database operation to the at least one database statement is based, at least in part, on the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task selected by the user; the results from the execution of the at least one database statement comprise aggregate values, the aggregate values being transferred from the storage system to the workspace environment, the workspace environment finalizing parameters for the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task based upon the aggregate values.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: distributing the at least one database statement across a plurality of nodes of the storage system; and, executing the at least one database statement at each of the plurality of nodes of the storage system.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing results from the execution of the at least one database statement to the node of the workspace environment.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the predictive modeling algorithm relying entirely on queries to the storage system.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: the predictive modeling algorithm comprises data-processing intensive algorithms.
6. A system comprising: a processor; a data bus coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the processor and configured for: presenting an auto-query construction user interface to a user, the auto-query construction user interface enabling a user to provide input variables to an auto-query construction system; constructing a database query based upon the input variables provided via the auto-query construction user interface within a node of a workspace environment; instantiating an in-database processing operation in the auto-query construction system within the node of the workspace environment based upon the database query; converting the instantiation of the in-database processing operation to at least one database statement; providing the at least one database statement from the auto-query construction system to a storage system configured to perform distributed computations, wherein providing causes the execution of the at least one database statement within the storage system; and, wherein constructing the database query includes accessing the auto-query construction user interface to query for aggregators engine, identifying a statistics analytics task or a predictive analytics task selected by the user via the auto-query construction user interface, and retrieving input descriptor information associated with the input variables for performing the task; wherein constructing the database query is further based on a target database, query dialect, and at least one of a correlation pattern, regression pattern, cluster pattern, decision tree pattern, and association rules pattern; wherein converting the in-database operation to the at least one database statement is based, at least in part, on the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task selected by the user; the results from the execution of the at least one database statement comprise aggregate values, the aggregate values being transferred from the storage system to the workspace environment, the workspace environment finalizing parameters for the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task based upon the aggregate values.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the instructions are further configured for: distributing the at least one database statement across a plurality of nodes of the storage system; and, executing the at least one database statement at each of the plurality of nodes of the storage system.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the instructions are further configured for: providing results from the execution of the at least one database statement to the node of the workspace environment.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein the predictive modeling algorithm relying entirely on queries to the storage system.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the predictive modeling algorithm comprises data-processing intensive algorithms.
11. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: presenting an auto-query construction user interface to a user, the auto-query construction user interface enabling a user to provide input variables to an auto-query construction system; constructing a database query based upon the input variables provided via the auto-query construction user interface within a node of a workspace environment; instantiating an in-database processing operation in the auto-query construction system within the node of the workspace environment based upon the database query; converting the instantiation of the in-database processing operation to at least one database statement; providing the at least one database statement from the auto-query construction system to a storage system configured to perform distributed computations, wherein providing causes the execution of the at least one database statement within the storage system; and, wherein constructing the database query includes accessing the auto-query construction user interface to query for aggregators engine, identifying a statistics analytics task or a predictive analytics task selected by the user via the auto-query construction user interface, and retrieving input descriptor information associated with the input variables for performing the task; wherein constructing the database query is further based on a target database, query dialect, and at least one of a correlation pattern, regression pattern, cluster pattern, decision tree pattern, and association rules pattern; wherein converting the in-database operation to the at least one database statement is based, at least in part, on the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task selected by the user; the results from the execution of the at least one database statement comprise aggregate values, the aggregate values being transferred from the storage system to the workspace environment, the workspace environment finalizing parameters for the statistics analytics task or the predictive analytics task based upon the aggregate values.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further configured for: distributing the at least one database statement across a plurality of nodes of the storage system; and, executing the at least one database statement at each of the plurality of nodes of the storage system.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions are further configured for: providing results from the execution of the at least one database statement to the node of the workspace environment.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the predictive modeling algorithm relying entirely on queries to the storage system.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein: the predictive modeling algorithm comprises data-processing intensive algorithms.
</claims>
</document>
