<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B21/00,G02B21/36,G03B21/00,G03B21/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRUNWALD, DAVID
SMITH, CARLAS
HUISMAN, MAXIMILIAAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69106171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and methods of fluorescence microscope calibration
</title>

<abstract>
The described embodiments are directed to a system and methods of calibrating a fluorescence microscope and/or light detection device using a calibrating apparatus. The apparatus may comprise a main body housing, a sensor head, and a microcontroller assembly disposed within the housing. The housing may include an adapter to mechanically couple the housing to a microscope. The sensor head may comprise (i) an optical power sensor to produce a power signal representative of an optical power magnitude of light applied to the optical power sensor, (ii) an optical wavelength sensor configured to produce wavelength information associated with the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor, and (iii) a light source configured to direct light toward a detection device associated with the microscope. The microcontroller assembly may be configured to generate an optical power magnitude value based on the power signal and adjusted according to the wavelength information.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for calibrating a microscope, comprising: a main body housing having an adapter configured to mechanically couple the main body housing to a microscope; a sensor head disposed within the main body housing, the sensor head comprising (i) an optical power sensor configured to produce a power signal representative of an optical power magnitude of light applied to the optical power sensor, and (ii) an optical wavelength sensor configured to produce wavelength information associated with the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor; and a microcontroller assembly in communication with the sensor head, the microcontroller assembly configured to generate an optical power magnitude value based on the power signal and to adjust the optical power magnitude value according to the wavelength information.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical wavelength sensor comprises a red-green-blue (RGB) optical sensor.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the optical power magnitude value is further adjusted according to a temperature of the optical power sensor.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller assembly comprises a display, and wherein the microcontroller assembly is further configured to produce a calibration result based on the optical power magnitude value and to display the calibration result on the display.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the light applied to the optical power sensor is excitation light that the microscope uses to illuminate a specimen.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor head further comprises a light source.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the light source is a broad-spectrum light source.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the light source is a multi-color light emitting diode.
9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the optical power sensor has a reflective surface, and the light source is configured to direct light toward a detection device by directing the light toward the reflective surface, thereby reflecting the light through a main aperture of the apparatus.
10. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the sensor head further comprises a temperature sensor and one or more light sensors.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising at least one of a converging lens, an iris, and light filter disposed within the main body housing.
12. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller assembly further generates an estimate of a wavelength of the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor based on the wavelength information, generates the optical power magnitude value based on the power signal, and adjusts the optical power magnitude value according to the estimate of the wavelength of the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor.
13. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the microcontroller assembly further comprises a wireless transceiver configured to wirelessly communicate with external transceiver connected to a communications network.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the communications network is the Internet.
15. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising a reflector assembly comprising: a reflective surfaces assembly including an interior surface defining a central opening; one or more reflective surfaces radially distributed about the interior surface of the reflective surfaces assembly; one or more reflective elements attached to a mount and positioned within the central opening in a path of incoming or outgoing light; and a selector mechanism mechanically linked to the mount such that movement of the selector mechanism rotates the mount to adjust an angle of the one or more reflective elements to direct the incoming or outgoing light to the one or more reflective surfaces where the light is then reflected onto the one or more sensors.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more reflective elements is a dichroic mirror or a prism.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the one or more reflective surfaces is a convex surface.
18. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is coupled, using the adapter, to an objective mounting aperture of an objective turret of the microscope.
19. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an orientation sensor that produces an orientation signal representative of an orientation of the apparatus, and wherein the microcontroller assembly initiates an excitation calibration procedure when the orientation signal indicates that the apparatus is in an active objective position.
20. An apparatus for calibrating a microscope, comprising: a main body housing having an adapter configured to mechanically couple the main body housing to a microscope; a sensor head disposed within the main body housing, the sensor head comprising (i) an optical power sensor configured to produce a power signal representative of an optical power magnitude of light applied to the optical power sensor, (ii) an optical wavelength sensor configured to produce wavelength information associated with the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor, and (iii) a light source configured to direct light toward a detection device associated with the microscope; and a microcontroller assembly in communication with the sensor head, the microcontroller assembly configured to generate an optical power magnitude value based on the power signal and to adjust the optical power magnitude value according to the wavelength information, the microcontroller assembly further configured to calibrate the microscope and/or the detection device associated with the microscope.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein a component on the sensor head has a reflective surface, and the light source is configured to direct light toward a detection device by directing the light toward the reflective surface, thereby reflecting the light from the reflective surface and through a main aperture of the apparatus toward the detection device.
22. A method of calibrating a detection device comprising: providing an apparatus comprising: a main body housing having an adapter configured to mechanically couple the main body housing to a microscope; a sensor head disposed within the main body housing, the sensor head comprising (i) an optical power sensor configured to produce a power signal representative of an optical power magnitude of light applied to the optical power sensor, (ii) an optical wavelength sensor configured to produce wavelength information associated with the light applied to the optical wavelength sensor, and (iii) a light source configured to direct light toward a detection device associated with the microscope; and a microcontroller assembly in communication with the sensor head, the microcontroller assembly configured to generate an optical power magnitude value based on the power signal and adjusted according to the wavelength information; attaching the apparatus to the microscope or the detection device; emitting light from the light source disposed on the sensor head; detecting the light by a light sensor disposed on the sensor head; calculating an intensity of light emitted by the light source; measuring an intensity of light detected by the detection device; comparing the intensity of light emitted by the calibration apparatus to the intensity of light detected by the microscope or light detector; and calibrating, by the apparatus, the microscope or detection device based upon a difference in intensity of light emitted by the apparatus and the intensity of light detected by the microscope or detection device.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein emitting light from the light source further comprises generating a series of linearly increasing intensity ramps of light, and capturing, by the microscope or detection device, an image of each of the series of linearly increasing intensity ramps of light.
24. The method of claim 22, further comprising comparing an intensity of light, detected by the microscope or the light detector in each of the series of linearly increasing intensity ramps of light, to an intensity of light emitted by the light source for each of the series of linearly increasing intensity ramps of light.
25. The method of claim 22, further comprising measuring the optical power magnitude value and storing the measured optical power magnitude value.
</claims>
</document>
