<document>

<filing_date>
2014-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/024,A61B5/08,A61B7/00,A61B7/04,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CSD LABS GMBH
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCHRIEFL, ANDREAS J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50774833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated diagnosis-assisting medical devices utilizing rate/frequency estimation
</title>

<abstract>
A method for processing a quasi-periodic signal includes receiving a representation of a quasi-periodic signal and removing a DC component from the received signal to produce a purely time-varying signal. The time-varying signal is filtered to produce a pre-processed signal and at least a portion of a representation of the pre-processed signal is auto-correlated with itself. A corresponding auto-correlation output is stored in a memory device for the at least portion of the representation of the pre-processed signal. A biphasic tapering function is applied to the auto-correlation output, the tapering function including a time constant parameter that is a function of the quasi-periodic signal and producing a first maximum. A representation, based on the first maximum, is stored in the memory device as an indication of a rate or a frequency of the quasi-periodic signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a rate or frequency of a quasi-periodic signal obtained from a portable electronic device to suggest a diagnosis finding or suggestion, the method comprising: receiving, using a controller, a representation of a quasi-periodic signal obtained from a portable electronic device configured to detect a heartbeat or a respiration; removing, using the controller, a DC component from the received signal to produce a purely time-varying signal; filtering, using the controller, the time-varying signal to produce a pre-processed signal; auto-correlating, using the controller, at least a portion of a representation of the pre-processed signal with itself and storing in a memory device a corresponding auto-correlation output for the at least a portion of the representation of the pre-processed signal; applying, using the controller, a biphasic tapering function to the auto-correlation output, the biphasic tapering function including a linear increase phase and an exponential decline phase and a time constant parameter that is a function of the quasi-periodic signal, the biphasic tapering function producing a first maximum, the time constant parameter being in a range of 0.6 to 0.3; storing in the memory device a representation, based on the first maximum, as an indication of a rate or a frequency of the quasi-periodic signal, wherein the representation of the quasi-periodic signal includes one or more of a heartbeat rate of a heartbeat and a respiration rate, and wherein the quasi-periodic signal is a phonocardiogram of the heartbeat or respiration; defining, using the controller, a search window having a width based on the stored representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal; defining, using the controller, the first maximum as a starting position; cross-correlating, using the controller, at least a portion of the quasi-periodic signal in the search window including the starting position with a template signal pattern to be matched to produce a second maximum; determining using the controller a second representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal based on at least the first maximum and the second maximum; causing the second representation to be displayed on an electronic display device, the second representation indicating the rate or the frequency of the detected heartbeat or the respiration; using the detected heartbeat or the respiration to suggest an automated diagnosis suggestion or finding relating to the detected heartbeat or the respiration, wherein the automated diagnosis suggestion or finding related to finding the detected heartbeat includes a heart defect or a heart murmur, and wherein the automated diagnosis or finding related to finding the detected respiration includes a breathing defect; and causing the diagnosis suggestion or finding to be displayed or communicated.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising sharing, via a data connection, the stored representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency with a hospital information system.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: retrieving, using the controller, a patient list from the hospital information system; selecting, using a selection input, a patient from the patient list; obtaining raw auscultation data from the patient; determining, using the controller, patient specific parameters based on the raw auscultation data; and transferring, via the data connection, to the hospital information system one or more of patient data, the raw auscultation data obtained from the patient, the patient specific parameters, and a diagnosis suggestion.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining raw auscultation data of the quasi-periodic signal; sending, via a data connection, the raw auscultation data of the quasi-periodic signal to a hospital information system; analyzing, using another controller of the hospital information system, the raw data; and storing, on a memory device of the hospital information system, results of the analysis for later review by a medical professional.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering is wavelet filtering in which the signal is decomposed into detail and approximation coefficients.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising splitting, using the controller, the pre-processed signal into progressively smaller time domains.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the producing of the first maximum includes utilizing statistical measures.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting representative positions of all maxima including the first maximum and the second maximum to indicate the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal.
9. A system for determining a rate or frequency of a quasi-periodic signal obtained from a portable electronic device to support a diagnosis finding or suggestion, the system comprising: a processor; and a memory device with stored instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to: receive a representation of the quasi-periodic signal obtained from a portable electronic device configured to detect a heartbeat or a respiration, remove a DC component from the received signal to produce a purely time-varying signal, filter, the time-varying signal to produce a pre-processed signal, auto-correlate, at least a portion of a representation of the pre-processed signal with itself, store in the memory device a corresponding auto-correlation output for the at least portion of the representation of the pre-processed signal, apply a biphasic tapering function to the auto-correlation output, the tapering function including a linear increase phase and an exponential decline phase and a time constant parameter that is a function of the quasi-periodic signal, the tapering function producing a first maximum, the time constant parameter being in a range of 0.6 to 0.3, store in the memory device a representation, based on the first maximum, as an indication of a rate or a frequency of the quasi-periodic signal, wherein the representation of the quasi-periodic signal includes one or more of a heartbeat rate and a respiration rate, and wherein the quasi-periodic signal is a phonocardiogram of the heartbeat or respiration, define a search window having a width based on the stored representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal; define the first maximum as a starting position; cross-correlate at least a portion of the quasi-periodic signal in the search window including the starting position with a template signal pattern to be matched to produce a second maximum; determine a second representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal based on at least the first maximum and the second maximum; and cause the second representation to be displayed on an electronic display device, the second representation including the rate or the frequency of the detected heartbeat or the respiration to support an automated diagnosis suggestion or finding relating to the detected heartbeat or the respiration, the diagnosis suggestion or finding relating to the detected heartbeat including a heart defect or a heart murmur, and the diagnosis suggestion or finding relating to the detected respiration including a breathing defect.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the memory device further causes the system to share, via a data connection, the stored representation as the indication of the rate or the frequency with a hospital information system.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the memory device further causes the system to: retrieve a patient list from the hospital information system; select a patient from the patient list; obtain raw auscultation data from the patient; determine patient specific parameters based on the raw auscultation data; and transfer to the hospital information system one or more of patient data, the raw auscultation data, the patient specific parameters, and a diagnosis suggestion.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the memory device further causes the system to: obtain raw auscultation data of the quasi-periodic signal; send the raw auscultation data of the quasi-periodic signal to a hospital information system; analyze the raw data at the hospital information system; and store results of the analysis at the hospital information system for later review by a medical professional.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the filtering is wavelet filtering in which the signal is decomposed into detail and approximation coefficients.
14. The system of claim 9, further comprising splitting, using the controller, the pre-processed signal into progressively smaller time domains.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the memory device further causes the system to utilize statistical measure for producing the first maximum.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the memory device further causes the system to convert representative positions of all maxima including the first maximum and the second maximum to indicate the rate or the frequency of the quasi-periodic signal.
</claims>
</document>
