<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T5/00,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN ZHE
MECH, RADOMIR
SHEN, XIAOHUI
YU, NING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63521209
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital image defect identification and correction
</title>

<abstract>
Digital image defect identification and correction techniques are described. In one example, a digital medium environment is configured to identify and correct a digital image defect through identification of a defect in a digital image using machine learning. The identification includes generating a plurality of defect type scores using a plurality of defect type identification models, as part of machine learning, for a plurality of different defect types and determining the digital image includes the defect based on the generated plurality of defect type scores. A correction is generated for the identified defect and the digital image is output as included the generated correction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment to identify and correct a digital image defect, a method implemented by at least one computing device, the method comprising: identifying, by the at least one computing device, a defect in a digital image using machine learning, the identifying including: generating a plurality of defect type scores for a plurality of different defect types using a plurality of defect type identification models, the plurality of defect type identification models implemented as part of machine learning using a plurality of neural networks, respectively, having defect type regression layers separated into individual branches, respectively, for the plurality of different defect types at least one defect type score of the plurality of defect type scores generated by aggregating, based on a weighting: a global defect score that captures global resolution details of the digital image for a respective said defect type; with a local defect score generated from patches taken from the digital image that captures fine-grain resolution details for the respective said defect type; determining that the digital image includes the defect based on the generated plurality of defect type scores; generating, by the at least one computing device, a correction for the identified defect; and outputting, by the at least one computing device, the digital image as including the generated correction.
2. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising training, by at least one computing device, the plurality of defect type identification models using machine learning based on a plurality of training digital images, each said training image having an identified defect type and weight indicating an amount of severity for the identified defect type.
3. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the plurality of different defect types include exposure, white balance, saturation, noise, haze, blur, or composition.
4. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the global defect score is generated from a downsized version of the digital image.
5. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the determining that the digital image includes the defect includes applying a weighting to the global defect score or the local defect score of the plurality of defect type scores.
6. The method as described in claim 1, wherein at least one defect type score of the plurality of defect type scores defines a localization within the digital image.
7. The method as described in claim 6, wherein the generating of the correction is based at least in part of the localization.
8. In a digital medium environment to identify a digital image defect in a digital image automatically and without user intervention, a system comprising: means for training a plurality of defect type identification models to identify a plurality of defect types, respectively, using machine learning based on a plurality of training digital images; and means for identifying a defect type of the plurality of defect types in a digital image using machine learning, the identifying means including: means for generating a plurality of defect type scores for a plurality of different defect types using the plurality of defect type identification models as part of machine learning using a plurality of neural networks having defect type regression layers separated into individual branches, respectively, for the plurality of defect types, at least one defect type score of the plurality of defect type scores by aggregating, based on a weighting, a global defect score that captures global resolution details of the digital image for a respective said defect type with a local defect score generated from patches taken from the digital image that capture fine-grain resolution details for the respective said defect type; and means for determining the digital image includes the defect based on the generated plurality of defect type scores.
9. The system as described in claim 8, further comprising means for training the plurality of defect type identification models to identify a plurality of defect types, respectively, using machine learning based on a plurality of training digital images.
10. The system as described in claim 8, further comprising means for generating a correction to the identified defect type.
11. The system as described in claim 9, wherein each said training image includes a weight indicating an amount of severity for the identified defect type.
12. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the plurality of different defect types includes exposure, white balance, saturation, noise, haze, blur, or composition.
13. A computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by a computing device, causes the computing device to perform operations comprising: identifying a defect in a digital image using machine learning, the identifying including: generating a plurality of defect type scores for a plurality of different defect types using a plurality of defect type identification models, the plurality of defect type identification models implemented as part of machine learning using a plurality of neural networks, respectively, having defect type regression layers separated into individual branches, respectively, for the plurality of different defect types, at least one defect type score of the plurality of defect type scores generated by aggregating, based on a weighting: a global defect score that captures global resolution details of the digital image for a respective said defect type; with a local defect score generated from patches taken from the digital image that captures fine-grain resolution details for the respective said defect type; determining that the digital image includes the defect based on the generated plurality of defect type scores; generating a correction for the identified defect; and outputting the digital image as including the generated correction.
14. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 13, further comprising training the plurality of defect type identification models using machine learning based on a plurality of training digital images, each said training image having an identified defect type and weight indicating an amount of severity for the identified defect type.
15. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 13, wherein the plurality of different defect types includes exposure, white balance, saturation, noise, haze, blur, or composition.
16. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 13, wherein the global defect score is generated from a downsized version of the digital image.
17. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 13, wherein the operation of determining that the digital image includes the defect includes applying a weighting to a global defect score or a local defect score of the plurality of defect type scores.
18. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 13, wherein at least one defect type score of the plurality of defect type scores defines a localization within the digital image.
19. The computer-readable storage medium as described in claim 18, wherein the operation of generating the correction is based at least in part of the localization.
</claims>
</document>
