<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAILEY, GAVIN
KARTSIOUKAS, NICHOLAS GEORGE
SPEARS, WESLEY THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71519863
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Privilege revocation for client devices
</title>

<abstract>
A privilege management system receives a manifest specifying a first set of privileges implemented on a client device. Based at least in part on a characteristic of the client device, the privilege management system identifies a second set of privileges that are to be implemented on the client device. The privilege management system processes the first set of privileges and the second set of privileges to identify a set of differences and transmits this set of differences to the client device. In response to receiving this set of differences, the client device implements the second set of privileges.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining, based at least in part on a desired privilege state for a client device, a desired privilege manifest that reflects the desired privilege state, the desired privilege manifest specifying a notification justifying implementation of the desired privilege state; receiving, from the client device, a current privilege manifest, the current privilege manifest specifying a current privilege state of the client device; processing the current privilege manifest and the desired privilege manifest to identify a set of differences; providing the notification to the client device to cause the client device to present the notification in an interface; and causing, based at least in part on the set of differences and the notification, the client device to update the current privilege state to the desired privilege state.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, from the client device, a request to implement a set of privileges to enable performance of an action, the set of privileges removed from the client device as a result of the client device updating the current privilege state to the desired privilege state; determining, based at least in part on information specified in the request, that the set of privileges can be granted for performance of the action; causing the client device to implement the set of privileges; and causing revocation of the set of privileges in response to performance of the action, the set of privileges.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the client device to update the current privilege state to the desired privilege state includes revoking a set of privileges from the client device.
4. A system, comprising at least one computing device with memory storing computer-executable instructions that, upon execution, cause the system to implement one or more services, wherein the one or more services: obtain a first set of privileges implemented on a client device; obtain a desired privilege manifest, the desired privilege manifest specifying: a second set of privileges; and a notification justifying implementation of the second set of privileges; process the first set of privileges and the second set of privileges to identify a set of differences; provide the notification to the client device to cause the client device to present the justification; and cause, based at least in part on the set of differences, the client device to implement the second set of privileges.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more services further: utilize a characteristic of the client device to identify the desired privilege manifest; and utilize the desired privilege manifest to process the first set of privileges and the second set of privileges to identify the set of differences.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the one or more services further transmit, in response to receiving the desired privilege manifest, a request to the client device to receive the first set of privileges.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more services further: receive, from the client device, a request to implement a privilege to enable performance of an operation; cause the client device to implement the privilege; receive an indication that the operation has been performed; and cause the client device to revoke the privilege.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more services further: receive, from the client device, a request to implement a privilege to enable performance of an operation; identify a time period during which the privilege is to be active on the client device; cause the client device to implement the privilege; and after the time period has elapsed, cause the client device to revoke the privilege.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein causing the client device to implement the second set of privileges further causes the client device to revoke at least one privilege of the first set of privileges.
10. The system of claim 4, wherein: the characteristic of the client device is a unique identifier assigned to the client device, the unique identifier provided with the first set of privileges; and the one or more services further use the unique identifier as input to a query of a datastore to identify an entry specifying the second set of privileges.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: generate, based at least in part on a current privilege state of the computer system, a current privilege manifest associated with the current privilege state; cause, based at least in part on a characteristic of the computer system and the current privilege manifest, a different computer system to generate a set of differences between the current privilege manifest and a desired privilege manifest associated with a desired privilege state to be implemented on the computer system, the desired privilege manifest providing a notification justifying implementation of the desired privilege state; provide the notification to the computer system; and process the set of differences to update the computer system to the desired privilege state.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions further cause the computer system to: receive a request to perform an operation; identify additional privileges that, as a result of being implemented, enable performance of the operation; implement the additional privileges; and revoke the additional privileges in response to performance of the operation.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions further cause the computer system to: receive a request to perform an operation; implement a set of additional privileges to enable performance of the operation, the set of additional privileges subject to an expiration time period; and revoke the set of additional privileges in response to the expiration time period having elapsed.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions that cause the computer system to generate the current privilege manifest further include instructions that cause the computer system to receive an indication from the different computer system that the desired privilege manifest has been obtained by the different computer system.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions further cause the computer system to: receive a request to perform an operation; determine that the request is to be denied as a result of the computer system being updated to the desired privilege state; and provide, in response to the request, a notification via an interface indicating a justification for revocation of privileges that, if implemented, enable performance of the operation.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions further cause the computer system to transmit the current privilege manifest to the different computer system to cause the different computer system to generate the set of differences.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the characteristic of the computer system is a unique identifier associated with the computer system, the unique identifier usable by the different computer system to identify the desired privilege manifest.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein the executable instructions that cause the computer system to process the set of differences further cause the computer system to: receive, from the different computer system, an approved privilege manifest specifying the set of differences; revoke any privileges of the computer system that are omitted from the approved privilege manifest; and implement a set of privileges specified in the approved privilege manifest.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising placing the desired privilege state in a queue.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether a threshold on a number of requests within a period of time has been exceeded; and upon a determination that the threshold has been exceeded, rejecting the implementation of the desired privilege state.
</claims>
</document>
