<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/29,G06K9/00,G06Q20/00,G06Q20/06,G06Q20/32,G06Q30/02,G06T19/00,G06T19/20,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED NEW TECHNOLOGIES CO., LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, GUANHUA
CHENG, JIAHUI
DUAN, QINGLONG
JI, JING
YUAN, LU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59453304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Allocating virtual objects based on augmented reality
</title>

<abstract>
A method of allocating virtual objects based on augmented reality (AR) includes displaying, by an AR client terminal of a receiving user, a live map associated with a location of the receiving user. The live map includes a target location to which a virtual object was bound by a distributing user. The AR client terminal of the receiving user scans an image of an environment of the target location. In response to determining that the scanned image includes a preset bound target, the AR client terminal of the receiving user receives information of the virtual object from a server terminal. The preset bound target is associated with the virtual object and the target location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: displaying, by an augmented reality (AR) client terminal of a receiving user, a live map associated with a location of the receiving user, wherein the live map includes a target of a target location to which a virtual object was bound by a distributing user, wherein binding the virtual object to the target includes: scanning, by an AR client terminal of the distributing user, a first image of an environment of the target location, determining the target from the first image, and binding the virtual object to the target, scanning, by the AR client terminal of the receiving user, a second image of the environment of the target location; in response to determining that the scanned second image includes the target, receiving information of the virtual object from a server; receiving, by the AR client terminal, a gesture input on the displayed live map, the gesture input selecting a cue mark representing the target location, the gesture input being received by the AR client terminal when the AR client terminal at a particular physical location; determining, by the AR client terminal, a distance between the target location and the particular physical location of the AR client terminal; and displaying, by the AR client terminal, a virtual object searching page corresponding to the target location based upon a relationship between the distance and a threshold distance, wherein the virtual object searching page comprises reserved text provided by the distributing user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the binding the virtual object to the target further includes: receiving distribution information of the virtual object based on input of the distributing user; and uploading, to the server, the distribution information of the virtual object, information of the target, and information of the target location.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the virtual object is an electronic red envelope.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying, in the virtual object searching page, an option for displaying an image scanning clue; and in response to the receiving user's selection of the option, displaying a clue image in the virtual object searching page, wherein the clue image includes information of the first image scanned by the distributing user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, to the server, a live map acquisition request including the location of the receiving user; and receiving information of the live map from the server.
6. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: displaying, by an augmented reality (AR) client terminal of a receiving user, a live map associated with a location of the receiving user, wherein the live map includes a target of a target location to which a virtual object was bound by a distributing user, wherein binding the virtual object to the target includes: scanning, by an AR client terminal of the distributing user, a first image of an environment of the target location, determining the target from the first image, and binding the virtual object to the target, scanning, by the AR client terminal of the receiving user, a second image of the environment of the target location; in response to determining that the scanned second image includes the target, receiving information of the virtual object from a server; receiving, by the AR client terminal, a gesture input on the displayed live map, the gesture input selecting a cue mark representing the target location, the gesture input being received by the AR client terminal when the AR client terminal at a particular physical location; determining, by the AR client terminal, a distance between the target location and the particular physical location of the AR client terminal; and displaying, by the AR client terminal, a virtual object searching page corresponding to the target location based upon a relationship between the distance and a threshold distance, wherein the virtual object searching page comprises reserved text provided by the distributing user.
7. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 6, wherein binding the virtual object to the target further comprises operations of: receiving distribution information of the virtual object based on input of the distributing user; and uploading, to the server, the distribution information of the virtual object, information of the target, and information of the target location.
8. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 6, wherein the virtual object is an electronic red envelope.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: displaying, in the virtual object searching page, an option for displaying an image scanning clue; and in response to the receiving user's selection of the option, displaying a clue image in the virtual object searching page, wherein the clue image includes information of the first image scanned by the distributing user.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: sending, to the server, a live map acquisition request including the location of the receiving user; and receiving information of the live map from the server.
11. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: displaying, by an augmented reality (AR) client terminal of a receiving user, a live map associated with a location of the receiving user, wherein the live map includes a target of a target location to which a virtual object was bound by a distributing user, wherein binding the virtual object to the target includes: scanning, by an AR client terminal of the distributing user, a first image of an environment of the target location, determining the target from the first image, and binding the virtual object to the target, scanning, by the AR client terminal of the receiving user, a second image of the environment of the target location; in response to determining that the scanned second image includes the target, receiving information of the virtual object from a server; receiving, by the AR client terminal, a gesture input on the displayed live map, the gesture input selecting a cue mark representing the target location, the gesture input being received by the AR client terminal when the AR client terminal at a particular physical location; determining, by the AR client terminal, a distance between the target location and the particular physical location of the AR client terminal; and displaying, by the AR client terminal, a virtual object searching page corresponding to the target location based upon a relationship between the distance and a threshold distance, wherein the virtual object searching page comprises reserved text provided by the distributing user.
12. The computer-implemented system of claim 11, wherein binding the virtual object to the target includes operations comprising: receiving distribution information of the virtual object based on input of the distributing user; and uploading, to the server, the distribution information of the virtual object, information of the target, and information of the target location.
13. The computer-implemented system of claim 11, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: displaying, in the virtual object searching page, an option for displaying an image scanning clue; and in response to the receiving user's selection of the option, displaying a clue image in the virtual object searching page, wherein the clue image includes information of the first image scanned by the distributing user.
14. The computer-implemented system of claim 11, wherein the one or more operations further comprise: sending, to the server, a live map acquisition request including the location of the receiving user; and receiving information of the live map from the server.
15. The computer-implemented system of claim 11, wherein the virtual object is an electronic red envelope.
</claims>
</document>
