<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SRINIVASAN, VENGADANATHAN
PANDEY, RAJEEV KUMAR
KRISHNAN, PRASANTH KRISHNAN KRISHNASAMY NAVANEETHA
TIBREWAL, SAHARSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59828595
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Performance-based content delivery
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for performance-based content delivery are disclosed. A performance management service can define client performance categories based on performance data regarding content requesting, delivery and rendering, and thereby enable content providers to generate or update content based on characteristics of different performance categories in order to improve user experience. The performance management service may also predict performance categories for clients with respect to their currently submitted content requests based on applicable client classification criteria. The performance management service can provide the category prediction to content providers so that a version of the requested content appropriate for the predicted category is transmitted to the client.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: under control of a hardware computing device configured with specific computer executable instructions, defining a first performance category based, at least in part, on an analysis of performance data associated with requests for network resources received by a provider of network resources to form a first performance category definition; determining a performance characteristic corresponding to the first performance category, wherein the performance characteristic identifies a characteristic of a subset of client computing devices in a plurality of client computing devices that belong to the first performance category; generating a prediction that a first client computing device in the plurality of client computing devices that transmitted a request for a target network resource belongs to the first performance category, wherein the prediction is generated without an actual performance category of the first client computing device being known; and causing transmission of at least one version of the target network resource to the first client computing device, the at least one version of the target network resource selected by the hardware computing device based, at least in part, on the prediction.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first performance category definition comprises an identification of a percentile cutoff corresponding to total processing times.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the performance characteristic comprises a latency measurement range corresponding to the percentile cutoff.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the analysis of the performance data comprises a histogram of latencies associated with each network resource request.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first performance category is one of a low, medium, or high latency category.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises at least one of in-lining Cascading Style Sheets (CSS), an image of a first resolution that is lower than a second resolution available in another version of the target network resource, or first script code that is a simplified version of second script code available in the another version of the target network resource.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises at least one of a reference to external Cascading Style Sheets (CSS) from a content delivery network (CDN), an image that is an enhanced version of another version of the image that is available in another version of the target network resource, or first script code that is a complicated version of second script code available in the another version of the target network resource.
8. A system comprising: a data store configured to store computer-executable instructions; and a hardware processor in communication with the data store, the hardware processor configured to execute the computer-executable instructions to at least: define a first performance category based, at least in part, on an analysis of performance data associated with requests for network resources received by a content provider to form a first performance category definition; determine a performance characteristic corresponding to the first performance category, wherein the performance characteristic identifies a characteristic of a subset of client computing devices in a plurality of client computing devices that belong to the first performance category; generate a prediction that a first client computing device in the plurality of client computing devices that transmitted a request for a target network resource belongs to the first performance category, wherein the prediction is generated without an actual performance category of the first client computing device being known; and cause transmission of at least one version of the target network resource to the first client computing device, the at least one version of the target network resource selected by the hardware processor based, at least in part, on the prediction.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the performance data comprises at least one of process information, memory information, network data, resource data, or client computing component information.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the first performance category definition comprises an identification of a percentile cutoff corresponding to total processing times.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the performance characteristic comprises a latency measurement range corresponding to the percentile cutoff.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the analysis of the performance data comprises a histogram of latencies associated with each network resource request.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the first performance category is one of a low, medium, or high latency category.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises at least one of an image of a first resolution that is lower than a second resolution available in another version of the target network resource, or first script code that is a simplified version of second script code available in the another version of the target network resource.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer executable instructions that when executed by a processor perform operations comprising: defining a first performance category based, at least in part, on an analysis of performance data associated with requests for network resources received by a content provider to form a first performance category definition; determining a performance characteristic corresponding to the target performance category, wherein the performance characteristic identifies a characteristic of a subset of client computing devices in a plurality of client computing devices that belong to the first performance category; generating a prediction that a first client computing device in the plurality of client computing devices belongs to the first performance category, wherein the prediction is generated without an actual performance category of the first client computing device being known; and causing transmission of at least one version of a target network resource to the first client computing device, the at least one version of the target network resource selected by the processor based, at least in part, on the prediction.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first performance category definition comprises an identification of a percentile cutoff corresponding to total processing times.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the performance characteristic comprises a latency measurement range corresponding to the percentile cutoff.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first performance category is one of a low, medium, or high latency category.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises at least one of in-lining Cascading Style Sheet (CSS), an image of a first resolution that is lower than a second resolution available in another version of the target network resource, or first script code that is a simplified version of second script code available in the another version of the target network resource.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises at least one of a reference to external Cascading Style Sheet (CSS), an image that is an enhanced version of another version of the image that is available in another version of the target network resource, or first script code that is a complicated version of second script code available in the another version of the target network resource.
21. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one version of the target network resource comprises in-lining Cascading Style Sheets (CSS).
</claims>
</document>
