<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/032,G01R33/26,G01V3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TSINGHUA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GENG, HUA
ZHENG, XIAO-PING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62646470
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cesium optical pump detector for buried and abandoned chemical weapons
</title>

<abstract>
A cesium optical pump detector for buried and abandoned chemical weapons of Japan is provided, comprising a pumping light generation module, a first optical module, a magnetic resonance module, a photoelectric detection module, and a signal processing module. The signal processing module includes an amplifying and filtering unit, a self-oscillation unit, a measuring unit, and a calculating unit connected in sequence. The amplifying and filtering unit comprises a first band-pass filter configured to coarsely measure a frequency of the electrical signal and a second band-pass filter configured to finely measure the frequency of the electrical signal. The self-oscillation unit comprises a first phase shifter connected to the first band-pass filter and a second phase shifter connected to the second band-pass filter. In the present disclosure, the intensity of a magnetic field detected can be finely measured, so that the ACWs can be found efficiently and accurately.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cesium optical pump detector for buried unexploded ordnance, comprising: a pumping light generation module configured to generate a near-infrared light; a first optical module configured to convert the near-infrared light into a circularly polarized light; a magnetic resonance module comprising: a radiofrequency coil configured to generate a radiofrequency electromagnetic field; and a cesium absorption chamber comprising an elemental cesium, wherein based upon an interaction of the circularly polarized light, the radiofrequency electromagnetic field, and a magnetic field detected, the elemental cesium is caused to generate an opto-magnetic resonance to output a modulated near-infrared signal; a photoelectric detection module configured to receive the modulated near-infrared signal and convert the modulated near-infrared signal into an electrical signal; and a signal processing module electrically connected to the photoelectric detection module, comprising: an amplifying and filtering unit, a self-oscillation unit, a magnetic resonance frequency measuring unit, and a calculating unit which are sequentially and electrically connected, wherein the amplifying and filtering unit comprising: a first band-pass filter configured to coarsely measure a frequency of the electrical signal; and a second band-pass filter configured to finely measure the frequency of the electrical signal; the self-oscillation unit is further electrically connected to the radiofrequency coil to excite the radiofrequency coil, comprising: a first phase shifter electrically connected to the first band-pass filter; and a second phase shifter electrically connected to the second band-pass filter; and the second band-pass filter comprises a plurality of first frequency band selection elements, the second phase shifter comprises a plurality of second frequency band selection elements respectively corresponding to the plurality of first frequency band selection elements, and each of the plurality of first frequency band selection elements and each of the plurality of second frequency band selection elements corresponding to each other are configured to define one frequency band for finely measuring the frequency of the electrical signal.
2. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, wherein the amplifying and filtering unit comprises: a pre-amplifier; and a post-amplifier electrically connected to the pre-amplifier, the post-amplifier is further electrically connected to the first band-pass filter and the second band-pass filter.
3. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, further comprising: a temperature control module electrically connected to the magnetic resonance module, configured to control a temperature in the cesium absorption chamber.
4. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 3, wherein the temperature control module comprise a fuzzy PID controller.
5. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, further comprising: a second optical module disposed between the cesium absorption chamber and the photoelectric detection module, configured to focus the modulated near-infrared signal on the photoelectric detection module.
6. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, further comprising: an attitude compensation module fixedly disposed relative to the magnetic resonance module, configured to monitor an angle between the circularly polarized light output from the first optical module and a flux line of the magnetic field detected.
7. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, wherein the photoelectric detection module comprises: a photodiode configured to receive the modulated near-infrared signal; and a photoelectric conversion circuit electrically connected to the photodiode, configured to convert the modulated near-infrared signal into the electrical signal.
8. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, further comprising: a terminal control module respectively and electrically connected to the pumping light generation module, the magnetic resonance module, the photoelectric detection module, and the signal processing module.
9. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, wherein an inner wall of the cesium absorption chamber is coated with paraffin.
10. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 1, wherein the first optical module comprises: a first lens configured to expand a beam of the near-infrared light to a parallel light; a first optical filter configured to filter out a stray light from the parallel light; a linear polarizer configured to convert the parallel light into a linearly polarized light; and a quarter-wave plate configured to convert the linearly polarized light into the circularly polarized light and shoot the circularly polarized light into the cesium absorption chamber.
11. A cesium optical pump detector for buried unexploded ordnance, comprising: a pumping light generation module configured to generate a near-infrared light; a first optical module configured to convert the near-infrared light into a circularly polarized light; a magnetic resonance module comprising: a radiofrequency coil configured to generate a radiofrequency electromagnetic field; and a cesium absorption chamber comprising an elemental cesium, wherein based upon an interaction of the circularly polarized light, the radiofrequency electromagnetic field, and a magnetic field detected, the elemental cesium is caused to generate an opto-magnetic resonance to output a modulated near-infrared signal; a photoelectric detection module configured to receive the modulated near-infrared signal and convert the modulated near-infrared signal into an electrical signal; and a signal processing module electrically connected to the photoelectric detection module, comprising: an amplifying and filtering unit, a self-oscillation unit, a magnetic resonance frequency measuring unit, and a calculating unit which are sequentially and electrically connected, wherein the amplifying and filtering unit comprising: a first band-pass filter configured to coarsely measure a frequency of the electrical signal; and a second band-pass filter configured to finely measure the frequency of the electrical signal; the self-oscillation unit is further electrically connected to the radiofrequency coil to excite the radiofrequency coil, comprising: a first phase shifter electrically connected to the first band-pass filter; and a second phase shifter electrically connected to the second band-pass filter; the second band-pass filter comprises a plurality of first frequency band selection elements, the second phase shifter comprises a plurality of second frequency band selection elements respectively corresponding to the plurality of first frequency band selection elements, each of the plurality of first frequency band selection elements and each of the plurality of second frequency band selection elements corresponding to each other are configured to define one frequency band for finely measuring the frequency of the electrical signal; and the calculating unit is configured to calculated an intensity of the magnetic field detected based upon the frequency of the electrical signal; and a terminal control module electrically connected to the signal processing module, configured to acquire the frequency of the electrical signal coarsely acquired and select frequency bands for working of the second band-pass filter and the second phase shifter based upon the frequency of the electrical signal coarsely acquired when to finely measure the frequency of the electrical signal.
12. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, wherein the amplifying and filtering unit comprises: a pre-amplifier; and a post-amplifier electrically connected to the pre-amplifier, the post-amplifier is further electrically connected to the first band-pass filter and the second band-pass filter.
13. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, further comprising: a temperature control module electrically connected to the magnetic resonance module, configured to control a temperature in the cesium absorption chamber.
14. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 13, wherein the temperature control module comprise a fuzzy PID controller.
15. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, further comprising: a second optical module disposed between the cesium absorption chamber and the photoelectric detection module, configured to focus the modulated near-infrared signal on the photoelectric detection module.
16. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, further comprising: an attitude compensation module fixedly disposed relative to the magnetic resonance module, configured to monitor an angle between the circularly polarized light output from the first optical module and a flux line of the magnetic field detected.
17. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, wherein the photoelectric detection module comprises: a photodiode configured to receive the modulated near-infrared signal; and a photoelectric conversion circuit electrically connected to the photodiode, configured to convert the modulated near-infrared signal into the electrical signal.
18. The cesium optical pump detector of claim 11, wherein the first optical module comprises: a first lens configured to expand a beam of the near-infrared light to a parallel light; a first optical filter configured to filter out a stray light from the parallel light; a linear polarizer configured to convert the parallel light into a linearly polarized light; and a quarter-wave plate configured to convert the linearly polarized light into the circularly polarized light and shoot the circularly polarized light into the cesium absorption chamber.
</claims>
</document>
