<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06K9/72
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HONG KONG APPLIED SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TANG, WAI KAI ARVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66534530
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Flexible integrating recognition and semantic processing
</title>

<abstract>
A method for character recognition and semantic for natural language processing comprising extracting a sequence of feature vectors from a sequence of input character images by a convolutional neural network (CNN) feature extractor. The sequence of feature vectors comprises a plurality of feature vectors, each feature vector representing an approximate-match of its corresponding input character in the sequence of input character images. The method further comprises applying a sequential classifier sequentially as a sliding window of a size of a plurality consecutive feature vectors upon the sequence of feature vectors from a first feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors to the last feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors; and recognizing an output character for a targeted feature vector among the applied-upon consecutive feature vectors within the sliding window as it is sliding across the sequence of feature vectors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for character recognition and semantic for natural language processing comprising: receiving an input character string comprising a plurality of input characters; determining a sequence of input character images approximate-matching the input characters; extracting a sequence of feature vectors from the sequence of input character images by a convolutional neural network (CNN) based feature extractor, wherein the sequence of feature vectors comprising a plurality of feature vectors, each feature vector representing an approximate-match of its corresponding input character in the sequence of input character images; applying successively a sequential classifier sequentially as a sliding window of a size of a plurality of consecutive feature vectors upon each of the feature vector as a targeted feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors, wherein the size of the sliding window is at least two consecutive feature vectors; and recognizing by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window, the recognition comprising: inferencing from the feature vector adjacent to the targeted feature vector; and locating the output character in a character feature hyperspace using the applied-upon consecutive feature vectors; and moving the sliding window through the sequence of feature vectors after recognizing the output character such that sequential classifier is applied to each of the feature vectors as a targeted feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors to recognize an output character for each targeted feature vector.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the size of the plurality consecutive feature vectors of the sliding window is at least three feature vectors.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the targeted feature vector is a middle feature vector of each applied-upon consecutive feature vectors within the sliding window; and wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: bi-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately preceding the targeted feature vector and consecutive feature vectors immediately following the targeted feature vector.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the sliding window slides forward on the sequence of feature vectors from a beginning feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors to an end feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sliding window slides backward on the sequence of feature vectors from an end feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors to a beginning feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequential classifier is trained using a context, function, or application domain specific training dataset of lexicons.
7. The method of claim 1, where the CNN-based feature extractor is trained using a training dataset containing a plurality of selected language characters and a plurality of images of different handwriting styles or forms of each character.
8. An apparatus for character recognition and semantic for natural language processing comprising: a CNN-based feature extractor configured for: receiving an input character string comprising a plurality of input characters; determining a sequence of input character images approximate-matching the input characters; and extracting a sequence of feature vectors from the sequence of input character images, wherein the sequence of feature vectors comprising a plurality of feature vectors, each feature vector representing an approximate-match of its corresponding input character in the sequence of input character images; and a sequential classifier configured for: applying successively a sliding window of a size of a plurality of consecutive feature vectors upon each of the feature vector as a targeted feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors, wherein the size of the sliding window is at least two consecutive feature vectors; recognizing an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window, the recognition comprising: inferencing from the feature vector adjacent to the targeted feature vector; locating the output character in a character feature hyperspace using the applied-upon consecutive feature vectors; moving the sliding window through the sequence of feature vectors after recognizing the output character such that sequential classifier is applied to each of the feature vectors as a targeted feature vector in the sequence of feature vectors to recognize an output character for each targeted feature vector.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the size of the plurality consecutive feature vectors of the sliding window is at least three feature vectors.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the targeted feature vector is a middle feature vector of each applied-upon consecutive feature vectors within the sliding window; and wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: bi-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately preceding the targeted feature vector and consecutive feature vectors immediately following the targeted feature vector.
11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the sliding window slides forward on the sequence of feature vectors from a beginning feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors to an end feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors.
12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the sliding window slides backward on the sequence of feature vectors from an end feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors to a beginning feature vector of the sequence of feature vectors.
13. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the sequential classifier is trained using a context, function, or application domain specific training dataset of lexicons.
14. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the CNN-based feature extractor is trained using a training dataset containing a plurality of selected language characters and a plurality of images of different handwriting styles or forms of each character.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: forward-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately following the targeted feature vector.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: backward-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately preceding the targeted feature vector.
17. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: forward-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately following the targeted feature vector.
18. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the recognition by the sequential classifier an output character for the targeted feature vector within the sliding window further comprising: backward-inferencing from the consecutive feature vectors immediately preceding the targeted feature vector.
</claims>
</document>
