<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/07,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCELHINNEY, CONOR PATRICK
BOISSIER, GUILLAUME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70736361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Active monitoring of packet loss in networks using multiple statistical models
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method includes determining a hierarchical graph of a network of entities. The method further includes determining event data from a plurality of events. The method also includes applying a plurality of statistical models on the event data corresponding to each of the plurality of the events and the hierarchical graph. Each of the statistical models generates a model output data for each of the plurality of events. The method further includes generating a model output data based on the model output data corresponding to each of the plurality of statistical models by using a first cost function. The method also includes generating a set of data based on the model output data by using a second cost function. The method further includes determining one or more entities of the network experiencing packet loss based on the set of data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a source of a network entity failure on a network, comprising: by a server computer: constructing a plurality of hierarchical aggregation layers, wherein each aggregation layer includes one or more of a plurality of network entities; classifying each network entity of the plurality of network entities into a hierarchical aggregation layer based on a number of downstream data paths from each network entity, wherein a higher layer of an aggregation graph has a higher number of downstream data paths than a lower layer of the aggregation graph; collecting a plurality of event data sets, wherein each of the plurality of event data sets comprises information obtained from a transmission of data between two or more network entities of the plurality of network entities; applying the plurality of event data sets to a plurality of statistical models, wherein each of the statistical models generates model output data for each of the plurality of event data sets; applying a first cost function to each of the model output data, the first cost function identifying one or more of the network entities of the plurality of network entities as a potential source of a network error; applying a second cost function to at least two of the identified network entities made by the first cost function; and determining that one or more network entities of the plurality of network entities is experiencing a network error based on the second cost function.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the plurality of event data sets comprises monitoring an exchange of network packets between a source entity and a destination entity of the plurality of network entities, and storing a record of the exchange in a memory of the server computer.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing an action on the one or more network entities identified as experiencing a network entity failure including any one of re-routing network traffic around an identified network entity, re-starting an identified network entity, or generating a system message regarding the status of an identified network entity.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the model output data comprises using the first cost function to modify the model output data of at least one statistical model based on a first predetermined criterion including at least one of packet loss or traceroute loss.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the model output data comprises using the first cost function to modify the model output data of at least one statistical model based on a first predetermined criterion including a size of the differences between an entity event-loss between two statistical models relative to a size of the differences between a number of sub-entities associated with the two statistical models.
6. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that upon execution by one or more processors cause a computer system to: collect a network error event data set based on a communication between two or more network entities; apply the collected network error data set to a plurality of statistical models, wherein each of the statistical models generates different model output data for the network error event data set, wherein a second cost function is generated to select the model output data in conjunction with a first cost function from one or more of the plurality of statistical models; and determine if one or more network entities in the network is experiencing a network error based on the selected model output data.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, further comprising: grouping the two or more network entities into a plurality of hierarchical layers based on a number of downstream connections for each network entity.
8. The non-transitory medium of claim 7, wherein the event data for a given statistical model at a given hierarchical layer comprises an estimation of a total number of packets lost by a network entity, a number of packets lost during an event, a ratio of the estimation of the total number of packets lost by the entity to the number of packets lost during the event, or a number of sub-entities in higher hierarchical layers above the given hierarchical layer.
9. The non-transitory medium of claim 6, wherein first cost functions influence the output data from each of the plurality of statistical models to determine which of the one or more network entities is experiencing the network error, and a second cost function selects one of the first cost functions.
10. The non-transitory medium of claim 6, further comprising performing an action on the one or more network entities determined to be experiencing a network error based on the model output data including at least one of re-routing network traffic around an identified entity, re-starting an identified entity, or generating a system message regarding the status of an identified entity.
11. The non-transitory medium of claim 6, wherein the model output data includes a location of a network entity in the plurality of hierarchical layers, a number of network devices corresponding to the network entity, a packet loss data metric corresponding to the network entity, or traceroute data corresponding to the network entity.
12. The non-transitory medium of claim 6, wherein determining which network entity is experiencing the network error comprises calculating a maximized packet loss metric by a first cost function.
13. The non-transitory medium of claim 12, wherein the cost function is comprised of a hierarchical layer, a set of network entities, a number of entities in the set of network entities, a number of sub-entities, or an entity event loss.
14. The non-transitory medium of claim 6, wherein a first cost function is applied to the model output data based on a comparison between packet loss metrics between network entities.
15. A system, comprising: a plurality of network entities arranged in a network, wherein each of the plurality of network entities includes one or more network devices; and a server coupled to the network, the server configured to: classify the plurality of network entities according to a number of hierarchical aggregation layers, wherein each hierarchical aggregation layer is populated by at least one entity of the plurality of network entities; collect an event data set from a plurality of network entity transactions; apply the collected event data set to a plurality of statistical models, wherein each of the statistical models generates model output data for the collected data set; apply a first cost function to two or more of the plurality of model output data to determine at least one network entity experiencing a network error; apply a second cost function to the plurality of outcomes from the first cost function being applied to the plurality of statistical models; and determine one or more network entities of the network experiencing packet loss based on the second cost function.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the server is configured to perform an action on the one or more network entities identified as experiencing packet loss including any one of re-routing network traffic around an identified entity, re-starting an identified entity, or generating a system message regarding the status of an identified entity.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the event data for a given statistical model at a given aggregation layer comprises an estimation of a total number of packets lost by a network entity, a number of packets lost during an event, a ratio of the estimation of the total number of packets lost by the entity to the number of packets lost during the event, or a number of sub-entities in higher hierarchical layers above the given hierarchical layer.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the model output data includes at least one of a location of a network entity in a hierarchical layer, a number of network devices corresponding to the network entity, or a packet loss data metric for the network entity.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the network is a Clos network.
</claims>
</document>
