<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B1/08,G08B21/04,G08B21/18,G08B25/01,G08B5/36,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COHO INDUSTRIES
PACIFIC UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEAVITT, MARK K.
GREEN, KAYLIE ANN
DAPOLONIA, ELI MALACHY DUNN
SORIA, JUAN ANDRES
BERGMAN, AARON LESLIE
KAPLAN, JOSHUA BENJAMIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72042302
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for reducing adverse health events in first responders
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided for an alert system for reducing a risk of an adverse health event in a firefighter or first responder. In one example, the alert system may comprise a wearable sensor and an alerting device, where the alerting device may be operable to receive physiological and/or environmental data from the wearable sensor and where the alerting device may be further operable to issue an alert based on the received physiological and/or environmental data. In some examples, the alert may be a function of one or more personalized thresholds for evaluating a stress level of the firefighter or first responder. In some examples, the alert may be issued via multiple communication channels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An alert system for reducing a risk of an adverse health event for a first responder, comprising: a wearable sensor and an alerting device, the alerting device capable to receive real-time data from the wearable sensor, the alerting device communicably coupled to, and in direct contact with outsides of, a remote speaker/microphone connector and an existing portable radio worn by the first responder; wherein the alerting device issues a visual alert signal based on the real-time data received from the wearable sensor, the visual alert signal a function of one or more personalized thresholds related to a current level of stress that the first responder is experiencing, and wherein the alerting device harvests power from the existing portable radio.
2. The alert system of claim 1, wherein reducing the risk of the adverse health event further comprises reducing a risk of sudden cardiac death.
3. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the wearable sensor receives a collection of physiological data from the first responder; and wherein the one or more personalized thresholds are related to the physiological data.
4. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the wearable sensor receives a collection of environmental data from the first responder; and wherein the one or more personalized thresholds are related to the environmental data.
5. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the alerting device further comprises an adapter module that is sandwiched between the remote speaker/microphone connector communicably coupled to an existing remote speaker/microphone, and the existing portable radio.
6. The alert system of claim 5, wherein the adapter module includes a high-brightness light source for issuing the visual alert signal.
7. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the alerting device comprises a microphone/speaker module that replaces an existing remote speaker/microphone, where the microphone/speaker module is communicably coupled to the existing portable radio.
8. The alert system of claim 7, wherein the microphone/speaker module includes a first signal light, a second signal light, and a third signal light, wherein issuing the visual alert signal includes illuminating one of the first signal light, the second signal light, or the third signal light.
9. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the alerting device further comprises a transceiver for communicating the current level of stress that the first responder is experiencing to a cloud-based server.
10. The alert system of claim 1, further comprising a stress management application in wireless communication with the alerting device, wherein one or more settings of the alerting device, that include at least the one or more personalized thresholds, are set via the stress management application.
11. The alert system of claim 1, wherein the alerting device further comprises a status check actuator that, when actuated, results in synthesis of a voice announcement related to the current level of stress that the first responder is experiencing; and wherein the status check actuator is illuminated via a color of light different than that of the visual alert signal.
12. The alert system of claim 1, wherein a color of the visual alert signal is related to an intensity of the current level of stress that the first responder is experiencing; and wherein a patterning of the visual alert signal is related to a duration of the current level of stress that the first responder is experiencing.
13. An alert system for monitoring physiological and/or environmental parameters that relate to a stress level experienced by a first responder, and issuing an alert as a function of the stress level, the alert system comprising: an alerting device comprising an adapter module that is communicably coupled to and sandwiched between an existing portable radio and an existing remote speaker/microphone, the adapter module arranged entirely outside of the existing portable radio and the existing remote speaker/microphone and configured to harvest power from the existing portable radio, the adapter module including a light source for at least partially issuing the alert and a low-power radio transceiver for wirelessly receiving the physiological and/or environmental parameters from a wearable sensor worn by the first responder; and a stress management application in wireless communication with the adapter module, for customizing one or more settings and one or more personalized thresholds for the first responder related to the stress level experienced by the first responder for issuing the alert.
14. The alert system of claim 13, wherein issuing the alert further comprises projecting a signal light from the light source, where a color of the signal light relates to an intensity of the stress level experienced by the first responder and where a blinking pattern of the signal light relates to a duration of the stress level experienced by the first responder.
15. The alert system of claim 13, wherein issuing the alert further comprises, via the adapter module, synthesizing a voice announcement related to the stress level experienced by the first responder and communicating the voice announcement to the first responder via the existing remote speaker/microphone and transmitting the voice announcement over the existing portable radio.
16. The alert system of claim 13, wherein the adapter module further comprises a transceiver for communicating the alert to a cloud-based server that stores data related to one or more alerts corresponding to the first responder or other first responders using the alert system, the cloud-based server in communication with the stress management application; and wherein the stress management application relies on machine learning to refine the one or more settings and/or one or more personalized thresholds for the first responder or other first responders using the alert system.
17. A method for reducing a risk of sudden cardiac death in a first responder, comprising: via an alerting device communicably coupled to an existing portable radio worn by the first responder, retrieving one or more parameters related to an intensity of a current stress level and a duration of the current stress level of the first responder, wherein the alerting device comprises an adapter module physically coupled to an outside of, and sandwiched between, the existing portable radio and a remote speaker/microphone connector, wherein the adapter module is configured to harvest power from the existing portable radio; issuing a visual alert via the alerting device corresponding to the intensity and the duration of the current stress level of the first responder; transmitting the intensity and the duration of the current stress level to a cloud-based server accessible via a stress management application; and composing a voice announcement based on the intensity of the current stress level and the duration of the current stress level.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the adapter module is communicably coupled to an existing remote speaker/microphone, the adapter module including a single light source for issuing the visual alert.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the alerting device comprises a microphone/speaker module that replaces an existing remote speaker/microphone; and wherein the microphone/speaker module includes a plurality of light sources for issuing the visual alert.
20. An alerting device for warning of a potential adverse health event for a first responder, comprising: one or more signal lights; an adapter module for communicably coupling to a portable radio; a transceiver; and a processor; wherein the processor executes instructions to: generate a visual alert signal with the one or more signal lights based on sensor data and personalized thresholds to create a pattern corresponding to a duration of a stress event, wherein the one or more signal lights are arranged on the adapter module physically coupled to an outside of, and configured to harvest power from, the portable radio.
21. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the alerting device further comprises an adapter remote speaker/microphone connector.
22. The alerting device of claim 21, wherein the adapter module is physically coupled to the portable radio on a first side of the adapter module and the adapter remote speaker/microphone connector is physically coupled to a second side, opposite the first side, of the adapter module.
23. The alerting device of claim 21, wherein the adapter module comprises a bottom surface, and wherein the one or more signal lights are disposed on the bottom surface.
24. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the alerting device further comprises a speaker and a microphone.
25. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the processor further executes instructions to compose a voice announcement based on the sensor data and the personalized thresholds.
26. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the transceiver links the alerting device to a stress management application, and wherein the personalized thresholds are received by the transceiver from the stress management application.
27. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the processor further executes instructions to transmit the sensor data to a remote storage device.
28. The alerting device of claim 20, wherein the transceiver is a low-power radio transceiver for receipt of the sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
