<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/00,A61B34/10,G06F3/048,G06T15/00,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEARTFLOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAYLOR, CHARLES, A.
BAI YING
GRADY, LEO
SCHAAP, MICHIEL
JAQUET, CLARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55755742
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for determining and visualizing a functional relationship between a vascular network and perfused tissue
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for creating an interactive tool for determining and displaying a functional relationship between a vascular network and an associated perfused tissue. One method includes receiving a patient-specific vascular model of a patient's anatomy, including at least one vessel of the patient; receiving a patient-specific tissue model, including a tissue region associated with the at least one vessel of the patient; receiving a selected area of the vascular model or a selected area of the tissue model; and generating a display of a region of the tissue model corresponding to the selected area of the vascular model or a display of a portion of the vascular model corresponding to the selected area of the tissue model, respectively.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for displaying information of a functional relationship between a vasculature and a perfused tissue, the method comprising: receiving a patient-specific vascular model of a patient's anatomy; receiving a patient-specific tissue model of the patient's anatomy, the patient-specific tissue model describing a tissue supplied at least in part with blood through a vasculature described by the patient-specific vascular model; generating a user interface comprising a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific vascular model and a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific tissue model; receiving, via the user interface, a selection indicating a portion of a first model, the first model being one of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model having a blood supply relationship with an associated portion of a second model, the second model being another of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model; and upon receiving the selection of the portion of the first model, displaying, in the user interface: the portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, or a blood supply estimate inside or near one of the indicated portion of the first model and the associated portion of the second model.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first model is the patient-specific vascular model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the vasculature, the second model is the patient-specific tissue model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a portion of the tissue supplied by blood passing through the portion of the vasculature.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the displaying displays the associated portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, and the associated portion of the second model is a region of a geometrical model of the patient-specific tissue model or a region of a bulls-eye model of the patient-specific tissue model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the indicated portion of the first model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the vasculature, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the vasculature based on the patient-specific vascular model.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the associated portion of the second model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the tissue, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the tissue based on the patient-specific tissue model.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first model is the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the tissue, the second model is the patient-specific vascular model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a location of the vasculature that supplies blood to the portion of the tissue.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the displaying displays the associated portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, and the indicated portion of the first model is a region of a geometrical model of the patient-specific tissue model or a region of a bulls-eye model of the patient-specific tissue model.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the one of the indicated portion of the first model and the associated portion of the second model, and the blood supply estimate is a blood pressure, a blood flow, a blood flow rate, or a blood speed.
9. A system for displaying information of a functional relationship between a vasculature and a perfused tissue, the system comprising: at least one data storage device storing instructions for creating an interactive tool for determining and displaying a functional relationship between a vascular network and an associated perfused tissue; and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions to perform a method including: receiving a patient-specific vascular model of a patient's anatomy; receiving a patient-specific tissue model of the patient's anatomy, the patient-specific tissue model describing a tissue supplied at least in part with blood through a vasculature described by the patient-specific vascular model; generating a user interface comprising a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific vascular model and a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific tissue model; receiving, via the user interface, a selection indicating a portion of a first model, the first model being one of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model having a blood supply relationship with an associated portion of a second model, the second model being another of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model; and upon receiving the selection of the portion of the first model, displaying, in the user interface: the portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, or a blood supply estimate inside or near one of the indicated portion of the first model and the associated portion of the second model.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first model is the patient-specific vascular model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the vasculature, the second model is the patient-specific tissue model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a portion of the tissue supplied by blood passing through the portion of the vasculature.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the displaying displays the associated portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, and the associated portion of the second model is a region of a geometrical model of the patient-specific tissue model or a region of a bulls-eye model of the patient-specific tissue model.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the indicated portion of the first model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the vasculature, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the vasculature based on the patient-specific vascular model.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the associated portion of the second model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the tissue, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the tissue based on the patient-specific tissue model.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the first model is the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the tissue, the second model is the patient-specific vascular model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a location of the vasculature that supplies blood to the portion of the tissue.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing operations for displaying information of a functional relationship between a vasculature and a perfused tissue, the operations comprising: receiving a patient-specific vascular model of a patient's anatomy; receiving a patient-specific tissue model of the patient's anatomy, the patient-specific tissue model describing a tissue supplied at least in part with blood through a vasculature described by the patient-specific vascular model; generating a user interface comprising a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific vascular model and a display of at least a portion of the patient-specific tissue model; receiving, via the user interface, a selection indicating a portion of a first model, the first model being one of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model having a blood supply relationship with an associated portion of a second model, the second model being another of the patient-specific vascular model and the patient-specific tissue model; and upon receiving the selection of the portion of the first model, displaying, in the user interface: the portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, or a blood supply estimate inside or near one of the indicated portion of the first model and the associated portion of the second model.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first model is the patient-specific vascular model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the vasculature, the second model is the patient-specific tissue model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a portion of the tissue supplied by blood passing through the portion of the vasculature.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the displaying displays the associated portion of the second model in a manner indicating that the associated portion of the second model has the blood supply relationship with the indicated portion of the first model, and the associated portion of the second model is a region of a geometrical model of the patient-specific tissue model or a region of a bulls-eye model of the patient-specific tissue model.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the indicated portion of the first model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the vasculature, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the vasculature based on the patient-specific vascular model.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the displaying displays the blood supply estimate inside or near the associated portion of the second model, the blood supply estimate is an estimate of a blood supply in the tissue, and the method comprises, prior to the displaying, determining the estimate of blood supply in the tissue based on the patient-specific tissue model.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first model is the patient-specific tissue model, the indicated portion of the first model represents a portion of the tissue, the second model is the patient-specific vascular model, and the blood supply relationship is a relationship in which the associated portion of the second model represents a location of the vasculature that supplies blood to the portion of the tissue.
</claims>
</document>
