<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F9/451,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
Grayson, David
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664200
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Context-specific interpretation of computer commands
</title>

<abstract>
To provide context-specific interpretation of a user interaction with a user interface of a computer application, a processor may detect a user interaction with a user interface (UI). The processor may analyze the user interaction to determine a plurality of action details. The processor may generate a user context based on the plurality of action details and additional context information. The processor may select at least one operation relevant to the user interaction and context. The processor may cause the computer application to perform the operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing context-specific interpretation of a user interaction with a user interface of computer application comprising: detecting, by a processor, a user interaction with a user interface (UI); analyzing, by the processor, the user interaction to determine a plurality of action details; generating, by the processor, a user context based on the plurality of action details and additional context information, wherein the generating the user context includes assembling a beacon embedding by taking each type of the plurality of action details as a separate input; selecting, by the processor, at least one operation relevant to the user interaction and context; and causing, by the processor, the computer application to perform the operation, wherein: generating the user context includes processing the beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in a memory in communication with the processor, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context, and generating the beacon embedding includes assembling the beacon embedding from a combination of the plurality of action details taken as a single input.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of action details include a type of the action, a detail about the action, a location of the action within a UI page, a location of the UI page, or a combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the user context includes: processing the beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in a memory in communication with the processor, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the beacon embedding includes assembling the beacon embedding from a combination of the plurality of action details taken as a single input.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising creating, by the processor, the plurality of known beacon embeddings.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the creating includes analyzing a plurality of historical action details with a machine learning algorithm.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the user context includes: retrieving a plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings for a user session including the user interaction stored in a memory in communication with the processor; and averaging the beacon embedding and the plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings to generate an averaged beacon embedding.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein generating the user context includes processing the averaged beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in the memory, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the averaging is a weighted averaging giving more weight to the beacon embedding than is given to at least one of the plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting of the at least one operation includes selecting at least one help topic and the causing of the computer application to perform the operation includes causing the UI to display the at least one help topic.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the selecting of the help topic includes: comparing a beacon embedding based on the plurality of action details with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in a memory in communication with the processor, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with at least one of a plurality of available help topics; and selecting the help topic from among the at least one of a plurality of available help topics associated with a known beacon embedding that is similar to the beacon embedding.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising associating, by the processor, each of the known beacon embeddings with the at least one of the plurality of available help topics.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the associating includes analyzing a plurality of historical user contexts and historical help selections with a machine learning algorithm.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the help topic is selected based on the user context and at least one additional input.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one additional input includes a characteristic of the user, a characteristic of the UI, or a combination thereof.
16. A system for providing context-specific interpretation of a user interaction with a user interface of a computer application comprising: a memory configured to store a plurality of help topics; and a processor in communication with the memory and a user interface (UI), the processor configured to: detect a user interaction with the UI; analyze the user interaction to determine a plurality of action details; generate a user context based on the plurality of action details and additional context information, wherein the generating the user context includes assembling a beacon embedding by taking each type of the plurality of action details as a separate input; select at least one operation relevant to the user interaction and context from the memory; and cause the computer application to perform the operation wherein: generating the user context includes processing the beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in a memory in communication with the processor, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context, and generating the beacon embedding includes assembling the beacon embedding from a combination of the plurality of action details taken as a single input.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of action details include a type of the action, a detail about the action, a location of the action within a UI page, a location of the UI page, or a combination thereof.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to generate the user context by processing the beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in the memory, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is configured to generate the beacon embedding by performing processing including assembling the beacon embedding from a combination of the plurality of action details taken as a single input.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to create the plurality of known beacon embeddings.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the processor is configured to create the plurality of known beacon embeddings by performing processing including analyzing a plurality of historical action details with a machine learning algorithm.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to generate the user context by performing processing including: retrieving a plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings for a user session including the user interaction stored in the memory; and averaging the beacon embedding and the plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings to generate an averaged beacon embedding.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is configured to generate the user context by performing processing including processing the averaged beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in the memory, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the averaging is a weighted averaging giving more weight to the beacon embedding than is given to at least one of the plurality of previously-generated beacon embeddings.
25. The system of claim 16, wherein the processor selects the at least one operation by selecting at least one help topic and the processor causes the computer application to perform the operation by causing the UI to display the at least one help topic.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the processor is configured to select the help topic by performing processing including: comparing a beacon embedding based on the plurality of action details with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in the memory, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with at least one of a plurality of available help topics; and selecting the help topic from among the at least one of a plurality of available help topics associated with a known beacon embedding that is similar to the beacon embedding.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further configured to associate each of the known beacon embeddings with the at least one of the plurality of available help topics.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein the processor is configured to associate each of the known beacon embeddings with the at least one of the plurality of available help topics by performing processing including analyzing a plurality of historical user contexts and historical help selections with a machine learning algorithm.
29. The system of claim 16, wherein the help topic is selected based on the user context and at least one additional input.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the at least one additional input includes a characteristic of the user, a characteristic of the UI, or a combination thereof.
31. A method of providing context-specific interpretation of a user interaction with a user interface of computer application comprising: detecting, by a processor, a user interaction with a user interface (UT); analyzing, by the processor, the user interaction to determine a plurality of action details; generating, by the processor, a user context based on the plurality of action details and additional context information, wherein the generating the user context includes generating a beacon embedding via a machine learning process; selecting, by the processor, at least one operation relevant to the user interaction and context; and causing, by the processor, the computer application to perform the operation wherein: generating the user context includes processing the beacon embedding with a plurality of known beacon embeddings stored in a memory in communication with the processor, wherein each of the known beacon embeddings is associated with a known context, and generating the beacon embedding includes assembling the beacon embedding from a combination of the plurality of action details taken as a single input.
</claims>
</document>
