<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F12/1081,G06F13/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN HAO
CHEN, YAJUN
LI, SICONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62977888
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data transmission method, apparatus, device, and system
</title>

<abstract>
In a data transmission method, an SoC obtains a first request, where the first request includes a first address of a storage medium and an operation type, and the first address is an address assigned by a processor to the storage medium in a memory address managed by the processor; determines a second address according to the first address and generating a second request message, where the second address is an address assigned by the SoC to the storage medium in a memory address managed by the SoC; and sends first control instruction to a DMA controller of the storage medium according to the second address, where the first control instruction is used to instruct the DMA controller to obtain the second request message.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data transmission method implemented by a system on chip (SoC), the data transmission method comprising: obtaining a first request, wherein the first request comprising a first address of a storage medium and an operation type, wherein the first address is assigned by a processor to the storage medium in a first memory address managed by the processor; identifying, according to the first address, a second address assigned by the SoC to the storage medium in a second memory address managed by the SoC; generating a second request comprising the second address and the operation type; and sending, to a direct memory access (DMA) controller of the storage medium and according to the second address, a first control instruction instructing the DMA controller to obtain the second request.
2. The data transmission method of claim 1, when the operation type is a read operation, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving, from the DMA controller, first data obtained according to the second address; and sending the first data to the processor.
3. The data transmission method of claim 1, wherein when the operation type is a write operation, the method further comprises: receiving second data from the processor; and sending the second data to the DMA controller to trigger the DMA controller to write the second data to the storage medium according to the second address.
4. The data transmission method of claim 1, wherein before obtaining the first request, the method further comprises receiving, from the processor, a second control instruction carrying an identifier identifying the first request, and wherein obtaining the first request comprises obtaining the first request message based on the identifier.
5. The data transmission method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining from a preset address mapping table and according to the first address, a third address corresponding to the first address, wherein the preset address mapping table comprises a mapping relationship between the first address and the second address; and determining the that the third address is the second address.
6. The data transmission method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the first data from the DMA controller; mapping the second address to the first address according to a preset address mapping table; and forwarding the first data to the processor according to the first address.
7. The data transmission method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving from the DMA controller, a first interrupt indicating that the DMA controller has transmitted the first data to the SoC; and sending, to the processor in response to forwarding the first data to the processor, a second interrupt indicating the forwarding.
8. The data transmission method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving second data from the processor; mapping the first address to the second address; and sending the second data to the DMA controller according to the second address.
9. The data transmission method of claim 8, wherein before receiving the second data, the method further comprises: receiving from the DMA controller, a read request message carries carrying the second address; mapping the second address to the first address; generating a third request message instructing the processor to send the second data to the SoC; and sending the third request message to the processor.
10. A system on chip (SoC) comprising: a storage medium; and a first processor coupled to the storage medium and configured to: manage a first memory address; assign a first address to the storage medium in the first memory address; obtain a first request comprising the first address of the storage medium and an operation type; identify, according to the first address, a second address assigned by the SoC to the storage medium in a second memory address managed by the SoC; generate a second request comprising the second address and the operation type; and send to a direct memory access (DMA) controller of the storage medium and according to the second address, a first control instruction instructing the DMA controller to obtain the second request.
11. The SoC of claim 10, wherein when the operation type is a read operation, the first processor is further configured to: receive, from the DMA controller, first data obtained according to the second address; and send the first data to a second processor, wherein the second processor is coupled to the SoC using an extended Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (PCIe) communication bus.
12. The SoC of claim 10, wherein when the operation type is a write operation, the first processor is further configured to: receive second data from a second processor; and send the second data to the DMA controller to trigger the DMA controller to write the second data to the storage medium according to the second address.
13. The SoC of claim 10, wherein the first processor is further configured to: receive, before obtaining the first request, a second control instruction carrying an identifier used to identifying the first request; and obtain the first request based on the identifier.
14. The SoC of claim 10, wherein the first processor is further configured to: obtain, from a preset address mapping table and according to the first address, a third address corresponding to the first address, wherein the preset address mapping table comprises a mapping relationship between the first address and the second address; and determine that the third address is the second address.
15. The SoC of claim 10, wherein the first processor is further configured to: receive first data from the DMA controller; map the second address to the first address according to a preset address mapping table; and forward the first data to a second processor according to the first address.
16. The SoC of claim 15, wherein the first processor is further configured to: receive, from the DMA controller, a first interrupt indicating that the DMA controller has transmitted the first data to the SoC; and send, to the second processor in response to forwarding the first data to the second processor, a second interrupt indicating the forwarding.
17. The SoC of claim 10, wherein the first processor is further configured to: receive second data from a second processor; map the first address to the second address; and send the second data to the DMA controller according to the second address.
18. The SoC of claim 17, wherein the first processor is further configured to: receive, from the DMA controller, a read request message carrying the second address; map the second address to the first address; generate a third request message instructing a second processor to send the second data to the SoC; and send the third request message to the second processor.
19. A computer program product comprising computer-executable instructions for storage on a non-transitory computer-readable medium that, when executed by a first processor, cause a system on chip (SoC) to: manage a first memory address; assign a first address to a storage medium in the first memory address; obtain a first request comprising the first address of the storage medium and an operation type; identify, according to the first address, a second address assigned by the SoC to the storage medium in a second memory address managed by the SoC; generate a second request comprising the second address and the operation type; and send, to a direct memory access (DMA) controller of the storage medium and according to the second address, a first control instruction instructing the DMA controller to obtain the second request.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein the instructions further cause the SoC to: receive, from a second processor, a second control instruction carrying an identifier identifying the first request, wherein the second processor is coupled to the SoC using an extended Peripheral Component Interconnect Express (PCIe) communication bus; and obtain the first request based on the identifier.
</claims>
</document>
