<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01W1/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLETCHER; JAMES C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64738067
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamically scheduling a job plan based on weather information
</title>

<abstract>
A work order is dynamically scheduled by a computer system based on an electronic work order that includes information describing one or more tasks and a weather threshold associated with the one or more tasks. Based on the work order, the system creates a job plan, determines an amount and type of resources needed to complete the job plan, and schedules a time on which the job plan is to be performed. The system may further periodically receive weather forecast information from one or more weather information providers, and based on the weather forecast information, may initiate a job plan remedial process.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of dynamically scheduling a work order based on weather information comprising: receiving, via an electronic communications network, an electronic work order, wherein the electronic work order includes information describing one or more tasks to be performed; determining one or more weather thresholds and associations between the one or more weather thresholds and the one or more tasks by using a machine learning model to process the information describing the one or more tasks, wherein the machine learning model is trained using historical data of tasks performed and weather conditions existing when the tasks were performed, and wherein each of the one or more weather thresholds comprises one of a maximum estimated likelihood of precipitation and a minimum continuous interval during which a specific weather condition is satisfied; creating a job plan based on the work order, wherein the job plan includes the one or more tasks and the one or more weather thresholds; determining an amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; scheduling the one or more tasks to be performed based on an availability of the amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; receiving, via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from one or more weather information providers, and, based on the weather forecast information, predicting whether or not the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met when the one or more tasks are scheduled to occur; and when it is predicted that a weather threshold will not be met, initiating a job plan remedial process.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to scheduling the one or more tasks to be performed, receiving via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from the one or more weather information providers and wherein scheduling is further based on the weather forecast information.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises modifying the job plan.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein modifying the job plan comprises: based on the weather forecast information received after scheduling, determining when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met; and rescheduling the one or more tasks to be completed for when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises: generating an electronic notification for a user that the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks is not expected to be met; and forwarding, via an electronic communications network, the electronic notification to a user device associated with the user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises canceling the job plan.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising determining that one or more tasks associated with another electronic work order are dependent on the one or more tasks to be rescheduled, and rescheduling the one or more dependent tasks using weather forecast information.
8. A system for dynamically scheduling a work order based on weather information comprising: at least one processor configured to: receive, via an electronic communications network, an electronic work order, wherein the electronic work order includes information describing one or more tasks to be performed; determine one or more weather thresholds and associations between the one or more weather thresholds and the one or more tasks by using a machine learning model to process the information describing the one or more tasks, wherein the machine learning model is trained using historical data of tasks performed and weather conditions existing when the tasks were performed, and wherein each of the one or more weather thresholds comprises one of a maximum estimated likelihood of precipitation and a minimum continuous interval during which a specific weather condition is satisfied; create a job plan based on the work order, wherein the job plan includes the one or more tasks and the one or more weather thresholds; determine an amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; schedule the one or more tasks to be performed based on an availability of the amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; receive, via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from one or more weather information providers, and, based on the weather forecast information, predicting whether or not the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met when the one or more tasks are scheduled to occur; and when it is predicted that a weather threshold will not be met, initiate a job plan remedial process.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: prior to scheduling the one or more tasks to be performed, receive via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from the one or more weather information providers and wherein scheduling is further based on the weather forecast information.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises modifying the job plan.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein modifying the job plan comprises: based on the weather forecast information received after scheduling, determining when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met; and rescheduling the one or more tasks to be completed for when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises: generating an electronic notification for a user that the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks is not expected to be met; and forwarding, via an electronic communications network, the electronic notification to a user device associated with the user.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises canceling the job plan.
14. The system of claim 11, further comprising determining that one or more tasks associated with another electronic work order are dependent on the one or more tasks to be rescheduled, and rescheduling the one or more dependent tasks using weather forecast information.
15. A computer program product for dynamically scheduling a work order based on weather information comprising: a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by at least one processor to cause the at least one processor to: receive, via an electronic communications network, an electronic work order, wherein the electronic work order includes information describing one or more tasks to be performed; determine one or more weather thresholds and associations between the one or more weather thresholds and the one or more tasks by using a machine learning model to process the information describing the one or more tasks, wherein the machine learning model is trained using historical data of tasks performed and weather conditions existing when the tasks were performed, and wherein each of the one or more weather thresholds comprises one of a maximum estimated likelihood of precipitation and a minimum continuous interval during which a specific weather condition is satisfied; create a job plan based on the work order, wherein the job plan includes the one or more tasks and the one or more weather thresholds; determine an amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; schedule the one or more tasks to be performed based on an availability of the amount and type of resources needed to complete the one or more tasks; receive, via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from one or more weather information providers, and, based on the weather forecast information, predict whether or not the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met when the one or more tasks are scheduled to occur; and when it is predicted that a weather threshold will not be met, initiate a job plan remedial process.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the program instructions are further configured to cause the at least one processor to: prior to scheduling the one or more tasks to be performed, receive via an electronic communications network, weather forecast information from the one or more weather information providers and wherein scheduling is further based on the weather forecast information.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises modifying the job plan.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein modifying the job plan comprises: based on the weather forecast information received after scheduling, determining when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met; and rescheduling the one or more tasks to be completed for when the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks will be met.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises: generating an electronic notification for a user that the one or more weather thresholds associated with the one or more tasks is expected to not be met; and forwarding, via an electronic communications network, the electronic notification to a user device associated with the user.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein initiating the job plan remedial process comprises canceling the job plan.
</claims>
</document>
