<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/332,G06N7/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WWW.TRUSTSCIENCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAN, LEO M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
43899254
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Parallel computational framework and application server for determining path connectivity
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for social graph data analytics to determine the connectivity between nodes within a community are provided. A user may assign user connectivity values to other members of the community, or connectivity values may be automatically harvested or assigned from third parties or based on the frequency of interactions between members of the community. Connectivity values may represent such factors as alignment, reputation, status, and/or influence within a social graph of a network community, or the degree of trust. The paths connecting a first node to a second node may be retrieved, and social graph data analytics may be performed on the retrieved paths. For example, a network connectivity value may be determined from all or a subset of all of the retrieved paths. Network connectivity values and/or other social graph data may be outputted to third-party processes, services, and ratings agencies for use in initiating automatic transactions, making automated network-based or real-world decisions, determining or verifying the identity of a node within the community, scoring or ranking nodes, or making credit-granting decisions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining the network connectivity between a first node and a second node connected to the first node by at least one path, the method compromising: receiving, at a user device, a user request for a network connectivity value between a first entity of a network community and a second entity of a network community; transmitting an indication of the user request from the user device to a first remote server: receiving, at the user device, an indication of the network connectivity value from the first remote server, wherein the network connectivity value is a result of a process comprising: retrieving from a memory on the first remote server or a second remote server, a first list that identifies outgoing paths from the first node; retrieving from a memory on the first remote server or the second remote server, a second list that identifies incoming paths to the second node; joining paths to the second node from the first node, wherein joining paths comprises accessing the first list and the second list; and using processing circuitry to determine a network connectivity value based, at least in part, on the joined paths.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the processing circuitry determines a normalized path weight for each identified path by dividing a product of the link weights of each link in an identified path by a sum of the path weights of all identified paths.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the processing circuitry determines a user connectivity value for each identified path by multiplying the path weight for an identified path and a minimum connectivity value assigned to a link in the identified path.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the user connectivity value represents a subjective user trust value or competency assessment.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising using the processing circuitry to access third-party ratings data, wherein the network connectivity value is based, at least in part, on the third-party ratings information.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein joining paths to the second node from the first node comprises accessing data from a social networking service.
7. A user device for determining the network connectivity between a first node and a second node connected to the first node by at least one path, the user device comprising processing circuitry configured to: receive a user request for a network connectivity value between the first node and the second node; transmit an indication of the user request to a first remote server; receive an indication of the network connectivity value from the first remote server, wherein the network connectivity value is a result of a process comprising: retrieving from a memory on the first remote server or a second remote server, a first list that identifies outgoing paths from the first node; retrieving from the memory on the first remote server or the second remote server, a second list that identifies incoming paths to the second node; joining paths to the second node from the first node, wherein joining paths comprises accessing the first list and the second list; and determining a network connectivity value based, at least in part, on the joined paths.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the first remote server is further configured to access a link threshold value, wherein joining paths to the second node from the first node comprises joining only those paths containing fewer links than the accessed link threshold value.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein the first remote server is further configured to access a path weight threshold value, wherein joining paths to the second node from the first node comprises joining only those paths with a normalized path weight above the accessed path weight threshold value.
10. The system of claim 7 wherein the first remote server is further configured to determine a normalized path weight for each identified path by dividing a product of the link weights of each link in an identified path by a sum of the path weights of all identified paths.
11. The system of claim 7 wherein the first remote server is further configured to determine a user connectivity value for each identified path by multiplying the path weight for an identified path and a minimum connectivity value assigned to a link in the identified path.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the user connectivity value represents a subjective user trust value or competency assessment.
13. The system of claim 7 wherein the first remote server is further configured to access third-party ratings data, wherein the network connectivity indication is based, at least in part, on the third-party ratings information.
14. A system for determining the network connectivity between a first node and a second node connected to the first node by at least one path, the system compromising: means for receiving a user request for a network connectivity value; means for transmitting an indication of the user request to a first remote server; means for receiving an indication of the network connectivity value from the first remote server, wherein the network connectivity value has been determined by a system comprising: means for storing a first list that identifies outgoing paths from the first node; means for storing a second list that identifies incoming paths to the second node; means for joining paths to the second node from the first node, wherein joining paths comprises accessing the first list and the second list; and means for determining the network connectivity value based, at least in part, on the joined paths.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the system further comprises means for accessing a link threshold value, wherein the means for joining paths to the second node from the first node comprises means for joining only those paths containing fewer links than the accessed link threshold value.
16. The system of claim 14 wherein the system further comprises means for accessing a path weight threshold value, wherein the means for joining paths to the second node from the first node comprises means for joining only those paths with a normalized path weight above the accessed path weight threshold value.
17. The system of claim 14 wherein the system further comprises means for determining a normalized path weight for each identified path by dividing a product of the link weights of each link in an identified path by a sum of the path weights of all identified paths.
18. The system of claim 14 wherein the system further comprises means for determining a user connectivity value for each identified path by multiplying the path weight for an identified path and a minimum connectivity value assigned to a link in the identified path.
19. The system of claim 14 wherein the system further comprises means for outputting the network connectivity value to a requesting third-party process.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein the system further comprises means for automatically making at least one network-based decision based, at least in part, on the outputted network connectivity value.
</claims>
</document>
