<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/42,G06K9/46,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIAMMANTE, MARC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67617361
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating artificial images for use in neural networks
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes creating an input matrix of image data for a received input image and responsive to selecting a first image filter for generating an artificial image, the method applies a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data, where applying the first filter computation generates a first resulting matrix of image data. The method concatenates the first resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a first concatenated matrix of image data. The method generates an artificial image suitable for use in neural networks based on the concatenated matrix of image data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: creating, by one or more processors, an input matrix of image data for a received image; responsive to selecting a first image filter for generating an artificial image, applying, by one or more processors, a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data, wherein applying the first filter computation generates a first resulting matrix of image data; concatenating, by one or more processors, the first resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a first concatenated matrix of image data; and generating, by one or more processors, an artificial image suitable for use in neural networks based on the concatenated matrix of image data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to selecting a second image filter for generating the artificial image, applying, by one or more processors, a second filter computation for the second image filter to the input matrix of image data; and concatenating, by one or more processors, the first resulting matrix of image data and the second resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a second concatenated matrix of image data.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: appending, by one or more processors, the first resulting matrix of image data adjacent to the second resulting matrix of image data.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: modifying, by one or more processors, a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data to match a second size of the input matrix of image data.
5. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first size of the first resulting matrix of image data is smaller than the input matrix of image data and modifying a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data includes pixel duplication, interpolation, extrapolation, or padding with constant values to match a second size of the input matrix of image data.
6. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the first size of the first resulting matrix of image data is larger than the input matrix of image data and modifying a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data includes providing additional matrices to accommodate additional matrix data.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the received image is panchromatic.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein applying a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data further comprises: applying, by one or more processors, the first filter computation to each color layer of the input matrix of image data separately to return a single concatenated matrix for each color plane.
9. The method as claimed in claim 8, wherein each color layer is stacked to create an artificial grey image input matrix of image data.
10. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more computer processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to create an input matrix of image data for a received image; program instructions to, responsive to selecting a first image filter for generating an artificial image, apply a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data, wherein applying the first filter computation generates a first resulting matrix of image data; program instructions to concatenate the first resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a first concatenated matrix of image data; and program instructions to generate an artificial image suitable for use in neural networks based on the concatenated matrix of image data.
11. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: responsive to selecting a second image filter for generating the artificial image, apply a second filter computation for the second image filter to the input matrix of image data; and concatenate the first resulting matrix of image data and the second resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a second concatenated matrix of image data.
12. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: append the first resulting matrix of image data adjacent to the second resulting matrix of image data.
13. The computer system as claimed in claim 10, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: modify a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data to match a second size of the input matrix of image data.
14. The computer system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the first size of the first resulting matrix of image data is smaller than the input matrix of image data and modify a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data includes pixel duplication, interpolation, extrapolation, or padding with constant values to match a second size of the input matrix of image data.
15. The computer system as claimed in claim 13, wherein the first size of the first resulting matrix of image data is larger than the input matrix of image data and modify a first size of the first resulting matrix of image data includes providing additional matrices to accommodate additional matrix data.
16. The computer system as claimed in claim 10, wherein the received image is panchromatic.
17. The computer system as claimed in claim 10, wherein applying a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data further comprises program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: apply the first filter computation to each color layer of the input matrix of image data separately to return a single concatenated matrix for each color plane.
18. The computer system as claimed in claim 17, wherein each color layer is stacked to create an artificial grey image input matrix of image data.
19. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to create an input matrix of image data for a received image; program instructions to, responsive to selecting a first image filter for generating an artificial image, apply a first filter computation for the first image filter to the input matrix of image data, wherein applying the first filter computation generates a first resulting matrix of image data; program instructions to concatenate the first resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a first concatenated matrix of image data; and program instructions to generate an artificial image suitable for use in neural networks based on the concatenated matrix of image data.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: responsive to selecting a second image filter for generating the artificial image, apply a second filter computation for the second image filter to the input matrix of image data; and concatenate the first resulting matrix of image data and the second resulting matrix of image data to the input matrix of image data to generate a second concatenated matrix of image data.
</claims>
</document>
