<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W40/09,G06F16/00,G06F16/71,G06F16/73,G06F16/783,G06F17/30,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETRADYNE
NETRADYNE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JULIAN, DAVID JONATHAN
AGRAWAL, AVNEESH
VALIAPARAMBIL, ARUN
GUDENA, TEJESWARA RAO
MARINGANTI, ANIRUDH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61162513
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Short-term and long-term memory on an edge device
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for distributed video storage and search over edge computing devices having a short-term memory and a long-term memory. The method may comprise caching a first portion of data on a first device. The method may further comprise determining, at a second device, whether the first device has the first portion of data. The determining may be based on whether the first piece of data satisfies a specified criterion. The method may further comprise sending the data, or a portion of the data, and/or a representation of the data from the first device to a third device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving visual data at a device, wherein the visual data is captured at a first time at a camera that is proximate to the device, wherein the camera is affixed to a first vehicle, and wherein a second vehicle is visible in the visual data; storing the visual data at a first resolution in a memory of the device; processing the visual data at a processor coupled to the memory to produce an observations data, wherein the observations data comprises a descriptor of the second vehicle; determining a priority of the visual data, based at least in part on the descriptor of the second vehicle in the observations data; and storing the visual data at a second resolution in the memory based at least in part on the priority.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an elapsed time based on the first time; and wherein the priority is determined based at least in part on the elapsed time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the descriptor of the second vehicle comprises an indication that a license plate of the second vehicle may be discernible in the stored visual data at the first resolution.
4. A method comprising: receiving visual data at a device, wherein the visual data is captured at a first time at a camera that is proximate to the device, wherein the camera is affixed to a first vehicle, and wherein a traffic device or landmark is visible in the visual data; storing the visual data at a first resolution in a memory of the device; processing the visual data at a processor coupled to the memory to produce an observations data; determining an uncertainty of a position of the traffic device or landmark in a map; determining a priority of the visual data, wherein the priority of the visual data is based at least in part on the uncertainty and on the observations data; and storing the visual data at a second resolution in the memory based at least in part on the priority.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: identifying, based at least in part on the observations data, frames of the visual data in which the traffic device or landmark may be visible; selecting additional frames of the visual data based on the identified frames; and processing the selected additional frames at the processor coupled to the memory to produce additional observations data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein processing the visual data further comprises: determining one or more pixel boundaries corresponding to one or more detected visual objects in a first frame of the visual data; determining a second one or more pixel boundaries corresponding to a second one or more detected visual objects in a second frame of the visual data; wherein the first visual frame was captured before the second visual frame was captured; and wherein one of more intervening frames were captured at the camera after the first frame was captured and before the second frame was captured; determining a correspondence between a first detected visual object of the one or more detected visual objects in the first frame and a second detected visual object of the second one or more detected visual objects in the second frame; wherein the first detected visual object and the second visual object each correspond to the same traffic device or landmark; and wherein identifying frames of the visual data in which the traffic device or landmark may be visible is based at least in part on the determined correspondence.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining a second priority based on the observations data; and deleting the stored visual data at the second resolution from the memory based on the second priority.
8. A method comprising: receiving visual data at a device, wherein the visual data is captured at a first time at a camera that is proximate to the device, wherein the camera is affixed to a first vehicle; wherein a second vehicle is visible in the visual data; storing the visual data at a first resolution in a memory of the device; processing the visual data at a processor coupled to the memory to produce an observations data; wherein the observations data comprises a descriptor of the second vehicle; wherein the descriptor of the second vehicle comprises an indication that the second vehicle may have been involved in a rare traffic event; determining a priority of the visual data based at least in part on the observations data; and storing the visual data at a second resolution in the memory based at least in part on the priority; determining a second priority based on the observations data and based at least in part on the indication; and deleting the stored visual data at the second resolution from the memory based on the second priority.
9. A method comprising: receiving visual data at a device, wherein the visual data is captured at a first time at a camera that is proximate to the device; storing the visual data at a first resolution in a memory of the device; determining a priority of the visual data; storing the visual data at a second resolution in the memory based at least in part on the priority, wherein a first portion of the memory contains visual data stored at the first resolution, and wherein a second portion of the memory contains visual data stored at the second resolution; receiving an inference model at the device; receiving an indication of an input resolution associated with the inference model; selecting a stored visual data from at least one of the first portion of the memory and the second portion of the memory based at least in part on the indicated input resolution; and processing the selected visual data with the inference model at a processor coupled to the memory to produce an inference data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the inference model is configured to determine a traffic density based on visual data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the indicated input resolution corresponds to the second resolution, and wherein the stored visual data is selected from the second portion of the memory.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: transmitting the inference data to a second device.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: transmitting a portion of the selected visual data to a second device based at least in part on the inference data.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: selecting a second stored visual data from at least one of the first portion of memory and the second portion of memory based at least in part on the inference data; and processing the second stored visual data with the processor to produce a second inference data.
</claims>
</document>
