<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/00,G06Q40/08,G06T17/00,G06T7/593,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEISE, WILLIAM J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70736536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Photo deformation techniques for vehicle repair analysis
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system may use photo deformation techniques for vehicle repair analysis to determine a repair time for repairing a damaged vehicle part. A user's client device may generate a three-dimensional (3D) image or model of a damaged vehicle part by capturing several two-dimensional images of the damaged vehicle part. One or several characteristics of the damaged vehicle part may be extracted from the 3D model and the characteristics may be compared to characteristics for previously damaged vehicle part, where the actual repair times were measured. A repair time for the damaged vehicle part may be determined based on the comparison and displayed on the client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A server device for using photo deformation techniques for vehicle repair analysis, the server device comprising: one or more processors; a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors, and storing thereon instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the server device to: obtain a set of training data for previously damaged vehicle parts including actual repair times to repair the previously damaged vehicle parts, wherein the set of training data includes a plurality of subsets, each subset corresponding to a different actual repair time; for each subset, determine vehicle identification information and a plurality of previously damaged part characteristics for the previously damaged vehicle parts within the subset of the training data; when a vehicle part is damaged in a vehicle crash, receive, from a client device, vehicle identification information and currently damaged part characteristics for the currently damaged vehicle part, including: receiving three-dimensional image data depicting the currently damaged vehicle part; and analyzing the three-dimensional image data to identify the currently damaged part characteristics for the currently damaged vehicle part, including identifying a depth of a dent to the currently damaged vehicle part based on a difference in depth values within a portion of the three-dimensional image data corresponding to the dent; compare the vehicle identification information and the currently damaged part characteristics to the set of training data to determine a repair time for repairing the currently damaged vehicle part; and cause an indication of the repair time for repairing the currently damaged vehicle part to be displayed on a user interface of the client device.
2. The server device of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the server device to generate a statistical model for determining repair times for currently damaged vehicle parts according to currently damaged part characteristics based on the actual repair times, vehicle identification information, and previously damaged part characteristics for each subset in the training data.
3. The server device of claim 1, wherein an indication of the repair time includes a numerical value indicative of the repair time and a cost estimate for repairing the damaged vehicle part based on the repair time and an estimated rate for performing the repair.
4. The server device of claim 3, wherein the numerical value indicative of the repair time includes a confidence interval.
5. The server device of claim 1, wherein to compare the vehicle identification information and currently damaged part characteristics to the set of training data to determine a repair time for repairing the currently damaged vehicle part, the instructions cause the server device to: compare the vehicle identification information and the currently damaged part characteristics to the set of training data to identify likelihoods that the vehicle identification information and currently damaged part characteristics match with a plurality of subsets of the training data; rank the plurality of subsets of the training data according to the likelihoods that the vehicle identification information and the currently damaged part characteristics match; and combine the actual repair times associated with one or more of the plurality of subsets of the training data ranked above a threshold ranking to determine the repair time for repairing the currently damaged vehicle part.
6. The server device of claim 5, wherein to combine the actual repair times associated with one or more of the plurality of subsets of the training data, the instructions cause the server device to calculate a weighted average of the actual repair times associated with the one or more subsets of the training data, wherein subsets ranked higher receive heavier weights.
7. A client device for using photo deformation techniques for vehicle repair analysis, the client device comprising: a user interface; one or more image sensors; one or more processors communicatively coupled to the user interface and the one or more image sensors; a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors, and storing thereon instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the client device to: receive, via the user interface, vehicle identification information from a user for a vehicle involved in a vehicle crash; capture, via the one or more image sensors, three-dimensional image data each depicting a same damaged vehicle part from the vehicle; generate a three-dimensional model of the damaged vehicle part based on the three-dimensional image data; analyze the three-dimensional model to identify a plurality of damaged part characteristics for the damaged vehicle part, including identifying a depth of a dent to the damaged vehicle part based on a difference in depth values within a portion of the three-dimensional model corresponding to the dent; transmit the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a server device, wherein the server device compares the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a set of training data to determine a repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part; receive, from the server device, the repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part according to the comparison; and display an indication of the repair time on the user interface.
8. The client device of claim 7, wherein the one or more image sensors includes a laser scanning device removably attached to the client device.
9. The client device of claim 7, wherein to capture the three-dimensional image data, the instructions cause the client device to capture a plurality of two-dimensional images each depicting the same damaged vehicle part at a plurality of positions and angles from the damaged vehicle part.
10. The client device of claim 7, wherein the damaged part characteristics further include at least one of: a type of the damaged vehicle part, a dent circumference of the dent to the damaged vehicle part, a dent radius, or a shape of the dent.
11. The client device of claim 7, wherein the server device compares the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a set of training data having a plurality of subsets of the training data each including vehicle identification information, damaged part characteristics, and an actual repair time for repairing a vehicle having the vehicle identification and damaged part characteristics, and when there is match, the server device identifies the actual repair time for the matching subset as the repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part.
12. The client device of claim 7, wherein an indication of the repair time includes a numerical value indicative of the repair time and a cost estimate for repairing the damaged vehicle part based on the repair time and an estimated rate for performing the repair.
13. The client device of claim 7, wherein to capture the three-dimensional image data each depicting a same damaged vehicle part from the vehicle, the instructions cause the client device to: display an image capture screen instructing the user to capture an image of the damaged vehicle part within a set of boundaries displayed on the image capture screen; capture, via the one or more image sensors, an image of the damaged vehicle part within the set of boundaries; display a plurality of additional image capture screens instructing the user to capture a plurality of additional images of the damaged vehicle part within a plurality of additional sets of boundaries, wherein each additional set of boundaries is at a different orientation relative to the damaged vehicle part; capture, via the one or more image sensors, the plurality of additional images of the damaged vehicle part within the plurality of additional sets of boundaries; and combine the captured image and plurality of additional images to generate the three-dimensional model.
14. A method for using photo deformation techniques for vehicle repair analysis, the method executed by one or more processors programmed to perform the method, the method comprising: receiving, at one or more processors in a client device, vehicle identification information from a user for a vehicle involved in a vehicle crash; capturing, by the one or more processors via one or more image sensors communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, three-dimensional image data depicting a same damaged vehicle part from the vehicle; generating, by the one or more processors, a three-dimensional model of the damaged vehicle part based on the three-dimensional image data analyzing, by the one or more processors, the three-dimensional image data to identify a plurality of damaged part characteristics for the damaged vehicle part, including identifying a depth of a dent to the damaged vehicle part based on a difference in depth values within a portion of the three-dimensional model corresponding to the dent; transmitting, by the one or more processors, the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a server device, wherein the server device compares the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a set of training data to determine a repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part; receiving, at the one or more processors from the server device, the repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part according to the comparison; and displaying, by the one or more processors, an indication of the repair time on a user interface.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the one or more image sensors includes a laser scanning device removably attached to the client device.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein capturing the three-dimensional image data includes capturing, via the one or more image sensors, a plurality of two-dimensional images each depicting the same damaged vehicle part at a plurality of positions and angles from the damaged vehicle part.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the damaged part characteristics further include at least one of: a type of the damaged vehicle part, a dent circumference of the dent to the damaged vehicle part, a dent radius, or a shape of the dent.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the server device compares the vehicle identification information and the plurality of damaged part characteristics to a set of training data having a plurality of subsets of the training data each including vehicle identification information, damaged part characteristics, and an actual repair time for repairing a vehicle having the vehicle identification and damaged part characteristics, and when there is match, the server device identifies the actual repair time for the matching subset as the repair time for repairing the damaged vehicle part.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein an indication of the repair time includes a numerical value indicative of the repair time and a cost estimate for repairing the damaged vehicle part based on the repair time and an estimated rate for performing the repair.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein capturing the three-dimensional image data each depicting a same damaged vehicle part from the vehicle includes: displaying, by the one or more processors, an image capture screen instructing the user to capture an image of the damaged vehicle part within a set of boundaries displayed on the image capture screen; capturing, by the one or more processors via the one or more image sensors, an image of the damaged vehicle part within the set of boundaries; displaying, by the one or more processors, a plurality of additional image capture screens instructing the user to capture a plurality of additional images of the damaged vehicle part within a plurality of additional sets of boundaries, wherein each additional set of boundaries is at a different orientation relative to the damaged vehicle part; capturing, by the one or more processors via the one or more image sensors, the plurality of additional images of the damaged vehicle part within the plurality of additional sets of boundaries; and combining, by the one or more processors, the captured image and the plurality of additional images to generate the three-dimensional model.
</claims>
</document>
