<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03K19/17724,H03K19/17736,H03K19/17772,H04B1/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOWIN SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
LIU JIANHUA
ZHU JINGHUI
Jennings, Grant Thomas
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU JIANHUA
ZHU JINGHUI
Jennings, Grant Thomas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73052147
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for providing a programmable logic device having a configurable wireless communication block field
</title>

<abstract>
A semiconductor device contains an integrated circuit ("IC") capable of being selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions. The device, in one embodiment, includes multiple logic blocks ("LBs"), a routing fabric, and a configurable wireless communication block ("WCB"). The configurable LBs is able to be selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions. The routing fabric is used to route information between the configurable LBs and input/output ports based on a routing configuration signals. The configurable WCB, having a control circuit and a built-in transceiver, is configured to facilitate transmitting information between the IC and an external system via a wireless communications network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor device containing an integrated circuit ("IC") able to be selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions, the device comprising: a plurality of configurable logic blocks ("LBs") able to be selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions; a routing fabric coupled the plurality of configurable LBs and configured to selectively route information between the plurality of configurable LBs and input/output ports based on a routing configuration signals; and a configurable wireless communication block ("WCB") coupled to the plurality of configurable LBs and having a control circuit and a built-in transceiver, the configurable WCB configured to facilitate transmitting information between the IC and an external system via a wireless communications network.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the built-in transceiver includes a Wi-Fi transmitter and a Wi-Fi receiver.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the built-in transceiver includes a Bluetooth transmitter and a Bluetooth receiver.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the built-in transceiver includes a cellular transmitter and a cellular receiver.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the built-in transceiver includes a selectable Wi-Fi transceiver and a selectable Bluetooth transceiver.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the control circuit is configured to select one of the selectable Wi-Fi transceiver and the selectable Bluetooth transceiver.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to selectively activate at least a portion of the plurality of configurable LBs based on a wake-up signal received by the built-in transceiver via the wireless communications network.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to selectively place at least a portion of the plurality of configurable LBs into a sleep mode for power conservation in response to a sleep signal received by the built-in transceiver via the wireless communications network.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the control circuit is configured to manage power distribution to at least a portion of the plurality of configurable LBs in response to a power signal received by the built-in transceiver via the wireless communications network.
10. A system able to provide various digital processing functions and network communications comprising the device of claim 1.
11. A method of a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") containing a programmable wireless communication block ("WCB"), the method comprising: receiving a communication request by a built-in wireless transceiver ("BWT") from a remote system via a wireless communications network; obtaining data from at least one of a plurality of configurable logic blocks ("LBs") in accordance with the communication request via a routing fabric; generating a data packet in accordance with a first wireless transmission protocol based on the data; and transmitting the data packet via the BWT to the remote system via the wireless communications network.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising selecting a Wi-Fi transceiver from the programmable WCB in response to a wireless control signal.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising selecting one of a Bluetooth transceiver, a Wi-Fi transceiver, a cellular transceiver, and a satellite transceiver in the programmable WCB according to a wireless control signal.
14. A method of claim 11, wherein receiving a communication request includes a Wi-Fi signal by a built-in Wi-Fi transceiver via a Wi-Fi network.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining data from at least one of a plurality of configurable logic blocks ("LBs") includes: waking up at least some of the LBs by a control circuit in the programmable WCB in accordance with the communication request; and processing the data by the LBs according to the communication request.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein generating a data packet includes composing a data stream in a predefined Wi-Fi protocol by a built-in Wi-Fi transmitter.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein transmitting the data packet includes transmitting the data stream to the remote system via a Wi-Fi communications network.
18. A module containing multiple integrated circuits ("ICs") able to be selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions, the device comprising: a substrate configured to provide interconnections; a first IC placed over the substrate and containing a plurality of configurable logic blocks ("LBs") and a routing fabric, the configurable LB able to be selectively programmed to perform one or more logic functions; and a second IC placed over the substrate and configured to include a configurable wireless communication block ("WCB") having a control circuit and a built-in transceiver, the configurable WCB configured to facilitate transmitting information between the module and an external system via a wireless communications network.
19. The module of claim 18, wherein the built-in transceiver includes a selectable Wi-Fi transceiver and a selectable Bluetooth transceiver.
20. The module of claim 18, wherein the control circuit is configured to select one of the selectable Wi-Fi transceiver and the selectable Bluetooth transceiver.
21. A method of providing power management for a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") containing a programmable wireless communication block ("WCB"), the method comprising: maintaining a built-in wireless transceiver ("BWT") in an active mode while placing at least a portion of logic blocks ("LBs") of FPGA in a sleep mode for power conservation; receiving an access request by the BWT from a remote system via a wireless communications network; activating a portion of LBs of FPGA from the sleep mode by the BWT in response to the access request; and retrieving data from the portion of LB in accordance with the access request via a routing fabric.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising generating a data packet in accordance with a first wireless transmission protocol based on the data.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising transmitting the data packet via the BWT to the remote system via the wireless communications network.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein maintaining a BTW in an active mode including continuously supplying power to the BTW.
25. The method of claim 21, wherein placing at least a portion of LBs of FPGA in a sleep mode includes halting power supply to the at least the portion of LBs.
</claims>
</document>
