<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T1/20,G06T1/60,G06T15/00,G09G5/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
JASOLIYA, JAYMIN B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66949622
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent memory DVFS scheme exploiting graphics inter-frame level correlation
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus relating to techniques for intelligent memory DVFS (Dynamic Voltage and Frequency Scaling) scheme exploiting graphics inter-frame level correlation are described. In an embodiment, collection logic collects bandwidth usage information by a system agent during performance of one or more operations associated with a first graphics workload. Memory stores the collected bandwidth usage information. The selection logic causes selection of an operating frequency for the system agent to perform a plurality of operations associated with one or more graphics workloads based at least on the stored collected bandwidth usage information. The one or more graphics workloads occur after the first graphics workload. Other embodiments are also disclosed and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: collection logic to collect bandwidth usage information by a system agent during performance of one or more operations associated with a first graphics workload, wherein the first graphics workload comprises at least one frame; and memory to store the collected bandwidth usage information, wherein selection logic is to cause selection of an operating frequency for the system agent to perform a plurality of operations associated with one or more graphics workloads based at least on the stored collected bandwidth usage information and a bandwidth histogram, wherein each of the one or more graphics workloads comprises one or more frames, wherein the one or more graphics workloads are to occur immediately after the at least one frame of the first graphics workload, wherein generation logic is to generate the bandwidth histogram based at least in part on the collected bandwidth usage information during operations with a high frequency point to obtain an unconstrained bandwidth profile.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first graphics workload or the one or more graphics workloads comprise one or more tile passes or render passes.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the system agent comprises a memory device or a memory controller.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the memory device comprises volatile or non-volatile memory.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the volatile memory comprises Dynamic Random Access memory.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the bandwidth usage information is to comprise bandwidth usage of an interface between the system agent and graphics logic.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the graphics logic comprises a processor or a graphics processing unit.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein a processor comprises one or more of: the collection logic, the memory, or the selection logic.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor comprises a Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) having one or more graphics processing cores.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor comprises one or more processor cores.
11. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein one or more of: a processor, the collection logic, the selectin logic, and memory are on a single integrated circuit die.
12. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media comprising one or more instructions that when executed on at least one processor configure the at least one processor to perform one or more operations to cause: collection logic to collect bandwidth usage information by a system agent during performance of one or more operations associated with a first graphics workload, wherein the first graphics workload comprises at least one frame; and storage of the collected bandwidth usage information in memory, wherein selection logic is to cause selection of an operating frequency for the system agent to perform a plurality of operations associated with one or more graphics workloads based at least on the stored collected bandwidth usage information and a bandwidth histogram, wherein each of the one or more graphics workloads comprises one or more frames, wherein the one or more graphics workloads are to occur immediately after the at least one frame of the first graphics workload, wherein the bandwidth histogram is generated based at least in part on the collected bandwidth usage information during operations with a high frequency point to obtain an unconstrained bandwidth profile.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the first graphics workload or the one or more graphics workloads comprise one or more tile passes or render passes.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the system agent comprises a memory device or a memory controller.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 14, wherein the memory device comprises volatile or non-volatile memory.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein the volatile memory comprises Dynamic Random Access memory.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the bandwidth usage information is to comprise bandwidth usage of an interface between the system agent and graphics logic.
18. A computing system comprising: a processor having one or more processor cores; memory, coupled to the processor, to store one or more bits of data; and collection logic to collect bandwidth usage information by a system agent during performance of one or more operations associated with a first graphics workload, wherein the first graphics workload comprises at least one frame, wherein the memory is to store the collected bandwidth usage information; and wherein selection logic is to cause selection of an operating frequency for the system agent to perform a plurality of operations associated with one or more graphics workloads based at least on the stored collected bandwidth usage information and a bandwidth histogram, wherein each of the one or more graphics workloads comprises one or more frames, wherein the one or more graphics workloads are to occur immediately after the at least one frame of the first graphics workload, wherein generation logic is to generate the bandwidth histogram based at least in part on the collected bandwidth usage information during operations with a high frequency point to obtain an unconstrained bandwidth profile.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the first graphics workload or the one or more graphics workloads comprise one or more tile passes or render passes.
20. The system of claim 18, comprising generation logic to generate a histogram based at least in part on the collected bandwidth usage information.
</claims>
</document>
