<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRUITSPEC
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULA, RAVIV
MARGALIT, NIR
NITSAN, SHAHAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62107953
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for crop yield estimation
</title>

<abstract>
A method for identifying the presence of fruit in image data in an image sensor of a scene includes acquiring image data in an image sensor for at least two distinct wavelengths of a scene. A normalized difference reflectivity index (NDRI) for each location in an array of locations in the image data is calculated with respect to said at least two distinct wavelengths. Regions in the array of locations are identified where the value of the calculated NDRI of the locations in these regions is within a range of values indicative of a presence of fruits in the scene. An output is generated on an output device with information related to the identified presence of fruits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for identifying the presence of fruit in image data of a scene, the system comprising: a processor configured to: receive image data at least two distinct wavelengths of a scene, wherein said at least two distinct wavelengths comprise (a) 970 nanometers (nm) ±15 nm, and (b) 810 nm ±15 nm or 835 nm ±15 nm; calculate a normalized difference reflectivity index (NDRI) for each location in an array of locations in the image data with respect to said at least two distinct wavelengths, to identify regions in the array of locations where the value of the calculated NDRI of the locations in these regions is within a range of values indicative of a presence of fruits in the scene; estimate a number of fruits in the identified regions which include an overlap between two or more fruits in a fruit cluster using a deep learning module; and generate an output on an output device with information related to the identified presence of fruits.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the system comprises at least one image sensor configured to acquire said image data of a scene at said at least two distinct wavelengths.
3. The system according to claim 2, wherein the image sensor comprises a beam splitter configured to split light concurrently onto at least two arrays of light sensors in the image sensor, each of the at least two arrays sensitive to light at each of the at least two distinct wavelengths, so as to acquire image data of the scene at the at least two distinct wavelengths.
4. The system according to claim 2, wherein the image sensor comprises at least two bandpass filters with passband frequencies corresponding to the at least two distinct wavelengths.
5. The system according to claim 2, further comprising a vehicle configured to move through a geographical region with the image sensor mounted on the vehicle, and wherein the image sensor is configured to acquire image data of a plurality of scenes of the geographical region.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein plurality of scenes comprises a plurality of images of fruit trees in the geographical region and wherein the processor is configured to use the information from the image data of the plurality of scenes so as to estimate a number of fruits in the fruit trees in the geographical region.
7. The system according to claim 6, further comprising a global positioning system (GPS) unit communication unit, and wherein the processor is configured to identify locations of fruit trees in the geographical region using GPS data.
8. The system according to claim 5, wherein a plurality of scenes comprises a plurality of images of at least one of trees, decumbent plants, bushes, groves, plots and fields in the geographical region, and wherein the processor is configured to use the information from the image data of the plurality of scenes so as to estimate a number of fruits on the plants in the geographical region.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the generated output with information related to the identified presence of fruits is stored in a storage device on a remote server.
10. The system according to claim 1, further comprising a database for storing the output with the information related to the identified presence of fruits.
11. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code executable by at least one hardware processor to: acquire image data of a scene at at least two distinct wavelengths, wherein said at least two distinct wavelengths comprise (a) 970 nanometers (nm) ±15 nm, and (b) 810 nm ±15 nm or 835 nm ±15 nm; calculate a normalized difference reflectivity index (NDRI) for each location in an array of locations in the image data with respect to said at least two distinct wavelengths, to identify regions in the array of locations where the value of the calculated NDRI of the locations in these regions is within a range of values indicative of a presence of fruits in the scene; estimate a distribution of fruit sizes in the scene using a deep learning module; and generate an output on an output device with information related to the identified presence of fruits.
12. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein the scene comprises a plant or a part of a plant.
13. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein said program code is executable to acquire said image data from at least one image sensor configured to acquire said image data of a scene at said at least two distinct wavelengths.
14. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein said image data comprises image data of a plurality of scenes of the geographical region.
15. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein the plurality of scenes comprises a plurality of images of fruit trees in the geographical region, and said program code is executable to use the information from the image data of the plurality of scenes to estimate a number of fruits in the fruit trees in the geographical region.
16. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein said program code is executable to identify locations of the fruit trees in the geographical region based on global positioning system (GPS) data.
17. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein said program code is executable to estimate a number of fruits in the identified regions which include an overlap between two or more fruits in a fruit cluster using a deep learning module.
18. The computer program product according to claim 11, wherein said program code is executable to generate output with information related to the identified presence of fruits and stores said information in a storage device on a remote server.
19. The computer program product according to claim 13, wherein said program code is executable to automatically acquire said image data from said image sensor, count fruit on identified fruit plants and map the number of fruit on the fruit plants over a geographical region.
</claims>
</document>
