<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MASON, JULIAN M.
MICHALAKIS, NIKOLAOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68839811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Debugging an autonomous driving machine learning model
</title>

<abstract>
A method for improving an autonomous driving system for an autonomous vehicle is disclosed. The method includes sub-sampling a frame generated by an output of a sensor and transmitting, to a remote device, the sub-sampled frame and classification data corresponding to the sub-sampled frame. The method also includes receiving, from the remote device, an adjustment to the autonomous driving system in response to the transmitted sub-sampled frame and classification data. The method further includes controlling an action of the autonomous vehicle based on the adjusted autonomous driving system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving sensor data generated by a sensor for an autonomous driving system of an autonomous vehicle; generating classification data corresponding to an object of interest identified from the sensor data; sub-sampling the sensor data based on the classification data; transmitting, from the autonomous vehicle to a remote device, the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; receiving, from the remote device, an adjustment to the autonomous driving system in response to the transmitted sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; and controlling, at the autonomous vehicle, an action based on the adjusted autonomous driving system.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: extracting features from the sensor data; generating the classification data based on the extracted features, the classification data comprising a label and a bounding box.
3. The method of claim 1, in which sub-sampling the sensor data comprises at least one of compressing the sensor data, reducing a frame rate of the sensor data, filtering an attribute of the sensor data, or a combination thereof.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data via a wireless network while the autonomous vehicle is active.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving the adjustment to the autonomous driving system when a review of the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data indicates that an accuracy of the classification data is less than an accuracy threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, in which the adjustment to the autonomous driving system comprises at least one of a re-trained object classification model, a software roll back, a software update, or a combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, in which controlling the action comprises planning a route for the autonomous vehicle or adjusting a planned route of the autonomous vehicle.
8. An autonomous vehicle, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory, the at least one processor configured: to receive sensor data generated by a sensor for an autonomous driving system; to generate classification data corresponding to an object of interest identified from the sensor data; to sub-sample the sensor data based on the classification data; to transmit, to a remote device, the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; to receive, from the remote device, an adjustment to the autonomous driving system in response to the transmitted sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; and to control an action of the autonomous vehicle based on the adjusted autonomous driving system.
9. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, in which the at least one processor is further configured: to extract features from the sensor data; to generate the classification data based on the extracted features, the classification data comprising a label and a bounding box.
10. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, in which the at least one processor is further configured to sub-sample the sensor data by at least one of compressing the sensor data, reducing a frame rate of the sensor data, filtering an attribute of the sensor data, or a combination thereof.
11. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, in which the at least one processor is further configured to transmit the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data via a wireless network while the autonomous vehicle is active.
12. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, in which the at least one processor is further configured to receive the adjustment to the autonomous driving system when a review of the sub-sampled and the classification data indicates that an accuracy of the classification data is less than an accuracy threshold.
13. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, in which the adjustment to the autonomous driving system comprises at least one of a re-trained object classification model, a software roll back, a software update, or a combination thereof.
14. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, the at least one processor is further configured to control the action by planning a route for the autonomous vehicle or adjusting a planned route of the autonomous vehicle.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having program code recorded thereon, the program code executed by a processor and comprising: program code to receive sensor data generated by a sensor for an autonomous driving system of an autonomous vehicle; program code to generate classification data corresponding to an object of interest identified from the sensor data; program code to sub-sample the sensor data based on the classification data; program code to transmit, to a remote device, the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; program code to receive, from the remote device, an adjustment to the autonomous driving system in response to the transmitted sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data; and program code to control an action of the autonomous vehicle based on the adjusted autonomous driving system.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, in which the program code further comprises: program code to extract features from the sensor data; and program code to generate the classification data based on the extracted features, the classification data comprising a label and a bounding box.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, in which the program code to sub-sample the sensor data comprises at least one of program code to compress the sensor data, program code to reduce a frame rate of the sensor data, program code to filter an attribute of the sensor data, or a combination thereof.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, in which the program code further comprises program code to transmit the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data via a wireless network while the autonomous vehicle is active.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, in which the program code further comprises program code to receive the adjustment to the autonomous driving system when a review of the sub-sampled sensor data and the classification data indicates that an accuracy of the classification data is less than an accuracy threshold.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, in which the adjustment to the autonomous driving system comprises at least one of a re-trained object classification model, a software roll back, a software update, or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
