<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/60,G06F30/00,G06F30/15,G06F9/451,G11B27/00,H04N5/232,H04N5/93,H04N9/64,H04N9/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, SUBHAM
Jain, Somya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051765
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Proficiency based tutorial modification
</title>

<abstract>
In implementations of proficiency based tutorial modification, a computing device implements a tutorial system to receive a user modification of a digital image. A difference between the user modification and an application modification of the digital image is determined. The tutorial system generates a proficiency score for an editing tool based on the difference between the user modification and the application modification, and the proficiency score indicates the user's proficiency in using the editing tool. The tutorial system generates a pre-modified input image for a tutorial depicting a modification applied to an input image to be modified in the tutorial using the editing tool based on the proficiency score for the editing tool being greater than a proficiency threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment to modify a tutorial for editing tools of an application for editing digital images, the editing tools described in corresponding tutorial steps of the tutorial, a method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: generating, by the computing device, a proficiency map for a user based on the user's use of the editing tools to edit a digital image, the proficiency map including proficiency scores for the editing tools that are calculated by comparing edits to the digital image by the user using the editing tools with edits to the digital image by an algorithm of the application using the editing tools, the proficiency scores indicating the user's proficiency using the editing tools; arranging, by the computing device, the tutorial steps of the tutorial in a modified relative order based on an ascending order of the proficiency scores of the proficiency map for the editing tools described in the corresponding tutorial steps; and generating, by the computing device, a modified tutorial having the tutorial steps in the modified relative order, the modified tutorial generated for display in a user interface.
2. The method as described in claim 1, further comprising: determining that a proficiency score of the proficiency scores for an editing tool of the editing tools is greater than a proficiency threshold; and removing a tutorial step of the tutorial steps that describes the editing tool from the modified tutorial based on the proficiency score for the editing tool being greater than the proficiency threshold.
3. The method as described in claim 2, further comprising generating a modified input image for the modified tutorial from an input image for the tutorial, the input image to be modified by the editing tools of the application in the corresponding tutorial steps of the tutorial, the modified input image depicting a modification applied to the input image using the editing tool.
4. The method as described in claim 1, wherein comparing the edits to the digital image by the user with the edits to the digital image by the algorithm of the application includes determining differences between the edits to the digital image by the user and the edits to the digital image by the algorithm.
5. The method as described in claim 4, further comprising determining that the differences are less than a difference threshold.
6. The method as described in claim 4, wherein the differences are distances.
7. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the editing tools of the application are order independent.
8. In a digital medium environment to modify tutorial steps of a tutorial, the tutorial steps corresponding to editing tools of an application for editing digital images, a system comprising: a proficiency module implemented at least partially in hardware of a computing device to: receive a user modification of a digital image, the user modification corresponding to a user's use of an editing tool of the editing tools to edit the digital image; determine a difference between the user modification and an application modification of the digital image, the application modification corresponding to use of an algorithm of the application to edit the digital image; and compute a proficiency score for the editing tool based on the difference between the user modification and the application modification, the proficiency score indicating the user's proficiency in using the editing tool; a comparison module implemented at least partially in the hardware of the computing device to compare the proficiency score for the editing tool to a proficiency threshold; and a modification module implemented at least partially in the hardware of the computing device to remove a tutorial step of the tutorial steps of the tutorial in response to the proficiency score for the editing tool being greater than the proficiency threshold, the tutorial step corresponding to the editing tool.
9. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the proficiency module is further implemented to determine a number of times that the user has used the editing tool is greater than a use threshold.
10. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the proficiency module is further implemented to determine that the difference between the user modification and the application modification is less than a difference threshold.
11. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the modification module is further implemented to generate an input image to be modified using the editing tools, the input image depicting a modification applied to the input image using the editing tool.
12. The system as described in claim 8, wherein the proficiency module is further implemented to update a proficiency map to include the proficiency score for the editing tool, the proficiency map mapping the user's proficiency scores to the editing tools of the application.
13. The system as described in claim 12, wherein the proficiency map includes a first proficiency score for a first editing tool of the editing tools described in a first tutorial step of the tutorial steps and a second proficiency score for a second editing tool of the editing tools described in a second tutorial step of the tutorial steps and wherein the modification module is further implemented to order the first tutorial step before the second tutorial step in the tutorial based on the first proficiency score being less than the second proficiency score.
14. The system as described in claim 12, wherein the proficiency map includes a first proficiency score for a first editing tool of the editing tools described in a first tutorial step of the tutorial steps and a second proficiency score for a second editing tool of the editing tools described in a second tutorial step of the tutorial steps and wherein the modification module is further implemented to order the first tutorial step after the second tutorial step in the tutorial based on the first proficiency score being greater than the second proficiency score.
15. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media comprising instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by a computing device in a digital medium environment to pre-modify an input image for a tutorial, the input image to be modified by editing tools of an application for editing digital images in corresponding tutorial steps of the tutorial, cause operations of the computing device including: receiving a user modification of a digital image, the user modification corresponding to a user's use of an editing tool of the editing tools to edit the digital image; determining a difference between the user modification and an application modification of the digital image, the application modification corresponding to use of an algorithm of the application to edit the digital image; determining that the difference between the user modification and the application modification is less than a difference threshold; computing a proficiency score for the editing tool based on the difference between the user modification and the application modification, the proficiency score indicating the user's proficiency in using the editing tool; and generating a pre-modified input image for the tutorial, the pre-modified input image depicting a modification applied to the input image using the editing tool based on the proficiency score for the editing tool being greater than a proficiency threshold.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media as described in claim 15, wherein computing the proficiency score for the editing tool includes determining a number of times that the user has used the editing tool is greater than a use threshold.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media as described in claim 15, the operations further including removing a tutorial step of the tutorial steps of the tutorial, the tutorial step corresponding to the editing tool.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media as described in claim 15, wherein the modification is at least one of an exposure modification, a contrast modification, a color temperature modification, and a white balance modification.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media as described in claim 15, wherein the difference between the user modification and the application modification is a distance.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media as described in claim 15, wherein the editing tools of the application are order independent.
</claims>
</document>
