<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L23/00,H02M1/00,H02M1/08,H05K1/02,H05K1/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Vicor Corporation
</assignee>

<inventors>
VINCIARELLI, PATRIZIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74191082
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Delivering power to semiconductor loads
</title>

<abstract>
Encapsulated electronic modules having complex contact structures may be formed by encapsulating panels containing a substrate comprising pluralities of electronic modules delineated by cut lines and having conductive interconnects buried within terminal holes and other holes drilled in the panel within the boundaries of the cut lines. Slots may be cut in the panel along the cut lines. The interior of the holes, as well as surfaces within the slots and on the surfaces of the panel may be metallized, e.g. by a series of processes including plating. Solder may be dispensed into the holes for surface mounting. Two or more panels may be stacked prior to singulation to form module stacks. Multi-cell converters having a large cell pitch may be combined with an interconnection module to provide vertical power delivery to semiconductor devices through a semiconductor power grid having a small pitch. The converters and interconnection modules may be fabricated in panels and stacked prior to singulation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of powering a semiconductor device having power input terminals, the method comprising: providing a power conversion module having conversion circuitry arranged in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output terminals, the conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals of the plurality of conversion cells at a second lower voltage, the converter output terminals being arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the converter output terminals; providing an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first side of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a surface of a second opposite side of the interconnection module in a second pattern configured to align with the power input terminals of the semiconductor device, the second pattern having a second spacing between x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; assembling the power conversion module to the first side of the interconnection module with each converter output terminal mated with and electrically connected to a respective x-input terminal; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals arranged in the first pattern and the power input terminals of the semiconductor device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked to form a module sandwich including the power conversion module in a first layer, electrical connections between the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals in a second layer, and the interconnection module in a third layer.
2. A method of powering a semiconductor device, including at least one semiconductor die having a plurality of die power input terminals arranged on a surface of the die and having edges of the semiconductor die defining a die footprint, the semiconductor device having power input terminals arranged within the footprint of the die, the method comprising: providing a power conversion module having conversion circuitry arranged in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output terminals, the conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals of the plurality of conversion cells at a second lower voltage, the converter output terminals being arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the converter output terminals; providing an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first side of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a surface of a second opposite side of the interconnection module in a second pattern arranged within the die footprint and configured to align with the power input terminals of the semiconductor device, the second pattern having a second spacing between x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; assembling the power conversion module to the first side of the interconnection module with each converter output terminal mated with and electrically connected to a respective x-input terminal; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals arranged in the first pattern and the power input terminals of the semiconductor device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked to form a module sandwich including the power conversion module in a first layer, electrical connections between the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals in a second layer, and the interconnection module in a third layer.
3. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the interconnection module further comprises filter circuitry connected to the x-input terminals and the x-output terminals.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the interconnection module further comprises a multilayer printed circuit board ("PCB"), and the filter circuitry comprises a plurality of capacitors mounted to a first surface of the PCB on the first side of the interconnection module.
5. The method of claim 3 wherein the second spacing is less than the first spacing.
6. The method of claim 3 wherein each conversion cell further comprises a first dimension and the first spacing is configured as a function of the first dimension.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein each conversion cell further comprises a second dimension, the first spacing further comprises a latitudinal spacing and a longitudinal spacing, and the latitudinal spacing is a function of the first dimension and the longitudinal spacing is a function of the second dimension.
8. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising configuring the conversion circuitry as a buck converter having a plurality of phases with each conversion cell configured to operate as a selected one of the phases.
9. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising configuring the conversion circuitry to convert power received from an input to the power conversion module at an input voltage, VIN, and input current, TIN, for delivery to the converter output terminals at an output voltage, VOUT, and an output current, IOUT, using a transformation ratio, K, where K=VOUT/VIN, that is essentially constant, subject to an equivalent output resistance.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising encapsulating the conversion circuitry to form a first surface of the power conversion module; encapsulating the interconnection module to form a first surface on the first side of the interconnection module; affixing the first surface of the power conversion module to the first surface of the interconnection module with the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals aligned using an adhesive, and forming solder connections between respective one of the output terminals and the x-input terminals.
11. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the interconnection module further comprises a multilayer printed circuit board ("PCB") and the method further comprises mounting at least one solder ball to the PCB for each x-output terminal.
12. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the interconnection module further comprises a multilayer printed circuit board ("PCB") and the method further comprises mounting at least one conductive pin to the PCB for each x-output terminal.
13. The method of claim 1 or 2 wherein the interconnection module further comprises a multilayer printed circuit board ("PCB") and the method further comprises providing the x-output terminals in a land grid array on the PCB.
14. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising attaching the semiconductor device to the interconnection module with the x-output terminals aligned with and electrically connected to respective ones of the power input terminals; and wherein the connections between the x-output terminals and the power input terminals form a fourth layer in the module sandwich.
15. The method of claim 1 or 2, further comprising assembling a first panel comprising a plurality of unsingulated power conversion modules; assembling a second panel comprising a plurality of unsingulated interconnection modules; wherein the assembling of the power conversion module and the interconnection module is performed using the first and second panels prior to singulation to form a panel sandwich and further comprises dispensing epoxy between the first and second panels and forming solder connections between each converter output terminal and each respective x-input terminal; and further comprising: cutting the panel sandwich along predetermined cut lines to singulate a plurality of the module sandwiches.
16. The method of claim 15 wherein the dispensing epoxy further comprises dispensing epoxy on the surface of at least one of the panels along the cut lines.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising reflowing solder and curing the epoxy.
18. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the x-output terminals with alternating polarities.
19. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the x-output terminals with polarities that alternate between adjacent columns.
20. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the x-output terminals with polarities that alternate between adjacent rows.
21. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the x-output terminals with polarities that alternate between adjacent x-output terminals.
22. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the converter output terminals with alternating polarities.
23. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the converter output terminals with polarities that alternate between rows.
24. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the converter output terminals with polarities that alternate between columns.
25. The method of claim 1 further comprising arranging the converter output terminals with polarities that alternate between adjacent converter output terminals.
26. The method of claim 21, further comprising assembling the sandwich structure to a substrate with the x-output terminals aligned with and electrically connected to respective terminals on a surface of the substrate, the substrate including a semiconductor device electrically connected to receive power from the power conversion module; and further comprising conducting heat vertically from the converter module through the sandwich structure including through the interconnection module and substrate.
27. A method of making power converters, the method comprising: assembling an encapsulated panel including a printed circuit board ("PCB") having electronic components mounted to the PCB and a plurality of conductive features enclosed within the panel and unexposed to an exterior surface of the panel, the panel comprising one or more power conversion modules having boundaries defined by one or more predetermined cut lines; configuring each of the one or more power conversion modules in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output nodes arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the output nodes, and wherein each output node is electrically connected to a respective conductive feature; selectively forming a plurality of holes in the exterior surface of the panel, each hole being formed at a respective predetermined location aligned with a respective output node, spaced apart from the cut lines, and exposing within the hole the respective conductive feature; selectively forming one or more conductive metal layers on the exterior surface of the panel including within the plurality of holes, the one or more conductive metal layers within each hole being in electrical contact with the respective conductive feature, to form a plurality of electrical contacts on the exterior surface of the panel; patterning the one or more conductive metal layers on the exterior surface to electrically isolate at least one electrical contact from one or more of the plurality of electrical contacts; cutting the panel along the one or more cut lines to singulate the one or more power conversion modules, each singulated power conversion module having a respective plurality of the electrical contacts formed on the exterior surface of the module.
28. The method of claim 27 further comprising selectively filling the plurality of holes with solder.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising planarizing the solder to a predetermined height relative to the exterior surface.
30. The method of claim 27 wherein each conversion cell further comprises a first dimension and a second dimension, the first spacing further comprises a latitudinal spacing and a longitudinal spacing, and the latitudinal spacing is a function of the first dimension and the longitudinal spacing is a function of the second dimension.
31. The method of claim 27, further comprising: providing an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first surface of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a second surface in a second pattern, the second pattern having a second spacing between the x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; assembling the first surface of the interconnection module to the power conversion module with each converter output terminal mated with and electrically connected to a respective x-input terminal, wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked to form a sandwich structure including the power conversion module in a first layer, electrical connections between the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals in a second layer, and the interconnection module in a third layer.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising assembling the sandwich structure to a substrate with the x-output terminals aligned with and electrically connected to respective terminals on a surface of the substrate.
33. The method of claim 32 wherein the substrate includes a semiconductor device electrically connected to receive power from the power conversion module.
34. A method of making electronic assemblies, the method comprising: providing an electronic module having electronic circuitry including circuit terminals arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the circuit terminals; providing an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first surface of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of circuit terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a second surface in a second pattern configured to align with external terminals of a third electronic device, the second pattern having a second spacing between the x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; assembling the electronic module to the first surface of the interconnection module with each circuit terminal mated with and electrically connected to a respective x-input terminal; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the circuit terminals arranged in the first pattern and the external terminals of the third electronic device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the electronic module and the interconnection module are stacked to form a module sandwich including the electronic module in a first layer, electrical connections between the circuit terminals and the x-input terminals in a second layer, and the interconnection module in a third layer; assembling a first panel comprising a plurality of unsingulated electronic modules; assembling a second panel comprising a plurality of unsingulated interconnection modules; wherein the assembling of the electronic module and the interconnection module is performed using the first and second panels prior to singulation to form a panel sandwich and further comprises dispensing a curable adhesive compound between the first and second panels and forming solder connections between each circuit terminal and each respective x-input terminal; and cutting the panel sandwich along predetermined cut lines to singulate a plurality of the module sandwiches.
35. The method of claim 34 wherein the dispensing the curable adhesive compound further comprises dispensing the curable adhesive compound on the surface of at least one of the panels along the cut lines.
36. The method of claim 34, further comprising reflowing solder and curing the adhesive compound.
37. A method of forming modular circuit assemblies, the method comprising: assembling first and second encapsulated panels each including a first multilayer printed circuit board ("PCB") having a plurality of conductive layers, a first plurality of electronic components mounted to a first surface of the PCB, and a first layer of cured encapsulant covering the first plurality of electronic components and the surface of the PCB, the first layer of cured encapsulant forming a first exterior surface of the encapsulated panel, the encapsulated panel comprising a plurality of unsingulated electronic modules, each electronic module having perimeter boundaries defined by one or more predetermined cut lines; selectively forming a plurality of terminal holes in the first exterior surface of each panel through the first layer at predetermined locations within the perimeter boundaries of each electronic module, each terminal hole being spaced apart from the cut lines and exposing within the terminal hole a respective conductive feature; selectively forming one or more conductive metal layers on the first exterior surface of each panel including within the plurality of terminal holes, the one or more conductive metal layers within each terminal hole being in electrical contact with the respective conductive feature; patterning the one or more conductive metal layers on the exterior surface, to form a plurality of electrical contacts on the exterior surface of each panel electrically isolated from at least one other electrical contact in the plurality of electrical contacts; assembling the first and second encapsulated panels with electrical contacts on the first panel aligned and mated with respective electrical contacts on the second panel to form a panel stack, the panel stack comprising a plurality of un-singulated module stacks, each module stack including an unsingulated electronic module in the first panel and a respective unsingulated electronic module in the second panel; and cutting the panel stack along the one or more cut lines to singulate the plurality of electronic module stacks.
38. The method of claim 37, further comprising dispensing a curable adhesive compound on the surface of at least one of the panels along the cut lines.
39. The method of claim 38, further comprising reflowing solder and curing the adhesive compound.
40. An apparatus comprising: a semiconductor device having power input terminals; a power conversion module having conversion circuitry arranged in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output terminals, the conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals of the plurality of conversion cells at a second lower voltage, the converter output terminals being arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the converter output terminals; and an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first surface of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a second surface in a second pattern configured to align with the power input terminals of the semiconductor device, the second pattern having a second spacing between x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; the converter output terminals of the power conversion module being mated with and electrically connected to respective x-input terminals of the interconnection module; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals arranged in the first pattern and the power input terminals of the semiconductor device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked with the power conversion module located at a first level, electrical connections between the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals at a second level, and the interconnection module at a third level.
41. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the semiconductor device comprises a die.
42. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the semiconductor device comprises a wafer.
43. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the semiconductor device comprises a substrate.
44. The apparatus of claim 40 wherein the semiconductor device comprises a semiconductor die or package mounted to a substrate.
45. A method of powering a semiconductor device having power input terminals, the method comprising: providing a power conversion module having conversion circuitry arranged in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output terminals, the conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals of the plurality of conversion cells at a second lower voltage, the converter output terminals being arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the converter output terminals; providing an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first surface of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a second surface in a second pattern configured to align with the power input terminals of the semiconductor device, the second pattern having a second spacing between x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; providing a plurality of conductive pillars for electrically connecting the converter output terminals with respective x-input terminals; assembling the power conversion module to the interconnection module with each converter output terminal aligned with and electrically connected to a respective x-input terminal by a respective one of the conductive pillars; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals arranged in the first pattern and the power input terminals of the semiconductor device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked to form a module sandwich including the power conversion module in a first layer, the conductive pillars connecting the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals in a second layer, and the interconnection module in a third layer; and wherein the x-output terminals are arranged with alternating polarities to reduce interconnection inductance.
46. The method of claim 44 further comprising arranging the x-output terminals with alternating polarities.
47. The method of claim 45 further comprising arranging the converter output terminals with alternating polarities.
48. The method of claim 45, further comprising assembling the sandwich structure to a substrate with the x-output terminals aligned with and electrically connected to respective terminals on a surface of the substrate, the substrate including a semiconductor device electrically connected to receive power from the power conversion module; and further comprising conducting heat vertically from the converter module through the sandwich structure and out the top of the substrate.
49. An apparatus comprising: a semiconductor device, including at least one semiconductor die having a plurality of die power input terminals arranged on a surface of the die and having edges of the semiconductor die defining a die footprint, the semiconductor device having power input terminals arranged within the footprint of the die; a power conversion module having switching power conversion circuitry arranged in a multi-cell structure having a plurality of conversion cells, each conversion cell including one or more converter output terminals, the conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals of the plurality of conversion cells at a second lower voltage, the converter output terminals being arranged in a first pattern having a first spacing between the converter output terminals; and an interconnection module having x-input terminals arranged on a first surface of the interconnection module in a pattern configured to align with the first pattern of converter output terminals, and x-output terminals arranged on a second surface in a second pattern with alternating polarities configured to align with the power input terminals of the semiconductor device, the second pattern having a second spacing between x-output terminals, the second spacing being different than the first spacing, the x-input terminals being electrically connected to the x-output terminals; the converter output terminals of the power conversion module being mated with and electrically connected to respective x-input terminals of the interconnection module; wherein the interconnection module is configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals arranged in the first pattern and the power input terminals of the semiconductor device arranged in the second pattern; wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are stacked with the power conversion module located at a first level, electrical connections between the converter output terminals and the x-input terminals at a second level, and the interconnection module at a third level.
50. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein the semiconductor device comprises a wafer.
51. The apparatus of claim 50 wherein the wafer comprises a multiplicity of un-singulated dice on the wafer.
52. The apparatus of claim 49 wherein the semiconductor device further comprises a substrate, and the semiconductor die is mounted to the substrate within the die footprint.
53. An apparatus for delivering power vertically to a semiconductor die, the die having a plurality of semiconductor power input terminals arranged on a surface of the semiconductor die and having edges of the semiconductor die defining a die footprint, the apparatus comprising: switching power conversion circuitry arranged on a first substrate having a plurality of switching power conversion cells and a plurality of converter output terminals, the switching power conversion circuitry being configured to convert power received at a first voltage for delivery via the converter output terminals at a second lower voltage; translation interconnections including X-input terminals configured and arranged to align with and electrically connect to the converter output terminals, a plurality of X-output terminals configured and arranged with alternating polarities to align with respective power input terminals of the semiconductor die, and a plurality of vertical conductors to make electrical connections to the X-output terminals; a capacitive array arranged between the power conversion circuitry and the semiconductor die and electrically connected to the translation interconnections to provide energy storage; wherein the translation interconnections are configured to provide electrical and mechanical translation between the converter output terminals and the power input terminals of the semiconductor die; wherein the switching power conversion circuitry, the translation interconnections, and the capacitive array, are each configured and arranged within a respective footprint configured to occupy substantially all of the die footprint, and are together configured and arranged to form a vertical stack configured to occupy substantially all of the die footprint.
54. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein the power conversion circuitry further comprises converter input terminals arranged on a first surface of the first substrate.
55. The apparatus of claim 53, further comprising the semiconductor die and wherein the semiconductor die is mounted to the stack with the power input terminals of the semiconductor die aligned with and electrically connected to the X-output terminals.
56. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein the power flows vertically through the stack essentially within the die footprint.
57. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein the capacitive array comprises a plurality of discrete capacitors arranged to occupy spaces between the X-input terminals.
58. The apparatus of claim 55 wherein the X-output terminals use a spacing between terminals of 1mm or less.
59. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein the capacitive array comprises a plurality of discrete capacitors arranged to occupy spaces between the X-input terminals.
60. The apparatus of claim 59 wherein the capacitors are arranged on a second substrate.
61. The apparatus of claim 60 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a fixed-ratio conversion topology.
62. The apparatus of claim 60 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a multi-phase buck conversion topology.
63. The apparatus of claim 60 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a switched capacitor conversion topology.
64. The apparatus of claim 53 wherein the power conversion circuitry further comprises converter input terminals arranged along an edge of a surface of the first substrate.
65. The apparatus of claim 53 further comprising one or more conductive terminals passing through the vertical stack configured to carry signals through the vertical stack.
66. The apparatus of claim 60 further comprising one or more conductive terminals passing through the vertical stack configured to carry signals through the vertical stack.
67. A vertical power delivery apparatus for a semiconductor die, the semiconductor die having a plurality of semiconductor power input terminals arranged on a surface of the semiconductor die and having edges of the semiconductor die defining a die footprint; the vertical power delivery apparatus comprising in a vertical stack configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint, the vertical stack comprising: (a) point-of-load ("POL") switching power conversion circuitry (i) arranged on a substrate within a conversion footprint, (ii) including a plurality of switching power conversion cells connected in parallel to convert power from an input at an input voltage for delivery to the semiconductor power input terminals at a die voltage, (iii) the input voltage being at least five times higher than the die voltage, and (iv) the conversion footprint being configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint; (b) interdigitated output terminals (i) electrically connected to receive power from the switching power conversion cells, (ii) configured within a terminal footprint to match the plurality of semiconductor power input terminals, (iii) the terminal footprint being configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint; and (c) a capacitive array (i) arranged between the power conversion circuitry and the semiconductor die, (ii) within a filter footprint configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint and (iii) electrically connected to the interdigitated output terminals.
68. A vertical power delivery apparatus for a semiconductor die, the semiconductor die having a plurality of semiconductor power input terminals arranged on a surface of the semiconductor die and having edges of the semiconductor die defining a die footprint; the vertical power delivery apparatus comprising in a vertical stack configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint, the vertical stack comprising: (a) point-of-load ("POL") switching power conversion circuitry (i) arranged on a substrate within a conversion footprint, (ii) including a plurality of switching power conversion cells connected in parallel to convert power from an input at an input voltage to the semiconductor power input terminals at a die voltage, (iii) the input voltage being at least five times higher than the die voltage, (iv) the conversion footprint being configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint; (b) interdigitated output terminals (i) electrically connected to receive power from the switching power conversion cells, (ii) configured within a terminal footprint to match the plurality of semiconductor power input terminals, (iii) the terminal footprint being configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint; (c) a capacitive array (i) arranged between the power conversion circuitry and the semiconductor die, (ii) within a filter footprint configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint, and (iii) electrically connected to the interdigitated output terminals; and (d) a plurality of vertical conductors arranged within the die footprint to connect the interdigitated output terminals to the switching power conversion cells.
69. The vertical power delivery apparatus of claim 68 wherein the POL switching power conversion circuitry further comprises a plurality of power conversion output terminals including a space between adjacent ones of the power conversion output terminals and wherein the interdigitated output terminals are electrically connected to the plurality of the power conversion output terminals by the vertical conductors.
70. The vertical power delivery apparatus of claim 69 wherein multiple ones of the plurality of vertical conductors are electrically connected together by lateral electrical connections within the die footprint.
71. The vertical power delivery apparatus of claim 70 wherein the power conversion output terminals are connected to the vertical conductors by the lateral electrical connections.
72. The vertical power delivery apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the interdigitated output terminals further comprise a space of one millimeter or less between adjacent ones of the interdigitated output terminals.
73. The vertical power delivery apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the POL switching power conversion circuitry further comprises a plurality of power conversion output terminals including a space between adjacent ones of the power conversion output terminals and wherein the capacitive array comprises a plurality of discrete capacitors arranged in the spaces between the power conversion output terminals.
74. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a plurality of power switches, an inductance, a fixed-ratio conversion topology, and is configured to use a current flowing in the inductance to charge and discharge capacitances in the switching power conversion circuitry and reduce a voltage across the one or more power switches prior to turn ON or turn OFF of the one or more of the power switches.
75. The apparatus of claim 74 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a switched capacitor conversion topology.
76. The apparatus of claim 74 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry further comprises a transformer, and wherein power is converted via the transformer from an input at an input voltage to the semiconductor power input terminals.
77. The apparatus of claim 74 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a multi-phase buck conversion topology.
78. The apparatus of claim 75 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a multi-phase buck conversion topology.
79. The apparatus of claim 75 wherein the interdigitated output terminals, the plurality of semiconductor power input terminals, and the vertical power connections are configured to provide the shortest electrical path between the semiconductor die and the switching power conversion circuitry.
80. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a plurality of power switches and an inductance and is configured to use a current flowing in the inductance to charge and discharge capacitances in the switching power conversion circuitry and reduce a current through one or more one of the power switches prior to turn ON or turn OFF of the one or more of the power switches.
81. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 further comprising first stage switching power conversion circuitry for converting power from a first stage input at a first stage input voltage for delivery to the input of the POL switching power conversion circuitry; wherein the first stage switching power conversion circuitry and the POL switching power conversion circuitry comprise a fixed-ratio conversion topology and a regulating topology.
82. The apparatus of claim 81 wherein the first stage switching power conversion circuitry comprises a regulating topology.
83. The apparatus of claim 81 wherein the POL switching power conversion circuitry comprises a regulating topology.
84. The apparatus of claim 68 wherein the vertical conductors are arranged to align with the interdigitated output terminals.
85. The apparatus of claim 84 wherein the interdigitated output terminals and the vertical conductors occupy the entire die footprint.
86. The apparatus of claim 85 wherein the interdigitated output terminals and the vertical conductors extend beyond the die footprint in at least one lateral direction.
87. The apparatus of claim 85 wherein the interdigitated output terminals and the vertical conductors extends beyond the die footprint in at least two lateral directions.
88. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein at least a portion of the stack is encapsulated.
89. The apparatus of claim 88 wherein the POL switching power conversion circuitry is encapsulated.
90. The apparatus of claim 84 wherein the matrix of vertical conductors are formed in a second substrate and the interdigitated output terminals are formed on a surface of the second substrate.
91. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the stack is provided as a self-contained module adapted to be installed as a unit.
92. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the capacitive array comprises a multiplicity of discrete capacitors.
93. The apparatus of claim 67 or 68 wherein the input of the POL switching power conversion circuitry further comprises terminals on a surface of the substrate.
94. The apparatus of claim 67 wherein the matrix of interdigitated output terminals further comprise conductors electrically connecting the interdigitated output terminals to the switching power conversion circuitry, the conductors being substantially arranged to occupy the die footprint.
95. The apparatus of claim 67 wherein the conductors are arranged in a matrix with alternating polarities to align with the interdigitated output terminals.
96. The apparatus of claim 95 wherein the matrix of interdigitated output terminals and the matrix of conductors occupy the entire die footprint.
97. The apparatus of claim 96 wherein the matrix of interdigitated output terminals and the matrix of conductors extend beyond the die footprint in at least one lateral direction.
98. The apparatus of claim 96 wherein the matrix of interdigitated output terminals and the matrix of conductors extend beyond the die footprint in at least two lateral directions.
99. The apparatus of claim 95 wherein the matrix of conductors are formed in a second substrate and the interdigitated output terminals are formed on a surface of the second substrate.
100. The apparatus of claim 32, 49, 50, or 51, further comprising a capacitive array vertically arranged between the power conversion module and the semiconductor device, within a filter footprint configured to occupy, in whole or in part, the die footprint, and electrically connected to the X-output terminals.
101. The apparatus of claim 100 wherein the capacitive array comprises a plurality of discrete capacitors arranged between the x-input terminals.
102. The apparatus of claim 100 wherein the interconnection module further comprises a second substrate, the x-output terminals are formed on a surface of the second substrate, and further comprising a matrix of vertical conductors formed in the second substrate within the die footprint.
103. The apparatus of claim 102 wherein the power conversion module and the interconnection module are provided stacked together as a self-contained module adapted to be installed as a unit.
104. The apparatus of claim 101 further comprising first stage switching power conversion circuitry for converting power from a first stage input at a first stage input voltage for delivery to the input of the power conversion module; wherein the first stage switching power conversion circuitry and the power conversion module comprise a fixed-ratio conversion topology and a regulating topology.
105. The apparatus of claim 104 wherein the first stage switching power conversion circuitry comprises a regulating topology.
106. The apparatus of claim 104 wherein the power conversion module comprises a regulating topology.
107. The apparatus of claim 30, 32, 33, 49, 50, or 51 wherein the second spacing between x-output terminals is one millimeter or less.
108. The apparatus of claim 30, 32, 33, 49, 50, or 51 wherein the power conversion circuitry comprises a plurality of power switches, an inductance, a fixed-ratio conversion topology, and is configured to use a current flowing in the inductance to charge and discharge capacitances in the switching power conversion circuitry and reduce a voltage across the one or more power switches prior to turn ON or turn OFF of the one or more of the power switches.
109. The apparatus of claim 108 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a switched capacitor conversion topology.
110. The apparatus of claim 108 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry further comprises a transformer, and wherein power is converted power from an input at an input voltage to the semiconductor power input terminals.
111. The apparatus of claim 30, 32, 33, 49, 50, or 51 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a multi-phase buck conversion topology.
112. The apparatus of claim 32, 49, 50, or 51 wherein the x-output terminals are electrically connected to the x-input terminals by vertical power conductors arranged with the die footprint.
113. The apparatus of claim 30, 32, 33, 49, 50, or 51 wherein the switching power conversion circuitry comprises a plurality of power switches and an inductance and is configured to use a current flowing in the inductance to charge and discharge capacitances in the switching power conversion circuitry and reduce a current through one or more one of the power switches prior to turn ON or turn OFF of the one or more of the power switches.
</claims>
</document>
