<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F21/32,G06F21/46,G06F21/57,G06N20/00,G06N20/10,G06N3/02,G06N5/00,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
GUPTA, SANDEEP K. S.
BANERJEE AYAN
OSKOOYEE, SEYED KOOSHA SADEGHI
ESFAHANI, MOHAMMAD JAVAD SOHANKAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, SANDEEP K. S.
BANERJEE AYAN
OSKOOYEE, SEYED KOOSHA SADEGHI
ESFAHANI, MOHAMMAD JAVAD SOHANKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63790119
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Framework for security strength and performance analysis of machine learning based biometric systems
</title>

<abstract>
A framework for measuring the security strength of bio-metric security systems against spoofing attacks considering the adversary's knowledge about the system is disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for security optimization of a machine-learning based biometric security system (BSS), the method comprising: acquiring a dataset comprising a plurality of raw biometric signals corresponding to one or more subjects; performing pre-processing on the raw biometric signals to generate conditioned biometric signals; performing feature extraction on the conditioned biometric signals using a given feature extraction method to extract a plurality of feature vectors corresponding to the one or more subjects; training a classifier of the given machine-learning based BSS to classify given ones of the plurality of feature vectors into a corresponding subject class, wherein the conditioned biometric signals further include an indication of the correct corresponding subject class for each of the plurality of feature vectors; and calculating, based at least in part on the trained classifier, a security strength of the given machine-learning based BSS, the calculating comprising determining a guessing entropy of the given machine-learning based BSS against an adversarial attack.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein training the classifier further comprises generating, for each given subject of the one or more subjects, a training data set by dividing the plurality of feature vectors into a training subject class and a training system class, wherein: the training subject class comprises the feature vectors associated with the given subject; and the training system class comprises the remaining feature vectors not associated with the given subject.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the security strength comprises: calculating a normal response volume comprising the set of acceptable input feature vectors the trained classifier would classify into the correct corresponding subject class; calculating a suspicion response volume comprising the set of input feature vectors the trained classifier would not classify into the correct corresponding subject class; calculating a system response volume as the combination of the normal response volume and the suspicion response volume; and calculating the guessing entropy as the base two logarithm of the system response volume divided by the normal response volume.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the security strength comprises performing a security strength calculation trial of the machine-learning based BSS with respect to a given subject of the one or more subjects by: generating, from an interval between a minimum feature bound of the feature vectors to a maximum feature bound of the feature vectors, one or more random values to form a test feature vector; inputting the test feature vector into a simulated classifier corresponding to the trained classifier; in response to the simulated classifier classifying the test feature vector into a normal response class, calculating the guessing entropy as the number of iterations required for the simulated classifier to classify the test feature vector into the normal response class; and in response to the simulated classifier classifying the test feature vector into a suspicion response class: generating an additional test feature vector; inputting the additional test feature vector into the simulated classifier; and repeating the steps above.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: performing a security strength calculation trial of the machine-learning based BSS with respect to each given subject of the one or more subjects; and calculating the guessing entropy as the mean of the guessing entropy calculated for each given subject of the one or more subjects.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising performing a fitness check on the test feature vector in order to detect a replay attack, the fitness check comprising an NRMSD (Normalized Root Mean Square Deviation) between the test feature vector and each one of the extracted plurality of feature vectors.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine-learning based BSS comprises one or more of: a neural network machine learning algorithm; a Naïve Bayes Classifier (NBC); and a Support Vector Machine (SVM).
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the raw biometric signals comprise EEG (electroencephalogram) data and the BSS is an ESS (EEG-based Security System).
9. The method of claim 1, wherein pre-processing comprises applying one or more of: a zero-mean algorithm, a unit-variance algorithm, and a finite element response (FIR) filter algorithm.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the given feature extraction method comprises one or more of: a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT); a Discrete Wavelet Transform (DFT); and an Auto-Regression (AR) algorithm.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the adversarial attack is one or more of: a spoofing attack comprising a spoofed feature vector; and a brute-force attack comprising a test feature vector having one or more altered or randomly generated values.
12. The method of claim 3, wherein the adversarial attack is a successful spoofing attack comprising a spoofed feature vector, wherein the spoofed feature vector: lies within the system response volume; and does not lie within the volume corresponding to a hypersphere having a pre-defined radius centered about each feature vector.
13. A security optimization apparatus for a machine-learning based biometric security system (BSS), the apparatus comprising: a data acquisition system, the data acquisition system configured to acquire a dataset comprising a plurality of raw biometric signals corresponding to one or more subjects; a data pre-processing system, the data pre-processing system configured to perform pre-processing on the raw biometric signals to generate conditioned biometric signals; a feature extractor, the feature extractor consisting of a given feature extraction method for extracting from the conditioned biometric signals a plurality of feature vectors corresponding to the one or more subjects; a classifier training system, the classifier training system training a classifier of the given machine-learning based BSS to classify given ones of the plurality of feature vectors into a corresponding subject class, wherein the conditioned biometric signals further include an indication of the correct corresponding subject class for each of the plurality of feature vectors; and a security strength analysis system, the security strength analysis system configured to calculate, based at least in part on the trained classifier, a security strength of the given machine-learning based BSS, the calculating comprising determining a guessing entropy of the given machine-learning based BSS against an adversarial attack.
14. The security optimization apparatus of claim 13, wherein the classifier training system generates, for each given subject of the one or more subjects, a training data set by dividing the plurality of feature vectors into a training subject class and a training system class, wherein: the training subject class comprises the feature vectors associated with the given subject; and the training system class comprises the remaining feature vectors not associated with the given subject.
15. The security optimization apparatus of claim 13, wherein the security strength analysis system is configured to: calculate a normal response volume comprising the set of acceptable input feature vectors the trained classifier would classify into the correct corresponding subject class; calculate a suspicion response volume comprising the set of input feature vectors the trained classifier would not classify into the correct corresponding subject class; calculate a system response volume as the combination of the normal response volume and the suspicion response volume; and calculate the guessing entropy as the base two logarithm of the system response volume divided by the normal response volume.
16. The security optimization apparatus of claim 13, wherein the security strength analysis system performs a security strength calculation trial of the machine-learning based BSS with respect to a given subject of the one or more subjects by: generating, from an interval between a minimum feature bound of the feature vectors to a maximum feature bound of the feature vectors, one or more random values to form a test feature vector; inputting the test feature vector into a simulated classifier corresponding to the trained classifier; in response to the simulated classifier classifying the test feature vector into a normal response class, calculating the guessing entropy as the number of iterations required for the simulated classifier to classify the test feature vector into the normal response class; and in response to the simulated classifier classifying the test feature vector into a suspicion response class: generating an additional test feature vector; inputting the additional test feature vector into the simulated classifier; and repeating the steps above.
17. The security optimization apparatus of claim 16, wherein the security strength analysis system performs a security strength calculation trial of the machine-learning based BSS with respect to each given subject of the one or more subjects; and calculates the guessing entropy as the mean of the guessing entropy calculated for each given subject of the one or more subjects.
18. The security optimization apparatus of claim 16, wherein the security strength analysis system performs a fitness check on the test feature vector in order to detect a replay attack, the fitness check comprising an NRMSD (Normalized Root Mean Square Deviation) between the test feature vector and each one of the extracted plurality of feature vectors.
19. The security optimization apparatus of claim 13, wherein the machine-learning based BSS comprises one or more of: a neural network machine learning algorithm; a Naïve Bayes Classifier (NBC); and a Support Vector Machine (SVM).
20. The security optimization apparatus of claim 13, wherein the feature extractor comprises one or more of: a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT), a Discrete Wavelet Transform (DFT), and an Auto-Regression (AR) algorithm, as the given feature extraction method.
</claims>
</document>
