<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9538,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W60/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRATT, JAMES
ZAVESKY, ERIC
DECUIR, JASON
GRATZ, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68840509
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data and context based role membership system
</title>

<abstract>
A data and context based role management system comprising: a community, the community including at least one data source having plural roles stored therein, the plural roles including an identity including at least one of a credential, a function, a capability, and a historic response data; a discovery module configured to identify an alert associated with an event requiring a response, the discovery module being further configured to search the community for a responder based on the event, wherein the discovery module is configured to compare a criteria based on the event to the identity associated with each of the plural roles to identify the responder; and when the responder is identified, the community promotes the responder to transform at least one device of the responder to provide at least access to data associated with the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network device comprising: a processor, an input/output device coupled to the processor, and a memory coupled with the processor, the memory comprising executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to effectuate data and context based role management operations comprising: defining a community within a network, the community including at least one data source having plural roles stored therein, the plural roles including an identity including at least one of a credential, a function, a capability, and a historic response data; and when an alert indicating an event requiring a response is detected by a discovery module: obtaining cloud data from a device associated with the event; searching the community to identify a responder from the plural roles; sending an opt-in signal to a device associated with the responder; receiving a confirmation from the responder confirming an ability to respond to the event; and promoting the responder to provide access to the cloud data, and dispatching the responder to the event.
2. The network device of claim 1, wherein the step of promoting includes providing priority data service to the responder.
3. The network device of claim 1, wherein the step of promoting includes providing access to at least one of a virtual network function, an internet of things device, a data source, and a location data.
4. The network device of claim 1, wherein the searching the community to identify a responder from the plural roles comprises identifying the responder based on a criteria including at least one of a credential, a proximity to the event, and an experience with similar events.
5. The network device of claim 4, wherein each role within the community includes a blockchain ledger.
6. The network device of claim 1, wherein the event is a medical emergency, and wherein the community is a first responder community.
7. The network device of claim 1, wherein the event requires a technician.
8. The network device of claim 1 further comprising while dispatching the responder, iteratively searching for at least one second responder and dispatching the at least one second responder, wherein iteratively searching operation for at least one second responder and dispatching the at least one second responder comprises at least one of searching for a better match to a criteria, revising the criteria as data is received from the event using a machine learning module and an artificial intelligence module connected to the community.
9. The network device of claim 8 further comprising the step of de-promoting the responder when the community receives a relief signal indicating that the event is resolved or a second responder has relieved the responder.
10. A method comprising: defining a community within a network, the community including plural roles; and when an alert indicating an event requiring a response is detected by a discovery module, obtaining cloud data from a device associated with the event, searching the community to identify a responder from the plural roles, sending an opt-in signal to a device associated with the responder, receiving a confirmation from the responder confirming an ability to respond to the event, and promoting the responder to provide access to the cloud data, and dispatching the responder to the event.
11. A data and context-based role management system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled with the one or more processors, the memory comprising executable instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the processor to effectuate operations comprising: defining a community within a network, the community including at least one data source having plural roles stored therein, the plural roles including an identity including at least one of a credential, a function, a capability, and a historic response data; and when an alert indicating an event requiring a response is detected by a discovery module: obtaining cloud data from a device associated with the event; searching the community to identify a responder from the plural roles; sending an opt-in signal to a device associated with the responder; receiving a confirmation from the responder confirming an ability to respond to the event; and promoting the responder to provide access to the cloud data, and dispatching the responder to the event.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the data associated with the event includes at least one data source from a respondee device associated with the event.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the community further comprises an artificial Intelligence instantiated as a virtual network function or network device, wherein the discovery module communicates data from the event to the artificial intelligence, and wherein the artificial intelligence is configured to refine criteria based on the data from the event.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the community further comprises a machine learning module instantiated as a virtual network function or network device, the machine learning module communicating with the artificial intelligence to further refine the criteria based on the data from the event.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the community is configured to de-promote the responder after a relief signal is received from the event.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the community is configured to de-promote the responder after a selected time period following receipt of the relief signal.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the community is configured to prompt the responder for a report of the event during the selected time period.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the community logs the promotion of the responder in a blockchain ledger.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the community updates the identity of the responder in a blockchain ledger after promotion.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the community provides device priority to the responder with the promotion.
</claims>
</document>
