<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/11,B81B7/00,G08C19/22,G16H10/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARROLL, WILLIAM JOSEPH
MOLINSKY, BRADLEY DEAN
DUNST, MICHAEL J.
TIPTON, THOMAS ANDREW
BATTAGLINI, JOSEPH S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58708746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Microelectromechanical accelerometer based sensor system
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to apparatus and systems for providing home and building security and condition monitoring. More particularly, the invention relates to a plurality of devices, including intelligent, multi-sensing, network-connected devices, that communicate dynamically with each other and a remote server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions, that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a Micro-Electro-Mechanical-System ("MEMS") based method for detecting and analyzing activity levels, the method comprising: collecting, by a wearable MEMS sensor, user activity data of a user wearing the MEMS sensor; wirelessly transmitting, from a transceiver of the wearable MEMS sensor to a mobile electronic device, the collected user activity data, wherein the mobile electronic device is adapted to display the user activity data; forwarding, from the mobile electronic device to a data adapter of a remote server system device via a wireless router, the collected user activity data; analyzing, by the remote server system device, the user activity data to determine an associated activity classification, each activity classification corresponding to a pre-determined condition and an associated condition benefit; and automatically generating, by a computer processor of the remote server system device, an exception condition for an investigator upon detection of a potential fraudulent condition based on a comparison of the sensed user activity data with a historical profile of that particular user's past activities and a predictive model.
2. The medium of claim 1, wherein the wearable MEMS sensor includes a nonvolatile memory having stored representations of instructions to electronically correlate the user activity data with a reference scale of activity levels.
3. The medium of claim 1, wherein the mobile electronic device includes an accelerometer and a memory having stored instructions, and a processor circuit.
4. The medium of claim 1, wherein the wearable MEMS sensor comprises at least a plurality of accelerometers capturing representations of actual user activity that are indicative of the potential fraudulent condition related to at least one of a short term disability or a long term disability.
5. The medium of claim 1, wherein the MEMS sensor generates an output signal indicative of an activity level that corresponds to a certain user condition.
6. The medium of claim 5, wherein location data is used to infer the activity level.
7. The medium of claim 6, wherein the remote server system device outputs an electronic communication to the user in the event the user condition does not correspond to the detected activity level.
8. The medium of claim 1, where the mobile electronic device electronically correlates the user activity levels with a predetermined classification of allowable activity levels, the user being provided a differential discount.
9. The medium of claim 1, wherein the mobile electronic device includes a processor circuit and a volatile memory and the processor circuit is operable to store into the volatile memory a time-window of data responsive to activity of the user, wherein the activity may qualify the user for a benefit.
10. The medium of claim 9, wherein the benefit is a pricing adjustment.
11. The medium of claim 1, wherein the MEMS sensor includes a processor and a memory, wherein and the processor is configured to generate an activity classification of the user activity.
12. The medium of claim 1, wherein the activity classification qualifies the user for a pricing adjustment.
13. The medium of claim 1, wherein the predictive model is associated with at least one of: (i) a neural network, (ii) a Bayesian network, (iii) a hidden Markov model, (iv) an expert system, (v) a decision tree, (vi) a collection of decision trees, and (vii) a support vector machine.
14. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions, that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a Micro-Electro-Mechanical-System ("MEMS") based method for detecting and analyzing activity levels, the method comprising: measuring, by at least one wearable MEMS sensor configured within a mobile electronic device, user activity data, the MEM sensor including a wireless communication transceiver internal to the MEMS sensor for transmitting the user activity data; receiving, by a remote server system device via a communications network, the user activity data; analyzing, by the remote server system device, the user activity data to determine an associated activity classification associated with the user activity data, each activity classification corresponding to a predetermined condition and an associated condition benefit; automatically generating, by the remote server system device, an exception condition for an investigator upon detection of a potential fraudulent condition based on a comparison of the sensed user activity data with a historical profile of that particular user's past activities and a predictive model; and determining, based on the determined activity classification, a content of one or more electronic communications transmitted by the remote server system device to a user device.
15. The medium of claim 14, wherein the electronic communication is configured for display on the mobile electronic device.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the determined activity classification is based on historical analysis of activity levels associated with a variety of conditions.
17. The medium of claim 16, wherein the conditions relate to a sedentary or an active condition that are correlated with a compliant and a non-compliant classification.
18. The medium of claim 14, wherein the wearable MEMS sensor includes a nonvolatile memory having stored representations of instructions to electronically correlate the user activity data with a reference scale of activity levels.
19. The medium of claim 14, wherein the mobile electronic device includes an accelerometer and a memory having stored instructions, and a processor circuit.
20. The medium of claim 14, wherein the wearable MEMS sensor comprises at least a plurality of accelerometers capturing representations of actual user activity that are indicative of the potential fraudulent condition related to at least one of a short term disability or a long term disability.
21. The medium of claim 14, wherein the MEMS sensor generates an output signal indicative of an activity level that corresponds to a certain user condition.
22. The medium of claim 21, wherein location data is used to infer the activity level.
</claims>
</document>
