<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/14,G06F3/16,G06N5/04,G10L15/00,G10L15/01,G10L15/08,G10L15/18,G10L15/183,G10L15/22,G10L15/30,G10L17/00,G10L25/60,G10L25/63,H04W76/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
ROZEN, PIOTR
BOCKLET, TOBIAS
GEORGES, MUNIR
NOWICKI, JAKUB
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROZEN, PIOTR
BOCKLET, TOBIAS
GEORGES, MUNIR
NOWICKI, JAKUB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65897527
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques for client-side speech domain detection using gyroscopic data and a system using the same
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for client-side analysis of audio samples to identify one or more characteristics associated with captured audio. The client-side analysis may then allow a user device, e.g., a smart phone, laptop computer, in-car infotainment system, and so on, to provide the one or more identified characteristics as configuration data to a voice recognition service at or shortly after connection with the same. In turn, the voice recognition service may load one or more recognition components, e.g., language models and/or application modules/engines, based on the received configuration data. Thus, latency may be reduced based on the voice recognition engine having "hints" that allow components to be loaded without necessarily having to process audio samples first. The reduction of latency may reduce processing time relative to other approaches to voice recognitions systems that exclusively perform server-side context recognition/classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a memory; a first processor coupled to the memory, wherein the first processor includes a low power mode, wherein while in the low power mode the first processor being configured to: receive a plurality of audio samples; identify at least one context characteristic associated with the received plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes linguistic characteristics associated with the received plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes a keyword or key phrase; and a second processor to remotely host a voice recognition engine to analyze speech, and in response to establishing communication with the first processor, receive a session initialization message by the voice recognition engine, wherein the session initialization message includes the at least one context characteristic, wherein the session initialization message to cause the voice recognition engine to load one or more models into a memory based at least in part on the at least one identified context characteristic, wherein the voice recognition engine analyzes speech from at least part of the plurality of audio samples with the one or more models; Wherein the session initialization message includes sensor data from a gyroscope.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising one or more sensors, the one or more sensors including at least one or more of a global positioning system (GPS) sensor, an accelerometer, and/or a gyroscope.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the session initialization message includes sensor data from the one or more sensors.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one identified context characteristic comprises at least one of a signal quality indicator, a speaker identity, a speaker gender, a speaker mood, a language identifier, and/or a domain classification.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the first processor is further configured to send the session initialization message to the voice recognition engine prior to sending the received plurality of audio samples to the voice recognition engine.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the first processor is further configured to receive a session established message, and in response to receiving the session established message, send the received plurality of audio samples to the voice recognition engine, and wherein the session established message indicates that the voice recognition engine has loaded one or more speech recognition components based at least in part on the at least one identified context characteristic.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the first processor establishes the connection with the voice recognition engine based on detecting a wakeup voice command spoken by a user.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the second processor is further configured to instantiate a context recognition engine (CRE), the CRE including a plurality of processing stages for context recognition, and wherein the second processor is further configured to identify the one or more context characteristics based on the CRE.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the first processor is further configured to receive a result message from the voice recognition engine, and in response to receiving the result message, perform one or more functions based on the received result message.
10. A plurality of networked devices implemented as the device of claim 1.
11. A computer-implemented method for performing client-side domain detection on a plurality of audio samples, the method comprising: receiving, with a first processor, a plurality of audio samples, wherein the first processor includes a low power mode, wherein receiving the plurality of audio samples includes receiving the plurality of audio samples while the first processor operates in the low power mode; identifying, with the first processor, at least one context characteristic associated with the plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes linguistic characteristics associated with the received plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes a keyword or a key phrase; and hosting, with a second processor that is remotely coupled to the first processor, a voice recognition engine to analyze speech, and in response to establishing a connection with first processor, receiving a session initiation message, the session initiation message including at least one configuration parameter based on the at least one identified context characteristic and/or the at least one context characteristic, and wherein the session initiation message is configured to cause the voice recognition engine to load one or more recognition components, wherein the voice recognition engine analyzes speech from at least part of the plurality of audio samples with the one or more recognition components; Wherein the session initialization message includes sensor data from a gyroscope.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, by the first processor, a session established message from the voice recognition engine; and in response to receiving the session established message, sending by the first processor the received plurality of audio samples to the voice recognition engine.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the at least one identified context characteristic comprises at least one of a signal quality indicator, a speaker identity, a language identifier, and/or a domain classification.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising detecting, by the first processor, a user-input event, and wherein establishing the connection with the voice recognition engine is based on the detected user-input event.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising receiving, by the first processor, a result message from the voice recognition engine, and in response to receiving the result message, performing one or more functions based on the received message.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having a plurality of instructions encoded thereon that when executed by at least one processor cause a process to be carried out, the process being configured to: receive, with a first processor, a plurality of audio samples, wherein the first processor includes a low power mode, wherein receive the plurality of audio samples includes receive the plurality of audio samples while the first processor operates in the low power mode; identify, with the first processor, at least one context characteristic associated with the plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes linguistic characteristics associated with the received plurality of audio samples, wherein the at least one context characteristic includes a keyword or a key phrase; and host, with a second processor that is remotely coupled to the first processor, a voice recognition engine to analyze speech, and in response to establishing a connection with first processor, receive a session initiation message, the session initiation message including at least one configuration parameter based on the at least one identified context characteristic and/or the at least one context characteristic, and wherein the session initiation message is configured to cause the voice recognition engine to load one or more recognition components, wherein the voice recognition engine analyzes speech from at least part of the plurality of audio samples with the one or more recognition components; Wherein the session initialization message includes sensor data from a gyroscope.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the process is further configured to: receive a session established message from the voice recognition engine; and in response to receiving the session established message, send the received plurality of audio samples to the voice recognition engine.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the at least one identified context characteristic comprises at least one of a signal quality indicator, a speaker identity, a language identifier, and/or a domain classification.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the process is further configured to receive a result message from the voice recognition engine, and in response to receiving the result message, performing one or more functions based on the received message.
</claims>
</document>
