<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GYRFALCON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DONG, JASON ZENG
DONG, PATRICK ZENG
SUN, BAOHUA
YANG LIN
YOUNG, CHARLES JIN
ZHANG, YEQUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68097272
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for determining an artificial intelligence model in a decentralized network
</title>

<abstract>
A system may include a decentralized communication network and multiple processing devices on the network. Each processing device may have an artificial intelligence (AI) chip, the device may be configured to generate an AI model, determine the performance value of the AI model on the AI chip, receive a chain from the network where the chain contains a performance measure. If the performance value of the AI model is better than the performance measure, then the processing device may broadcast the AI model to the network for verification. If the AI model is verified by the network, the device may update the chain with the performance value so that the chain can be shared by the multiple processing devices on the network. Any processing device on the network may also verify an AI model broadcasted by any other device. Methods for generating the AI model are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system comprising: a first processing device coupled to a first artificial intelligence (AI) chip, the first processing device contains programming instructions that, when executed, will cause the first processing device to: (i) access a dataset; (ii) generate an artificial intelligence (AI) model; (iii) load the AI model into the first AI chip to generate a first performance value based on the dataset; (iv) receive a chain from a communication network, the chain comprising a performance measure; (v) determine whether the first performance value has exceeded the performance measure; and (vi) if the first performance value has exceeded the performance measure: create a block comprising the AI model and the first performance value; transmit the block and a verification request to the communication network to verify the block; and if verification of the block succeeds, update the chain based on the first performance value so that the chain is available to one or more of the plurality of processing devices on the communication network; and a second processing device coupled to a second AI chip, the second processing device contains programming instructions that, when executed, will cause the second processing device to: receive the chain from the communication network, the chain comprising the performance measure; receive from the communication network the block and the verification request; respond to the verification request from the first processing device by: loading the AI model into the second AI chip to generate a second performance value based on the dataset; determining whether the second performance value has exceeded the performance measure; and if the second performance value has exceeded the performance measure, responding to the verification request via the communication network with a verification success.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the AI model is a convolutional neural network comprising a plurality of weights for loading into the first and second AI chips.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein programming instructions for verifying the block comprise programming instructions that, when executed, will cause a processing device on the communication network to: (vii) receive responses from the second processing device or one or more additional processing devices responding to the verification request; and (viii) based on the received responses, determine that the verification of the block is successful if at least a percentage of the total number of processing devices receiving the verification request has responded with a verification success.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein programming instructions for verifying the block also contain programming instructions that will: repeat steps (vii)-(viii) within a time period; and determine that the verification of the block fails if not more than the percentage of the total number of processing devices receiving the verification request has responded with a verification success within the time period.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein programming instructions for receiving the chain that comprises the performance measure are configured to cause the second processing device to receive the performance measure at a time interval.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first processing device comprises additional programming instructions configured to cause the first processing device to: if verification of the block is successful, receive an award if no chain that comprises a performance value that is better than the first performance value is received on the communication network within a time period.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein programming instructions for generating the AI model comprise additional programming instructions configured to cause the first processing device to convert a floating model to a fixed point model.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein programming instructions for generating the AI model comprise programming instructions configured to cause the first processing device to: (i) initialize the AI model; (ii) determine a string; (iii) use a hash encoder to generate a hash code based on the string; (iv) fill in the AI model with the hash code; (v) determine whether the AI model has been filled up; (vi) if the AI model has not been filled up: update the string with the hash code; use the hash encoder to generate the hash code based on the updated string; and repeat steps (iv)-(vi) until the AI model has been filled up.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the hash encoder is one of a SHA1, SHA224, SHA256, SHA384, or SHA512 methods.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the string comprises a unique random string.
11. A method comprising: by a first processing device: (i) accessing a dataset; (ii) generating an artificial intelligence (AI) model; (iii) loading the AI model into a first AI chip to generate a first performance value based on the dataset; (iv) receiving a chain from a communication network, the chain comprising a performance measure; (v) determining whether the first performance value has exceeded the performance measure; and (vi) if the first performance value has exceeded the performance measure: creating a block comprising the AI model and the first performance value; transmitting the block and a verification request to the communication network to verify the block; and if verification of the block succeeds, updating the chain based on the first performance value so that the chain is available to one or more of the plurality of processing devices on the communication network; and by a second processing device: receiving from the communication network the chain comprising the performance measure; receiving from the communication network the block and the verification request; responding to the verification request from the first processing device by: loading the AI model into a second AI chip to generate a second performance value based on the dataset; determining whether the second performance value has exceeded the performance measure; and if the second performance value has exceeded the performance measure, responding to the verification request via the communication network with a verification success.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the AI model is a convolutional neural network comprising a plurality of weights for loading into the first and second AI chips.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein verifying the block comprises: (vii) receiving responses from the second processing device or one or more additional processing devices responding to the verification request; and (viii) based on the received responses, determining that the verification of the block is successful if at least a percentage of the total number of processing devices receiving the verification request has responded with a verification success.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein verifying the block additionally comprises: repeating steps (vii)-(viii) within a time period; and determining that the verification of the block fails if not more than the percentage of the total number of processing devices receiving the verification request has responded with a verification success within the time period.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein receiving the chain that comprises the performance measure occurs at a time interval.
16. The method of claim 11 further comprising, by the first processing device: if verification of the block is successful, receiving an award if no chain that comprises a performance value that is better than the first performance value is received on the communication network within a time period.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the AI model comprises converting a floating model to a fixed point model.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein generating the AI model comprises: (i) initializing the AI model; (ii) determining a string; (iii) using a hash encoder to generate a hash code based on the string; (iv) filling in the AI model with the hash code; (v) determining whether the AI model has been filled up; (vi) if the AI model has not been filled up: updating the string with the hash code; using the hash encoder to generate the hash code based on the updated string; and repeating steps (iv)-(vi) until the AI model has been filled up.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the hash encoder is one of a SHA1, SHA224, SHA256, SHA384, or SHA512 methods.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the string comprises a unique random string.
</claims>
</document>
