<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01Q1/22,H01Q1/38,H01Q13/24,H01Q21/00,H01Q21/20,H01Q3/24,H01Q3/26,H01Q3/30,H04B7/0495
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
BRITZ, DAVID M.
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
JOHNSON, SHIKIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60655149
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and methods for selecting sections of an antenna array and use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, selecting a first segment from a plurality of selectable segments of an array of dielectric antennas, where the first segment corresponds to a first set of one or more dielectric antennas from the array of dielectric antennas coupled to a first set of launchers, directing the first set of launchers to launch first electromagnetic waves directed to the first set of one or more dielectric antennas to generate a first beam pattern, selecting a second segment from the plurality of selectable segments, where the second segment corresponds to a second set of one or more dielectric antennas from the array of dielectric antennas coupled to a second set of launchers, and directing the second set of launchers to launch second electromagnetic waves directed to the second set of one or more dielectric antennas to generate a second beam pattern. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: an array of dielectric polyrod antennas organized into a plurality of sections, wherein each dielectric polyrod antenna of the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is independently selectable via a printed circuit board, and wherein the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is configured in a circular configuration to enable generation of beam patterns from the plurality of sections having different angular directions; a plurality of dielectric cores coupled to the array of dielectric polyrod antennas; a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: detecting a first trajectory of a first communication device; selecting a first section from the plurality of sections to direct a first beam pattern to the first communication device based on the first trajectory; detecting a second trajectory of a second communication device; and selecting a second section from the plurality of sections to direct a second beam pattern to the second communication device based on the second trajectory, wherein the first section of the plurality of sections differs from the second section of the plurality of sections.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein launchers, coupled to dielectric antennas associated with a remainder of the plurality of sections that are not in use, are disabled.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein first electromagnetic waves launched along a first set of dielectric cores from the plurality of dielectric cores convey first data to the first communication device via the first beam pattern, and wherein second electromagnetic waves launched along a second set of dielectric cores from the plurality of dielectric cores convey second data to the second communication device via the second beam pattern, and wherein the first data differs from the second data.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the first electromagnetic waves comprise a plurality of electromagnetic waves, wherein each electromagnetic wave of the plurality of electromagnetic waves is launched in a different dielectric core of the first set of dielectric cores of the plurality of dielectric cores.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the second electromagnetic waves comprise a plurality of electromagnetic waves, and wherein each electromagnetic wave of the plurality of electromagnetic waves is launched in a different dielectric core of the second set of dielectric cores of the plurality of dielectric cores.
6. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the first electromagnetic waves to steer a direction of the first beam pattern.
7. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the first electromagnetic waves to adjust a shape of the first beam pattern.
8. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the second electromagnetic waves to steer a direction of the second beam pattern.
9. The device of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise adjusting the second electromagnetic waves to adjust a shape of the second beam pattern.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting a third section from the plurality of sections, wherein the third section corresponds to a third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas from the array of dielectric polyrod antennas; and launching third electromagnetic waves along a third set of one or more dielectric cores that cause the third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas to generate a beam pattern that combines with the first beam pattern to form a third beam pattern.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting a third section from the plurality of sections, wherein the third section corresponds to a third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas from the array of dielectric polyrod antennas; and launching third electromagnetic waves along a third set of one or more dielectric cores that cause the third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas to generate a beam pattern that combines with the second beam pattern to form a third beam pattern.
12. A method, comprising: detecting, by a processing system including a processor, a first trajectory of a first communication device; selecting, by the processing system, a first section from a plurality of selectable sections of an array of dielectric polyrod antennas, wherein each dielectric polyrod antenna of the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is independently selectable via a printed circuit board, wherein the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is configured in a circular configuration to enable generation of beam patterns from the plurality of selectable sections having different angular directions, and wherein the first section corresponds to a first set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas from the array of dielectric polyrod antennas to direct a first beam pattern to the first communication device based on the first trajectory; detecting, by the processing system, a second trajectory of a second communication device; and selecting, by the processing system based on the second trajectory, a second section from the plurality of selectable sections of the array of dielectric polyrod antennas to generate a second beam pattern directed to the second communication device, wherein the first beam pattern conveys first data, wherein the second beam pattern conveys second data.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising directing a first set of launchers to adjust a plurality of electromagnetic waves supplied to the first section to steer a direction of the first beam pattern or adjust a shape of the first beam pattern.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising directing a second set of launchers to adjust a plurality of electromagnetic waves supplied to the second section to steer a direction of the second beam pattern or adjust a shape of the second beam pattern.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: selecting, by the processing system, a third section from the plurality of selectable sections, wherein the third section corresponds to a third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas from the array of dielectric polyrod antennas; and launching electromagnetic waves along a third set of one or more dielectric cores that cause the third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas to generate, by the processing system, a beam pattern that combines with the first beam pattern, the second beam pattern, or both to form a third beam pattern.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving at a third section of the plurality of selectable sections a wireless signal supplied by a communication device, wherein the wireless signal conveys third data, and wherein the third section corresponds to a third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas from the array of dielectric polyrod antennas coupled to receivers; and directing the receivers to obtain the third data from electromagnetic waves generated by the third set of one or more dielectric polyrod antennas responsive to receiving the wireless signal.
17. A device, comprising: means for detecting a first trajectory of a first communication device and a second trajectory of a second communication device; means for selecting a first segment from a plurality of selectable segments of an array of dielectric polyrod antennas to direct a first beam pattern to the first communication device based on the first trajectory, wherein each dielectric polyrod antenna of the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is independently selectable via a printed circuit board, and wherein the array of dielectric polyrod antennas is configured in a circular configuration to enable generation of beam patterns from the plurality of selectable segments having different angular directions; and means for selecting a second segment from the plurality of selectable segments of the array of dielectric polyrod antennas to direct a second beam pattern to the second communication device based on the second trajectory.
18. The device of claim 17, further comprising means for steering the first beam pattern.
19. The device of claim 17, further comprising means for adjusting a shape of the first beam pattern.
20. The device of claim 17, further comprising means for steering or adjusting a shape of the second beam pattern.
</claims>
</document>
