<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHOHAM, YOAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
44307573
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated agent for social media systems
</title>

<abstract>
A method to automatically process social media data includes capturing captured data, describing actions and/or context relating a user across multiple social media systems. The captured data is stored within a database. One or more interfaces are provided in order to provide access to the stored captured data. A rules database is configured to store multiple social media rules (e.g., behaviors) that may be associated with a user. A behavior engine is configured to perform autonomous activities, on behalf of a user with respect to multiple social media platforms, based on the social medial rules and/or the captured data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a server, data describing a first set of one or more actions performed by a user on a first social media platform resulting in a first outcome associated with the first social media platform; identifying, by the server, one or more rules specific to a second social media platform; automatically identifying, by the server, a second set of one or more actions to perform on the second social media platform on behalf of the user by processing a portion of the data describing the first set of one or more actions performed by the user on the first social media platform in view of the one or more rules specific to the second social media platform; and automatically providing, by the server, instructions that when implemented cause a virtual agent to perform, on behalf of the user, the second set of one or more actions on the second social media platform, wherein performing the second set of one or more actions results in a second outcome associated with the second social media platform that is similar to the first outcome associated with the first social media platform.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the data with stored data associated with the user to identify at least a portion of the data, the at least a portion of the data being non-duplicative of the stored data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein comparing further comprises identifying a remaining portion of the data as being duplicative in view of the stored data, the method further comprising: identifying a first virtual agent associated with the data; identifying a second virtual agent associated with the stored data; and associating the remaining portion of the data with the second virtual agent.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a condition associated with the one or more rules; and providing the instructions that when implemented cause the virtual agent to perform the second set of one or more actions on the second social media platform based on the condition.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the condition comprises at least one of a user activity reflected in the data, a temporal condition, a third-party action relating to the second social media platform, and an automated action relating to the second social media platform.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the virtual agent to perform, on behalf of the user, a third set of one or more actions on a third online service based on the data describing the first set of one or more actions performed by the user on the first social media platform.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more rules are embodied in the virtual agent that functions as a representative of the user across a plurality of online services.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a rule of the one or more rules is applicable to the first social media platform.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a rule of the one or more rules is applicable across multiple online services.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising modifying the one or more rules based on the data.
11. A system, comprising: a computing device; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the computing device and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving data describing a first set of one or more actions performed by a user on a first social media platform resulting in a first outcome associated with the first social media platform; identifying one or more rules specific to a second social media platform; automatically identifying a second set of one or more actions to perform on the second social media platform on behalf of the user by processing a portion of the data describing the first set of one or more actions performed by the user on the first social media platform in view of the one or more rules specific to the second social media platform; and automatically instructing a virtual agent to perform, on behalf of the user, the second set of one or more actions on the second social media platform, wherein performing the second set of one or more actions results in a second outcome associated with the second social media platform that is similar to the first outcome associated with the first social media platform.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, further cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: comparing the data with stored data associated with the user to identify at least a portion of the data, the at least a portion of the data being non-duplicative of the stored data.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein to compare the data with the stored data, the instructions, when executed by the computing device, cause the computing device to identify a remaining portion of the data as being duplicative in view of the stored data, and the instructions further cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: identifying a first virtual agent associated with the data; identifying a second virtual agent associated with the stored data; and associating the remaining portion of the data with the second virtual agent.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, further cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: identifying a condition associated with the one or more rules; and providing the instructions that when implemented cause the virtual agent to perform the second set of one or more actions on the second social media platform based on the condition.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the condition comprises at least one of a user activity reflected in the data, a temporal condition, a third-party action relating to the second social media platform, and an automated action relating to the second social media platform.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, further cause the computing device to perform operations comprising: instructing the virtual agent to perform, behalf of the user, a third set of one or more actions on a third online service based on the data describing the first set of one or more actions performed by the user on the first social media platform.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more rules are embodied in the virtual agent that functions as a representative of the user across a plurality of online services.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein a rule of the one or more rules is applicable to the first social media platform.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein a rule of the one or more rules is applicable across multiple online services.
20. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device, further cause the computing device to modify the one or more rules based on the data.
</claims>
</document>
