<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2458,G06F16/25,G06F17/30,G06Q10/06,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MPHASIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GANESH, JAI
SHARMA, RAJDEEP
SINGH, SAURABH
SAHU, RAVI
GUPTA, DAMINI
VYAS, ASHUTOSH
GARG, DIVAY
AHMED, MEER
MISHRA, ANKIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62386018
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for optimizing aggregation and analysis of data across multiple data sources
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for optimizing aggregation and analysis of data across multiple data sources of multiple enterprises is provided. Data extraction rules are generated by invoking an automatic rule generation rule. Automatic rule generation rule is invoked if a predefined set of rules is not applicable for extracting data. Further, data adaptation rules is generated if data extracted by applying data extraction rules and a predefined set of rules does not correspond to a predetermined output. The data adaptation rules is encapsulated in a feedback loop for transmitting to the data acquisition unit. Data optimization rules s generated based on data extraction rules and data adaptation rules. One or more metrics is generated based on data optimization rules. The metrics specify characteristics relevant to one or more enterprises.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for optimizing aggregation and analysis of data across multiple data sources of multiple enterprises, the system comprising: a memory for storing program instructions; a processor for executing program instructions stored in the memory; a data acquisition unit in communication with the processor and configured to generate a first set of data extraction rules by invoking an automatic rule generation rule, wherein the automatic rule generation rule is invoked in the event a predefined set of rules is determined to be not applicable for extracting data associated with the multiple data sources; a data analytics and feedback unit in communication with the processor and configured to generate a second set of data adaptation rules in the event data extracted by applying at least one of: the first set of data extraction rules and the predefined set of rules does not correspond to a predetermined output, wherein the set of data adaptation rules specifies a particular way of adapting one or more rules from the first set of data extraction rules and/or one or more rules of the predefined set of rules, and encapsulate the second set of data adaptation rules in a feedback loop for transmitting to the data acquisition unit; and an automatic decision making unit in communication with the processor and configured to generate a set of data optimization rules based on the first set of data extraction rules and the second set of data adaptation rules, wherein the set of data optimization rules is generated by associating each data extraction rule from the first set of data extraction rules and the predefined set of rules with a corresponding data adaptation rule, and generate one or more metrics based on the set of data optimization rules, wherein the one or more metrics specify characteristics relevant to one or more enterprises.
2. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein each rule of the first set of data extraction rules specify a particular way of extracting data based on a manner in which information is presented in documents of multiple data formats.
3. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predefined set of rules include specific rules to select and apply one or more cognitive computing techniques to read and extract data from documents of multiple data formats.
4. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predefined set of rules includes the rule to automatically generate rules by learning a new manner in which information is presented in documents of multiple data formats.
5. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data analytics and feedback unit generates the second set of data adaptation rules in the event it is determined that the extracted data does not correspond to a predetermined output, wherein the predetermined output is ascertained based on a predefined criteria stored in a knowledge base.
6. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second set of data adaptation rules includes different rules that specify a particular way of adapting a corresponding rule of the first set of data extraction rules to adapt to documents with a particular way of presenting information.
7. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the second set of data adaptation rules includes different rules that specify a particular way of adapting a corresponding rule of the predefined set of rules to adapt to documents with a particular way of presenting information.
8. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data analytics and feedback unit stores new data obtained by application of the second set of data adaptation as data elements in a term document matrix.
9. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the data generated by applying the data extraction rules and the data generated by applying the data adaptation rules is stored in a knowledge database as semantic data.
10. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the automatic decision unit generates the set of data optimization rules by identifying correspondence between each rule of the first set of data extraction rules and each rule of the data adaptation rules based on a feedback data stored in a repository.
11. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the automatic decision unit generates the set of data optimization rules by identifying correspondence between a specific rule of the predefined set of rules and each rule of the data adaptation rules based on a feedback data stored in a repository.
12. The system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the automatic decision unit 110 is configured to generate workflows on the basis of the metrics generated for each enterprise in relation to services and products offered by each enterprise.
13. A method for optimizing aggregation and analysis of data across multiple data sources of multiple enterprises, the method comprising: generating a first set of data extraction rules by invoking an automatic rule generation rule, wherein the automatic rule generation rule is invoked in the event a predefined set of rules is determined to be not applicable for extracting data associated with the multiple data sources; generating a second set of data adaptation rules in the event data extracted by applying at least one of: the first set of data extraction rules and the predefined set of rules does not correspond to a predetermined output, wherein the set of data adaptation rules specifies a particular way of adapting one or more rules from the first of data extraction rules and/or one or more rules of the predefined set of rules; encapsulating the second set of data adaptation rules in a feedback loop for transmission; generating a set of data optimization rules based on the first set of data extraction rules and the second set of data adaptation rules, wherein the set of data optimization rules is generated by associating each data extraction rule from the set of data extraction rule and the predefined set of rules with a corresponding data adaptation rule; and generating one or more metrics based on the set of data optimization rules, wherein the one or more metrics specify characteristics relevant to one or more enterprises.
14. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein each rule of the first set of data extraction rules specify a particular way of extracting data based on a manner in which information is presented in documents of multiple data formats.
15. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the predefined set of rules include specific rules to select and apply one or more cognitive computing techniques to read and extract data from documents of multiple data formats.
16. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the predefined set of rules includes the rule to automatically generate rules by learning a new manner in which information is presented in documents of multiple data formats.
17. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the method comprises generating the second set of data adaptation rules in the event it is determined that the extracted data does not correspond to a predetermined output, wherein the predetermined output is ascertained based on a predefined criteria stored in a knowledge base.
18. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the second set of data adaptation rules includes different rules that specify a particular way of adapting a corresponding rule of the first set of data extraction rules to adapt to documents with a particular way of presenting information.
19. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the second set of data adaptation rules includes different rules that specify a particular way of adapting a corresponding rule of the predefined set of rules to adapt to documents with a particular way of presenting information.
20. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the method comprises storing new data obtained by application of the second set of data adaptation as data elements in a term document matrix.
21. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the method comprises storing the data generated by applying the data extraction rules and the data generated by applying the data adaptation rules in a knowledge database as semantic data.
22. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein method comprises generating the set of data optimization rules by identifying correspondence between each rule of the first set of data extraction rules and each rule of the data adaptation rules based on a feedback data stored in a repository.
23. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the method comprises generating the set of data optimization rules by identifying correspondence between a specific rule of the predefined set of rules and each rule of the data adaptation rules based on a feedback data stored in a repository.
24. The method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the method comprises generating workflows on the basis of the metrics generated for each enterprise in relation to services and products offered by each enterprise.
25. A computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-readable program code stored thereon, the computer-readable program code comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to: generate a first set of data extraction rules by invoking an automatic rule generation rule, wherein the automatic rule generation rule is invoked in the event a predefined set of rules is determined to be not applicable for extracting data associated with the multiple data sources; generate a second set of data adaptation rules in the event data extracted by applying at least one of: the first set of data extraction rules and the predefined set of rules does not correspond to a predetermined output, wherein the set of data adaptation rules specifies a particular way of adapting one or more rules from the first set of data extraction rules and/or one or more rules of the predefined set of rules, and encapsulate the second set of data adaptation rules in a feedback loop for transmitting to the data acquisition unit; and generate a set of data optimization rules based on the first set of data extraction rules and the second set of data adaptation rules, wherein the set of data optimization rules is generated by associating each data extraction rule from the first set of data extraction rules and the predefined set of rules with a corresponding data adaptation rule, and generate one or more metrics based on the set of data optimization rules, wherein the one or more metrics specify characteristics relevant to one or more enterprises.
</claims>
</document>
