<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/12,H04M1/725,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI XEROX COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARIKAWA, KIICHIRO
YASUOKA, DAISUKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65435890
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information processing apparatus and non-transitory computer readable medium storage program
</title>

<abstract>
An information processing apparatus includes an acquirer that acquires information indicating a request from a user, and a controller that causes, in response to the request, a provider to provide first information that does not depend on a device or second information that depends on the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information processing apparatus, comprising: at least one hardware processor configured to implement: an acquirer that acquires information indicating a request from a user and an approach of the user; and a controller that causes, in response to the request and the approach, a provider to provide first information that does not depend on a device or second information that depends on the device, wherein the approach comprises the user coming positionally closer to the information processing apparatus as the user makes the request, wherein, as processing in response to the request, the controller controls provision of the first information or the second information based on a positional relationship among the user, the device, and the provider, wherein the controller changes contents of the second information based on the positional relationship and an action of the user, wherein the controller controls, based on the positional relationship and the action of the user, execution of a first mode for holding a conversation with the user, a second mode for providing information related to the user, or a third mode for providing information related to an operation for the device as a mode for providing the second information, wherein the controller controls the execution of the first mode, the second mode, or the third mode based on the positional relationship, the action of the user, and a state of the device, wherein the controller controls the execution of the first mode when the state of the device corresponds to an error state, wherein the controller controls, as the execution of the first mode, provision of information related to a different device that meets the request, and wherein the controller preferentially provides the information related to the different device when the different device is located closer to a position of the user.
2. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first information is information that is not unique to the user, and wherein the second information is information unique to the user.
3. The information processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the request is presumed based on a position of the user.
4. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of areas are defined based on a position of at least one of the device and the provider, and wherein the controller controls the provision of the first information or the second information based on a positional relationship between the user and each of the areas.
5. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller changes contents of the second information based on the positional relationship.
6. The information processing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein a plurality of areas are defined based on a position of at least one of the device and the provider, and wherein the controller changes the contents of the second information based on a positional relationship between the user and each of the areas.
7. The information processing apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the controller controls, based on the positional relationship, execution of a first mode for holding a conversation with the user, a second mode for providing information related to the user, or a third mode for providing information related to an operation for the device as a mode for providing the second information.
8. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller controls the execution of the second mode or the third mode based on the action of the user when the state of the device corresponds to an error state.
9. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the provider is a user interface having at least one of a display function and an audio output function, and wherein each of the first information and the second information includes at least one of visual information and audio information.
10. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller changes how the second information is provided based on a type of the device.
11. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller changes how the first information and the second information are provided based on a type of the provider.
12. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller controls provision of information related to a plurality of devices as the second information.
13. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one hardware processor is further configured to implement: determining which side of the information processing apparatus to which the user approached; determining the request from a verbal request provided by the user; and providing, in response to analyzing the verbal request and determining which side of the information processing apparatus the user approached, at least one of the first information and the second information depending on the verbal request and which side of the information processing apparatus the user approached.
14. The information processing apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the at least one hardware processor is further configured to implement: providing, in response to analyzing the verbal request and determining which side of the information processing apparatus the user approached, the first information and the second information by printing the first information and the second information onto a paper.
15. The information processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the controller causes the provider to provide first information or the second information directly in response to the request and the approach.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program causing a computer to execute a process comprising: acquiring information indicating a request from a user and an approach of the user; and providing, in response to the request and the approach, first information that does not depend on a device or second information that depends on the device, wherein the approach comprises the user coming positionally closer to the information processing apparatus as the user makes the request, wherein the process further comprises controlling, in response to the request, provision of the first information or the second information based on a positional relationship among the user, the device, and the provider, changing contents of the second information based on the positional relationship and an action of the user, controlling, based on the positional relationship and the action of the user, execution of a first mode for holding a conversation with the user, a second mode for providing information related to the user, or a third mode for providing information related to an operation for the device as a mode for providing the second information, controlling the execution of the first mode, the second mode, or the third mode based on the positional relationship, the action of the user, and a state of the device, controlling the execution of the first mode when the state of the device corresponds to an error state, controlling, as the execution of the first mode, provision of information related to a different device that meets the request, and preferentially providing the information related to the different device when the different device is located closer to a position of the user.
</claims>
</document>
