<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
OSOTIO, NEAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64564205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic data access from derived trust level
</title>

<abstract>
Representative embodiments disclose mechanisms for automatically granting access to information based on a derived trust level. Communications between two users are evaluated to identify commonalities in user characteristics, data characteristics, and context of the communications to establish a trust level from one user to another. This information is utilized to establish a trust model between the two users. In future communications, the trust model is used to determine whether to grant access to information based on the current user characteristics, data characteristics and context. Requests for data are passed through the trust model to grant or deny access. Alternatively, data can be injected into a conversation when the appropriate characteristics are met. In alternative embodiments, security model parameters can be automatically adjusted and access granted or denied based on the security model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically granting access to user data, comprising: receiving a plurality of interactions from a first user to a second user, each interaction comprising an identity of the second user, information communicated to the second user, and a context in which the information was communicated; deriving a trust model from the plurality of interactions using a machine learning technique; without user intervention, annotating a subset of user data, the annotation indicating what trust level or security model setting grants access to the annotated user data, the annotated user data comprising first user data; receiving either a request for the first user data from a requesting user or a communication from the first user to a receiving user; responsive to receiving the request: selecting the trust model from among a plurality of trust models based on an identity of the requesting user; presenting the request to the trust model and in response, receiving a trust level or a security model setting; and granting or denying access to the first user data based on the trust level or the security model setting; responsive to receiving the communication: selecting the trust model from among the plurality of trust models based on an identity of the receiving user; identifying a subset of annotated user data that the receiving user is allowed to access based on the trust model; determining whether data relevant to a conversation between the first user and the receiving user exists in the subset of annotated user data; and responsive to determining data relevant to the conversation exists, injecting at least a portion of the relevant data into the conversation.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the request comprises: the identity of the requesting user; identification of the first user data; and a context in which the request is made.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the communication comprises: the identity of the receiving user; and information communicated between the first user and the receiving user.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the requesting user is not the second user.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein responsive to receiving the request, the method further comprises: presenting notification to the first user prior to granting or denying access, the notification requesting confirmation from the first user regarding granting or denying access.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein the notification is presented or not based on the trust level or security model setting.
7. The method of claim 1 further wherein the receiving user is not the second user.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the subset of user data is less than all user data such that a portion of the user data remains unannotated.
9. A system for automatically granting access to user data comprising a hardware processor and computer executable instructions, that when executed by the hardware processor, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of interactions from a first user to a second user, each interaction comprising an identity of the second user, information communicated to the second user, and a context in which the information was communicated; deriving a trust model from the plurality of interactions using a machine learning technique; without user intervention, annotating a larger body of first user data, the annotation indicating what trust level or security model setting grants access to the annotated first user data; receiving a communication from the first user comprising: a user identity; identification of first user data communicated to a user associated with the user identity, the first user data being a part of the larger body of first user data; and a context in which the communication is made; selecting the trust model from among a plurality of trust models based on the identity of the user; identifying a subset of the larger body of first user data based on the trust model that the user is allowed access to; identifying a portion of the subset that is relevant to the communication; and injecting the portion into a conversation between the first user and the user.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein the user is the second user.
11. The system of claim 9 wherein the user is not the second user.
12. The system of claim 9 further comprising presenting notification to the first user prior to granting or denying access, the notification requesting confirmation from the first user regarding granting or denying access.
13. The system of claim 9 wherein identifying the subset of the larger body of first user data based on the trust model comprises: presenting the communication to the trust model and receiving in response a trust level or security model setting; evaluating the larger body of first user data; and selecting as part of the subset of the larger body of first user data the first user data that meets the trust level or security model setting.
14. The system of claim 13 further comprising: identifying the trust level associated with the portion of the subset; and determining whether to present a notification to the first user based on the trust level associated with the portion of the subset.
15. The system of claim 9 wherein after annotating the larger body of first user data, the first user's data comprises an annotated portion and an unannotated portion.
16. The system of claim 9 further comprising: receiving feedback from the first user; and updating the selected trust model based on the received feedback.
17. A computer storage medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: receiving a plurality of interactions from a first user to a second user, each interaction comprising an identity of the second user, information communicated to the second user, and a context in which the information was communicated; deriving a trust model from the plurality of interactions using a machine learning technique; deriving a trust level for each item in a body of first user data using the trust model; without user intervention, annotating each item with a corresponding trust level, or adjusting a security model setting required to access each item, or both; receiving information comprising a request for the first user data or a communication from the first user, the information comprising: a user identity; identification of the first user data; and a context in which the request or communication is made; selecting the trust model from among a plurality of trust models based on the user identity; presenting the request or communication to the trust model and in response to the request or communication, receiving a trust level or a security model setting; and granting or denying access to the first user data based on the trust level or the security model setting.
18. The medium of claim 17 further comprising: receiving feedback from the first user regarding the access granted or denied; and updating the selected trust model based on the feedback.
</claims>
</document>
