<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F11/00,A63F13/54,A63F13/60,A63F13/67,A63F9/24,G06F13/00,G06F17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLACK, GLENN
TAYLOR, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65720981
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic modification of audio playback in games
</title>

<abstract>
A method for dynamically modifying audio playback of a video game is provided. The method includes ascertaining a game music data associated with the video game. The game music data may include a plurality of game soundtracks classified according to predetermined criteria. The method may include collecting feedback over a period of time while the user is playing the video game. The method may continue with determining, based on the feedback, one or more replacement soundtracks based on criteria associated with the one or more replacement soundtracks. The method may further include dynamically modifying the game music data while the user is playing the video game by replacing at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks with the one or more replacement soundtracks to obtain modified game music data. The modified game music data may be provided to the user while the user is playing the video game.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for dynamically modifying audio playback of a video game, the system comprising: a processor configured to: while a user is playing a particular video game: ascertain game music data associated with a particular video game, the game music data including a plurality of game soundtracks classified according to predetermined criteria; collect feedback over a period of time while the user is playing the video game, the feedback including at least data associated with a performance of the user in the particular video game; based on the feedback, dynamically modify the game music data by replacing in real-time at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks with one or more replacement soundtracks to obtain modified game music data; and provide the modified game music data to the user; and an analyzing unit configured to determine, based on the feedback, the one or more replacement soundtracks based on criteria associated with the one or more replacement soundtracks.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the feedback further includes one or more of the following: an express action of the user, evaluation of game results, an emotional state of the user, and an input of the user, the input including at least one of a tactile input, an audio input, a video input, and a biometric input.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the emotional state of the user includes one or more of the following: a biometrical response, a facial expression, a facial motion, and a stress level.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the express action includes one or more of the following: pressing a "like" button, pressing a "thumbs up" button, pressing a "thumbs down" button, enabling a pop-up, the pop-up showing at least a title of a song provided to the user in the modified game music data, and disabling the pop-up.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to: access a music source, the music source including the one or more replacement soundtracks; and wherein the analyzing unit is further configured to: determine audio parameters for each of the one or more replacement soundtracks; classify the one or more replacement soundtracks based on the audio parameters; and index the one or more replacement soundtracks based on the classifying to provide replacement soundtrack indexes, wherein the replacement soundtrack indexes are used to match a classification of the one or more replacement soundtracks with a classification of the plurality of game soundtracks.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the classification of each of the plurality of game soundtracks and the classification of the one or more replacement soundtracks is determined by a machine-learning system; and wherein the machine-learning system is trained based on historical user data stored in a historical data database.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the audio parameters include a beats-per-minute value, a tonality value, a pitch value, a timbre value, a harmonics value, a loudness value, a rhythm value, a sound envelope, a music genre, a release date, and an emotional classification.
8. The system of claim 2, wherein the emotional state of the user is determined based on a voice of the user.
9. A method for dynamically modifying audio playback of a video game, the method comprising: while a user is playing a particular video game: ascertaining game music data associated with a particular video game, the game music data including a plurality of game soundtracks classified according to predetermined criteria; collecting feedback, the feedback including at least data associated with a performance of the user in the particular video game; based on the feedback, determining one or more replacement soundtracks based on criteria associated with the one or more replacement soundtracks; dynamically modifying the game music data by replacing in real-time at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks with the one or more replacement soundtracks to obtain modified game music data; and providing the modified game music data to the user.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising storing the feedback to a historical data database, the historical data database storing a plurality of feedbacks associated with a plurality of users collected while each of the plurality of users is playing the particular video game.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the feedback further includes one or more of the following: an express action of the user, evaluation of game results, an emotional state of the user, and an input of the user, the input including at least one of a tactile input, an audio input, a video input, and a biometric input.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the emotional state of the user includes one or more of the following: a biometrical response, a facial expression, a facial motion, and a stress level.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising identifying the stress level of the user based on user vital parameters or user motions.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the express action includes one or more of the following: pressing a "like" button, pressing a "thumbs up" button, pressing a "thumbs down" button, enabling a pop-up, the pop-up showing at least a title of a song provided to the user in the modified game music data, and disabling the pop-up.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the emotional state of the user is determined based on a voice of the user.
16. The method of claim 9, further comprising: searching in a historical data database for one or more users having parameters similar to parameters of the user; and selecting one or more game soundtracks recommended or preferred by the one or more users; wherein the dynamic modifying of the game music data further includes replacing at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks with the one or more game soundtracks recommended or preferred by the one or more users.
17. The method of claim 9, further comprising: accessing a music source, the music source including the one or more replacement soundtracks; determining audio parameters for each of the one or more replacement soundtracks; classifying the one or more replacement soundtracks based on the audio parameters; and indexing the one or more replacement soundtracks based on the classifying to provide replacement soundtrack indexes, wherein the replacement soundtrack indexes are used to match a classification of the one or more replacement soundtracks with a classification of the plurality of game soundtracks.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the classification of each of the plurality of game soundtracks and the classification of the one or more replacement soundtracks is determined by a machine-learning system; and wherein the machine-learning system is trained based on historical user data stored in the historical data database.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the audio parameters include a beats-per-minute value, a tonality value, a pitch value, a timbre value, a harmonics value, a loudness value, a rhythm value, a sound envelope, a music genre, a release date, and an emotional classification.
20. The method of claim 9, further comprising identifying sound triggers based on a gameplay of the particular video game, actions of the user in the particular video game, or actions of further users in the particular video game, wherein the replacement of the at least one of the plurality game soundtracks with the one or more replacement soundtracks is performed at times associated with the sound triggers.
21. The method of claim 9, further comprising temporarily displaying, within the particular video game, an identifier of the one or more replacement soundtracks used to replace the at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks.
22. A non-transitory processor-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to implement a method for dynamically modifying audio playback of a video game, the method comprising: while a user is playing a particular video game: ascertaining game music data associated with a particular video game, the game music data including a plurality of game soundtracks classified according to predetermined criteria; collecting feedback, the feedback including at least data associated with a performance of the user in the particular video game; based on the feedback, determining one or more replacement soundtracks based on criteria associated with the one or more replacement soundtracks; dynamically modifying the game music data while the user is playing the particular video game by replacing in real-time at least one of the plurality of game soundtracks with the one or more replacement soundtracks to obtain modified game music data; and providing the modified game music data to the user while the user is playing the particular video game.
</claims>
</document>
