<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W28/02,H04W28/06,H04W28/08,H04W4/02,H04W76/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARAMES, MIGUEL A.
DRAZNIN, SAGIV
HUANG YE
NELSON, MATTHEW W.
YANG JIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72140714
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and device for adaptively controlling traffic in a mobile network
</title>

<abstract>
A device receive property data associated with a coverage area of a mobile network, wherein the property data includes identification information and location information associated with the coverage area; receive load data associated with the coverage area; determine a load threshold associated with the coverage area; determine whether the load data satisfies the load threshold; identify, based on determining that the load data satisfies the load threshold, impacted user equipment associated with the coverage area, wherein the impacted user equipment is further identified based on the property data; identify an application network device associated with the coverage area and the impacted user equipment, wherein the application network device is further identified based on the property data; determine a corrective action based on the load data, the load threshold, and the application network device; and perform the corrective action in connection with the application network device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, property data associated with a coverage area of a mobile network, wherein the property data includes identification information and location information associated with the coverage area; receiving, by the device, load data associated with the coverage area; determining, by the device, a load threshold associated with the coverage area; determining, by the device, whether the load data satisfies the load threshold; identifying, by the device and based on determining that the load data satisfies the load threshold, impacted user equipment associated with the coverage area, wherein the impacted user equipment is further identified based on the property data; identifying, by the device, an application network device associated with the coverage area and the impacted user equipment, wherein the application network device is further identified based on the property data; determining, by the device, a corrective action based on the load data, the load threshold, and the application network device; and performing, by the device, the corrective action in connection with the application network device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the load threshold comprises: determining a first load threshold and a second load threshold based on a capacity limit of the coverage area, wherein the first load threshold approximates the capacity limit and corresponds to a first corrective action, and wherein the second load threshold is less than the first load threshold and corresponds to a second corrective action.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the corrective action comprises: determining a first corrective action corresponding to satisfaction of a first load threshold, wherein the first load threshold approximates a capacity limit of the coverage area; and determining a second corrective action corresponding to satisfaction of a second load threshold, wherein the second load threshold is less than the first load threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the corrective action comprises: throttling mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; and transmitting a request to the application network device to limit mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the corrective action comprises: buffering mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; and transmitting a request to the application network device to limit mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving updated load data after performing the corrective action; determining whether the updated load data satisfies the load threshold; and ending the corrective action based on determining that the updated load data does not satisfy the load threshold.
7. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: receive property data associated with a coverage area of a mobile network; receive load data associated with the coverage area; determine a first load threshold and a second load threshold associated with the coverage area; determine whether the load data satisfies one or more of the first load threshold or the second load threshold; identify, based on determining that the load data satisfies one or more of the first load threshold or the second load threshold, impacted user equipment associated with the coverage area; identify an application network device associated with the coverage area and the impacted user equipment; and selectively perform a first corrective action or a second corrective action in connection with the application network device, wherein the first corrective action is to be performed in connection with the application network device based on determining that the load data satisfies the first load threshold, wherein the second corrective action is to be performed in connection with the application network device based on determining that the load data satisfies the second load threshold, wherein the second corrective action is different from the first corrective action.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the property data includes at least two of: identification information associated with the coverage area, location information associated with the coverage area, user equipment identification information, user equipment location information, or application network device information.
9. The device of claim 7, wherein the load data includes: a number of user equipment in the mobile network and connected to the coverage area.
10. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when determining the first load threshold and the second load threshold, are to: determine the first load threshold and the second load threshold based on a capacity limit of the coverage area, wherein the first load threshold approximates the capacity limit, and wherein the second load threshold is less than the first load threshold.
11. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when identifying the application network device, are to: identify the application network device based on application network device information, wherein the property data includes the application network device information.
12. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when performing the first corrective action, are to: transmit a request to the impacted user equipment to limit mobile-originated network traffic originating from the impacted user equipment; and block mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
13. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when performing the second corrective action, are to: throttle mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; buffer mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; and transmit a request to the application network device to limit mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
14. The device of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors are further to: receive updated load data after performing the first corrective action or the second corrective action; determine whether the updated load data satisfies one of the first load threshold or the second load threshold; and end the first corrective action or the second corrective action based on determining that the updated load data does not satisfy the second load threshold.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive property data associated with a coverage area of a mobile network, wherein the property data includes identification information and location information associated with the coverage area; receive load data associated with the coverage area; determine a load threshold associated with the coverage area; determine whether the load data satisfies the load threshold; identify, based on determining that the load data satisfies the load threshold, impacted user equipment associated with the coverage area, wherein the impacted user equipment is further identified based on the property data; identify an application network device associated with the coverage area and the impacted user equipment, wherein the application network device is further identified based on the property data; and restrict network traffic originating from the application network device.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the property data further includes: user equipment identification information, user equipment location information, and application network device information.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to restrict the network traffic, cause the one or more processors to: throttle mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; and transmit a request to the application network device to limit mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to restrict the network traffic, cause the one or more processors to: buffer mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device; and transmit a request to the application network device to limit mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to restrict the network traffic, cause the one or more processors to: transmit a request to the impacted user equipment to limit mobile-originated network traffic originating from the impacted user equipment; and block mobile-terminated network traffic originating from the application network device.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to restrict the network traffic, cause the one or more processors to: restrict the network traffic until the load data no longer satisfies the load threshold.
</claims>
</document>
