<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B26/08,G02B26/10,G03B21/00,G03B21/20,G09G5/18,H04N9/31
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRESS, BERNARD CHARLES
CHATTERJEE, ISHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69191205
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Display projector with non-uniform pixel resolution
</title>

<abstract>
A display device includes an array of light emitters and a mirror configured to reflect light from the light emitters toward an image plane. The display device further includes a controller configured to control the array of light emitters and the mirror to sweep the mirror through a range of angles, and selectively enable the light emitters during sweeping of the mirror. The selective enablement of light emitters, and the sweeping of the mirror, are configured to cause emitted light from the light emitters to project a plurality of pixels on/toward the image plane, with the pixels being spaced with a non-uniform resolution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A display device, comprising: an array of light emitters; a mirror configured to reflect light from the light emitters towards an image plane; and a controller configured to control the light emitters and the mirror to: sweep the mirror through a range of angles, and selectively enable the light emitters during sweeping of the mirror, such selective enablement and sweeping configured to cause emitted light from the light emitters to project a plurality of pixels on the image plane, the plurality of pixels spaced with a non-uniform resolution, wherein the selective enablement of light emitters includes toggling the light emitters between an on state and an off state according to a duty cycle for each light emitter and timing information from a clock of the controller, wherein the duty cycle for each light emitter is varied to achieve the non-uniform resolution.
2. The display device of claim 1, wherein: the array of light emitters includes two or more columns of light emitters with light emitters in each column arranged with a spacing defined by a pitch value; and the light emitters within a first column are arranged at an offset relative to the light emitters within a second column, the offset defined by an offset value less than the pitch value.
3. The display device of claim 2, wherein the offset value is less than half the pitch value.
4. The display device of claim 2, wherein the mirror is swept to display a vertical slice of pixels including pixels projected from light generated by emitters that were selectively enabled in the first column and the second column, wherein the sweeping of the mirror and the offset arrangement of the first column and the second column increases an effective resolution of pixels within the vertical slice.
5. The display device of claim 1, wherein due to the selective enablement of the light emitters, a foveal region of the image plane has a higher resolution than a periphery region of the image plane.
6. The display device of claim 5, wherein the foveal region is defined by tracking an eye of a human viewer.
7. The display device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of pixels are arranged within an elliptical region of the image plane.
8. The display device of claim 7, wherein the selective enablement includes selectively enabling light emitters based on whether light from the light emitters would fall within the elliptical region at a current mirror angle.
9. The display device of claim 1, wherein the selective enablement of light emitters includes selectively enabling a higher proportion of light emitters to achieve a higher resolution, and selectively enabling a lower proportion of light emitters to achieve a lower resolution.
10. The display device of claim 1, further comprising one or more fixed or switchable diffusers, each switchable diffuser configured to cause emitted light from a light emitter to be diffused to result in an enlarged pixel projected on the image plane.
11. The display device of claim 10, wherein the controller is configured to selectively switch the one or more switchable diffusers to selectively enlarge pixels in regions of pixels spaced with a relatively lower resolution.
12. The display device of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to sweep the mirror in a sawtooth pattern so that the mirror is driven from a first extreme angular position to a second extreme angular position at a first speed, then reset from the second extreme angular position to the first extreme angular position at a second speed exceeding the first speed.
13. The display device of claim 1, wherein the array of light emitters includes a column of red light emitters, a column of green light emitters, and a column of blue light emitters.
14. A method of controlling an array of light emitters and a mirror configured to reflect light from the light emitters towards an image plane, the method comprising: sweeping the mirror through a range of angles, selectively enabling one or more of the light emitters, such selective enablement configured to cause emitted light from the light emitters to project a plurality of pixels on the image plane, the plurality of pixels spaced with a non-uniform resolution; and controlling one or more switchable diffusers, each switchable diffuser configured to cause emitted light from a light emitter to be diffracted to result in an enlarged pixel projected on the image plane.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein controlling the one or more switchable diffusers includes switching the one or more switchable diffusers to selectively enlarge pixels in regions of pixels spaced with a relatively lower resolution.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein: the array of light emitters includes two or more columns with light emitters arranged with a spacing within each column defined by a pitch value; the light emitters within a first column are arranged at an offset relative to the light emitters within a second column, the offset defined by an offset value less than the pitch value; and the mirror is swept to display a vertical slice of pixels including pixels projected from light generated by emitters that were selectively enabled in the first column and the second column, wherein the offset arrangement of the first column and the second column increases an effective resolution of pixels within the vertical slice.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: tracking an eye of a human viewer; and based on a tracked pose of the eye of the human viewer, displaying the plurality of pixels with a non-uniform resolution including a foveal region having a higher resolution and a periphery region having a lower resolution.
18. A display device, comprising: an array of light emitters; a mirror configured to reflect light from the light emitters towards an image plane; one or more switchable diffusers, each switchable diffuser configured to cause emitted light from a light emitter to be diffracted to result in an enlarged pixel projected on the image plane; and a controller configured to control the array of light emitters and the mirror to: sweep the mirror through a range of angles, selectively enable one or more of the light emitters, such selective enablement configured to cause emitted light from the light emitters to project a plurality of pixels on the image plane, the plurality of pixels spaced with a non-uniform resolution, and selectively switch the one or more switchable diffusers to selectively enlarge pixels in regions of pixels spaced with a relatively lower resolution.
19. The display device of claim 14, wherein: the array of light emitters includes two or more columns of light emitters with light emitters in each column arranged with a spacing defined by a pitch value; and the light emitters within a first column are arranged at an offset relative to the light emitters within a second column, the offset defined by an offset value less than the pitch value.
20. The display device of claim 19, wherein the offset value is less than half the pitch value.
</claims>
</document>
