<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F30/20,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE INSPECTION TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KROHN, MATTHEW HARVEY
NUDELMAN, GRIGORY
ROSENBERG, MARK
GARCIA, WILLIAMS
HOURNBUCKLE, JR., BOBBY DALE
DASU, NAREN PRADYUMNA
MERRY, TARA
CAMPOS, MARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65719274
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Industrial asset intelligence
</title>

<abstract>
A method can include receiving data identifying an industrial asset. The method can also include receiving data characterizing one or more sensors configured to detect a first property of the asset. The method can further include determining a first graphical representation of the asset based on the received data identifying the industrial asset, and a second graphical representation of a first sensor of the one or more sensors based on the received data characterizing one or more properties of one or more sensors. The method can further include rendering, in a graphical display space, the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation. One or more visual properties of the second graphical representation can be indicative of one or more properties of the first sensor and/or the detected first property of the asset. A position of the second graphical representation in the graphical display space relative to the first graphical representation can be indicative of a first location of the first sensor on the asset.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving data identifying an industrial asset; receiving data characterizing one or more sensors configured to detect a first property of the asset; determining a first graphical representation of the asset based on the received data identifying the industrial asset, and a second graphical representation of a first sensor of the one or more sensors based on the received data characterizing one or more properties of one or more sensors; rendering, in a graphical display space, the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation, wherein one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation are indicative of one or more properties of at least one of the first sensor and the detected first property of the asset, wherein a position of the second graphical representation in the graphical display space relative to the first graphical representation is indicative of a first location of the first sensor on the asset, receiving a first user input indicative of a selection of the first sensor; determining a third graphical representation of a cross-section of the asset at the first location, the third graphical representation indicative of one or more sensor element locations of one or more sensor elements of the first sensor on the cross-section of the asset; and rendering the third graphical representation in the graphical display space.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second user input indicative of a selection of a first sensor element of the one or more sensor elements; determining a first plot indicative of the first property of the asset and detected by the first sensor element at a first sensor element location of the one or more sensor element locations; and rendering the first plot in the graphical display space.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a third user input indicative of a selection of a second sensor element of the one or more sensor elements; determining a second plot indicative of the first property of the asset and detected by the second sensor element at a second sensor element location of the one or more sensor element locations; and rendering the second plot in the graphical display space, wherein the second plot is superimposed on the first plot.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a second user input indicative of selection of a second sensor of the one or more sensors, the second sensor located at a second location on the asset; determining a fourth graphical representation of a second cross-section of the asset at the second location, the fourth graphical representation indicative of one or more sensor element locations of one or more sensor elements of the second sensor on the second cross-section of the asset; and rendering the fourth graphical representation in the graphical display space.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation comprises a color of the second graphical representation indicative of the first property of the industrial asset detected by the first sensor.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation comprises an opacity of the second graphical representation indicative of a corrosion rate associated with the industrial asset detected at the first location detected by the first sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first property comprises a wall thickness of the asset.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein a dashboard is configured to receive data identifying the industrial asset, and a digital model system is configured to: receive data characterizing one or more sensors configured to detect the first property of the asset, determine the first graphical representation of the asset based on the received data identifying the industrial asset, and the second graphical representation of the first sensor of the one or more sensors based on the received data characterizing one or more properties of one or more sensors, communicate data characterizing the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation to the dashboard, wherein the dashboard is configured to render data characterizing the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation in the graphical display space.
9. A system comprising: at least one data processor; memory coupled to the at least one data processor, the memory storing instructions to cause the at least one data processor to perform operations comprising: receiving data identifying an industrial asset; receiving data characterizing one or more sensors configured to detect a first property of the asset; determining a first graphical representation of the asset based on the received data identifying the industrial asset, and a second graphical representation of a first sensor of the one or more sensors based on the received data characterizing one or more properties of one or more sensors; rendering, in a graphical display space, the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation, wherein one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation are indicative of one or more properties of at least one of the first sensor and the detected first property of the asset, wherein a position of the second graphical representation in the graphical display space relative to the first graphical representation is indicative of a first location of the first sensor on the asset receiving a first user input indicative of a selection of the first sensor; determining a third graphical representation of a cross-section of the asset at the first location, the third graphical representation indicative of one or more sensor element locations of one or more sensor elements of the first sensor on the cross-section of the asset; and rendering the third graphical representation in the graphical display space.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprising: receiving a second user input indicative of a selection of a first sensor element of the one or more sensor elements; determining a first plot indicative of the first property of the asset and detected by the first sensor element at a first sensor element location of the one or more sensor element locations; and rendering the first plot in the graphical display space.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprising: receiving a third user input indicative of a selection of a second sensor element of the one or more sensor elements; determining a second plot indicative of the first property of the asset and detected by the second sensor element at a second sensor element location of the one or more sensor element locations; and rendering the second plot in the graphical display space, wherein the second plot is superimposed on the first plot.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprising: receiving a second user input indicative of selection of a second sensor of the one or more sensors, the second sensor located at a second location on the asset; determining a fourth graphical representation of a second cross-section of the asset at the second location, the fourth graphical representation indicative of one or more sensor element locations of one or more sensor elements of the second sensor on the second cross-section of the asset; and rendering the fourth graphical representation in the graphical display space.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation comprises a color of the second graphical representation indicative of the first property of the industrial asset detected by the first sensor.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more visual properties of the second graphical representation comprises an opacity of the second graphical representation indicative of a corrosion rate associated with the industrial asset detected at the first location detected by the first sensor.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the first property comprises a wall thickness of the asset.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein a dashboard is configured to receive data identifying the industrial asset, and a digital model system is configured to: receive data characterizing one or more sensors configured to detect the first property of the asset, determine the first graphical representation of the asset based on the received data identifying the industrial asset, and the second graphical representation of the first sensor of the one or more sensors based on the received data characterizing one or more properties of one or more sensors, communicate data characterizing the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation to the dashboard, wherein the dashboard is configured to render data characterizing the first graphical representation and the second graphical representation in the graphical display space.
</claims>
</document>
