<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/64,G02B21/00,G02F1/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOWARD HUGHES MEDICAL INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLICKINGER, DANIEL
PODGORSKI, KASPAR
KAZEMIPOUR, ABBAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62455840
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Scanned line angular projection microscopy
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for imaging a sample where the techniques include acquiring a raster scan image of the sample, providing light from a light source, directing the light into a plurality of different light beam paths at different times, providing light in each of the plurality of light beam paths through an objective lens to the sample, and providing light in each of the plurality of beams to different locations within the sample. Fluorescence emission light from the sample is detected in response to excitation by light in each of the plurality of light beam paths, where the detected fluorescence emission light corresponds to fluorescence intensity projections of the sample with low mutual coherence, and an image of the sample is generated based on the detected fluorescence emission light and based on the raster scan image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of imaging a sample, the method comprising: acquiring a raster scan image of a volume of the sample; providing light from a light source; directing the light into a plurality of different light beam paths at different times; providing light in each of the plurality of light beam paths through an objective lens to the sample; providing light in each of the plurality of beams to different locations within the sample; detecting fluorescence emission light from the sample in response to excitation by light in each of the plurality of light beam paths, wherein the fluorescence emission light detected in response to light in different ones of the plurality of light beam paths corresponds to fluorescence intensity projections of the sample in which light is emitted from different locations within the sample at the same time; and generating an image of the sample based on the detected fluorescence emission light and based on the raster scan image, wherein the generating includes using the raster scan image to determine spatial information about activity components of the sample.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein light in different ones of the plurality of light beam paths is provided to the sample to form a two-dimensional or three-dimensional intensity pattern in the sample with low mutual coherence between light intensities produced in the sample by different ones of the plurality of light beam paths.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein light in different light beam paths is provided to the sample at different angles with respect to a reference direction in a focal plane of the objective lens.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein light in each of the plurality of light beam paths is provided to the sample to form a line focus at a different angle with respect to a reference orientation.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein a width of the line of light is specified by a resolution limit of an objective lens through which the line of light is provided to the sample.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: switching the light from the light source with an electro-optical modulator into two different intermediate paths; switching the light in each of in the intermediate paths with a respective mechanical scanner into different ones of the plurality of light beams.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein providing light in each of the plurality of beams to the sample includes modulating light in each of the plurality of light beams with a spatial light modulator to provide a programmable subset of the beam onto the light beam path that enters the sample.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the programmable subset of the beam that enters the sample corresponds to one or more locations of regions of interest in the sample.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an image of the sample includes generating a plurality of three-dimensional images of the sample corresponding to different timepoints and labeling space-time coordinates of one or more particles in the sample that emit fluorescence light for the different time points.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an image of the sample includes: generating a plurality of images of the sample corresponding to different timepoints; determining whether each of a plurality of emitters in the images of the sample are active or non-active at the different time points.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying locations of the plurality of emitters in an image corresponding to an initial timepoint; and determining whether each of the plurality of emitters at its identified location is active or non-active in images corresponding to timepoints after the initial timepoint.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated image is a two-dimensional image.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated image is a three-dimensional image.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected fluorescence emission light from the sample is emitted in response to a two-photon excitation process.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein providing light in each of the plurality of beams to different locations within the sample includes: providing the light in the form of a line focus; and scanning the light in the line focus across a focal plane of the sample.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an image of the sample based on the detected fluorescence emission light and based on the raster scan image includes generating the image using an optimization algorithm to determine a brightness of segments in the sample.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the raster scan image is acquired based on light provided to the sample in at least one of the plurality of different light beam paths.
18. A microscope for imaging a sample, the microscope comprising: a first light source configured for generating first excitation light; raster scanning optical elements configured for raster scanning the first excitation light through a volume of the sample; a first detector configured for detecting light emitted from the sample in response to the raster scanned first excitation light; a second light source configured for generating second excitation light; beam handling optics configured for: directing the second excitation light into a plurality of different light beam paths at different times, providing the light in each of the plurality of light beam paths through an objective lens to the sample, and providing light in each of the plurality of beams to different locations within the sample; a second detector configured for detecting fluorescence emission light from the sample in response to excitation by the second excitation light in each of the plurality of light beam paths, wherein the fluorescence emission light detected in response to the second excitation light in different ones of the plurality of light beam paths corresponds to fluorescence intensity projections of the sample in which light is emitted from different locations within the sample at the same time; and a processor configured for generating an image of the sample based on the detected light emitted from the sample in response to the raster scanned first excitation light and based on the detected fluorescence emission light emitted from the sample in response to excitation by the second excitation light in each of the plurality of light beam paths, wherein the generating includes using the raster scan image to determine spatial information about activity components of the sample.
19. The microscope of claim 18, wherein light in different ones of the plurality of light beam paths is provided to the sample to form a two-dimensional or three-dimensional intensity pattern in the sample with low mutual coherence in the sample between light in different ones of the plurality of light beam paths.
20. The microscope of claim 18, wherein light in different light beam paths is provided to the sample at different angles with respect to a reference direction in a focal plane of the objective lens.
21. The microscope of claim 18, wherein light in each of the plurality of light beam paths is provided to the sample to form a line focus at a different angle with respect to a reference orientation.
22. The microscope of claim 21, wherein a width of the line of light is specified by a resolution limit of an objective lens through which the line of light is provided to the sample.
23. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the beam handling optics include: an electro-optical modulator configured for switching the light from the second light source into two different intermediate paths; a first mechanical scanner configured for switching light in an intermediate path into different ones of the plurality of light beams; and a second mechanical scanner configured for switching light in the other intermediate path into different ones of the plurality of light beams.
24. The microscope of claim 18, further comprising a spatial light modulator configured to provide a programmable subset of the beam onto the light beam path that enters the sample.
25. The microscope of claim 24, wherein the programmable subset of the beam that enters the sample corresponds to one or more locations of regions of interest in the sample.
26. The microscope of claim 18, wherein generating an image of the sample includes generating a plurality of three-dimensional images of the sample corresponding to different timepoints and labeling space-time coordinates of one or more particles in the sample that emit fluorescence light for the different time points.
27. The microscope of claim 18, wherein generating an image of the sample includes: generating a plurality of images of the sample corresponding to different timepoints; determining whether each of a plurality of emitters in the images of the sample are active or non-active at the different time points.
28. The microscope of claim 27, wherein the processor is further configured for: identifying locations of the plurality of emitters in an image corresponding to an initial timepoint; and determining whether a brightness of a plurality of emitters in images corresponding to timepoints after the initial timepoint.
29. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the generated image is a two-dimensional image.
30. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the generated image is a three-dimensional image.
31. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the detected fluorescence emission light from the sample is emitted in response to a two-photon excitation process.
32. The microscope of claim 18, wherein providing light in each of the plurality of beams to different locations within the sample includes: providing the light in the form of a line focus; and scanning the light in the line focus across a focal plane of the sample.
33. The microscope of claim 18, wherein generating an image of the sample based on the detected fluorescence emission light and based on the raster scan image includes generating the image using an optimization algorithm to determine a brightness of segments in the sample.
34. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the raster scan image is acquired based on light provided to the sample in at least one of the plurality of different light beam paths.
35. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the first and second detectors are different.
36. The microscope of claim 18, wherein the first and second light sources are different.
</claims>
</document>
