<document>

<filing_date>
2015-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INMAR ANALYTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ross, John
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838517
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for providing a promotion at a point-of-sale terminal based upon an inaudible promotion signal and related methods
</title>

<abstract>
A system may include wireless broadcast receivers and a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal causing each of the wireless broadcast receivers to generate an audible advertisement and an inaudible promotion signal associated therewith. The inaudible promotion signal may be for promotion subscribers. The system may also include a digital promotions network (DPN) device, and a mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber and that may include a microphone, a wireless transceiver, and a processor cooperating with the microphone and the wireless transceiver to wirelessly send notification of the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from a proximate one the wireless broadcast receivers. The DPN device may provide, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with the promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed is:
1. A system comprising: a plurality of wireless broadcast receivers; a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal causing each of the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers to generate an audible advertisement and an inaudible promotion signal associated therewith, the promotion signal being for a plurality of promotion subscribers; a digital promotions network (DPN) device; and a mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber and comprising a microphone, a wireless transceiver, and a processor cooperating with said microphone and said wireless transceiver to wirelessly send notification of the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from a proximate one of said plurality of wireless broadcast receivers; said DPN device configured to provide, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with the promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal for redemption at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said mobile wireless communications device comprises a memory coupled to said processor; and wherein said DPN device is configured to send a promotion record for storage on said memory.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said DPN device is configured to store a promotion record.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein said mobile wireless communications device comprises a display coupled to said processor; and wherein said processor is configured to display a promotion record on said display.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein said processor cooperates with said wireless transceiver to wirelessly send metadata relating to the inaudible promotion signal to said DPN device.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a timestamp, a subscriber location, and an identification of the audible advertisement.
7. The system of claim 5 wherein said DPN device is configured to provide external access to at least some of the metadata.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein said wireless broadcast station is configured to broadcast the wireless signal to cause a given wireless broadcast receiver to generate the audible advertisement and inaudible promotion signal at a same time.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein said wireless broadcast station comprises one of an FM radio station, an AM station, and a TV station.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said wireless transceiver comprises a cellular transceiver.
11. A digital promotions network (DPN) device comprising: a memory and a processor coupled thereto, said processor configured to receive a notification of an inaudible promotion signal for a plurality of promotion subscribers from a mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber, the mobile wireless communications device wirelessly sending the notification of the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from a proximate one of a plurality of wireless broadcast receivers, the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers each generating an audible advertisement and the inaudible promotion signal associated therewith caused by a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal, and provide, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with a promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal for redemption at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal.
12. The DPN device of claim 11 wherein said processor is configured to send a promotion record for storage on the mobile wireless communications device.
13. The DPN device of claim 11 wherein said processor is configured to store a promotion record in said memory.
14. The DPN device of claim 11 wherein said processor is configured to wirelessly receive metadata relating to the inaudible promotion signal from the mobile wireless communications device.
15. The DPN device of claim 14 wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a timestamp, a subscriber location, and an identification of the audible advertisement.
16. The DPN device of claim 14 wherein said processor is configured to provide external access to at least some of the metadata.
17. A mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber of a plurality thereof and comprising: a microphone; a display; at least one input device; a wireless transceiver; and a processor cooperating with said microphone, said wireless transceiver, said display, and said at least one input device to wirelessly receive an inaudible promotion signal generated by a proximate one of a plurality of wireless broadcast receivers, each of the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers generating an audible advertisement and an inaudible promotion signal associated therewith caused by a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal, the inaudible promotion signal being for the plurality of promotion subscribers, and wirelessly send notification of the inaudible promotion signal to a digital promotions network (DPN) device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from the proximate one of the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers so that the DPN provides, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with a promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal for redemption at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal, display the promotion on said display, permit the given subscriber to accept the promotion via said at least one input device, and when the given subscriber accepts the promotion, add the promotion to a digital wallet associated with the given subscriber.
18. The mobile wireless communications device of claim 17 further comprising a memory coupled to said processor; and wherein the DPN device is configured to send the promotion for storage on said memory.
19. The mobile wireless communications device of claim 17 wherein said processor cooperates with said wireless transceiver to wirelessly send metadata relating to the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device.
20. The mobile wireless communications device of claim 19 wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a timestamp, a subscriber location, and an identification of the audible advertisement.
21. The mobile wireless communications device of claim 17 wherein said wireless transceiver comprises a cellular transceiver.
22. A method of providing a promotion associated with an inaudible promotion signal for redemption at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal, the method comprising: receiving, via a processor of a digital promotion network (DPN) device, a notification of the inaudible promotion signal for a plurality of promotion subscribers from a mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber, the mobile wireless communications device wirelessly sending the notification of the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from a proximate one of a plurality of wireless broadcast receivers, the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers each generating an audible advertisement and the inaudible promotion signal associated therewith caused by a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal; and providing, via the processor, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with the promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal at the point-of-sale (POS) terminal.
23. The method of claim 22 further comprising sending, using the processor, a promotion record for storage on the mobile wireless communications device.
24. The method of claim 22 further comprising using the processor to store a promotion record in a memory coupled to the processor.
25. The method of claim 22 further comprising wirelessly receiving metadata relating to the inaudible promotion signal from the mobile wireless communications device.
26. The method of claim 25 wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a timestamp, a subscriber location, and an identification of the audible advertisement.
27. The method of claim 25 further comprising providing external access to at least some of the metadata.
28. A method of processing a promotion using a mobile wireless communications device carried by a given subscriber of a plurality thereof, the method comprising: using a processor cooperating with a microphone, a display, at least one input device, and a wireless transceiver to wirelessly receive an inaudible promotion signal generated by a proximate one of a plurality of wireless broadcast receivers, each of the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers generating an audible advertisement and an inaudible promotion signal associated therewith caused by a wireless broadcast station configured to broadcast a wireless signal, the inaudible promotion signal being for the plurality of promotion subscribers, wirelessly send notification of the inaudible promotion signal to a digital promotions network (DPN) device based upon receiving the inaudible promotion signal from the proximate one of the plurality of wireless broadcast receivers so that the DPN device provides, after receiving the notification of the inaudible promotion signal, the given subscriber with the promotion associated with the inaudible promotion signal for redemption at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal, display the promotion on the display, permit the given subscriber to accept the promotion via the at least one input device, and when the given subscriber accepts the promotion, add the promotion to a digital wallet associated with the given subscriber.
29. The method of claim 28 further comprising using the processor of said mobile wireless communications device to receive a promotion record from the DPN device and store the promotion in a memory coupled to the processor.
30. The method of claim 28 further comprising using the processor to cooperate with the wireless transceiver to wirelessly send metadata relating to the inaudible promotion signal to the DPN device.
31. The method of claim 30 wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a timestamp, a subscriber location, and an identification of the audible advertisement.
32. The method of claim 28 wherein the wireless transceiver comprises a cellular transceiver.
</claims>
</document>
