<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/22,G06F16/242,G06F16/2458,G06F16/25
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEWITT, JAMES
HILDEBRAND, DEAN
BHOSALE, NILESH
DAIN, JOSEPH
BHAGWAT, DEEPAVALI
SAWDON, WAYNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65000154
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Custom metadata extraction across a heterogeneous storage system environment
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for triggering custom metadata extraction by a processor. Information may be extracted from an event so as to access data across a plurality of heterogeneous storage systems. Metadata may be extracted from the data that is accessed such that the metadata is assigned as custom metadata and indexed into a centralized search index, wherein the custom metadata is correlated to existing metadata associated with the data in the centralized search index.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, by a processor, for triggering custom metadata extraction, comprising: extracting a plurality of information from an event so as to access data across a plurality of heterogeneous storage systems, wherein the plurality of information extracted from the event comprises source system access methods of the data including discerning applicable file names and file paths, and object names and object buckets or containers of the data; in response to extracting the plurality of information, accessing the data at the plurality of heterogeneous storage systems according to the extracted plurality of information; extracting metadata from the data that is accessed such that the metadata is assigned as custom metadata and indexed into a centralized search index, wherein the custom metadata is correlated to existing metadata associated with the data in the centralized search index; and tagging the data with the custom metadata according to selected criteria configured by a user, wherein the custom metadata includes directives to automatically resolve an applicable username and password of the user from an authentication lookup required to access the data.
2. The method of claim 1, further including receiving the events containing the metadata into the centralized search index.
3. The method of claim 1, further including performing a deep data inspection after extracting the plurality of information from the event.
4. The method of claim 1, further including: placing the events onto an extraction queue in the centralized search index; and polling the extraction queue to determine one or more actions to perform relating to extracting the metadata.
5. The method of claim 1, further including appending the custom metadata to the existing metadata.
6. The method of claim 1, further including tagging the data according to the selected criteria for extracting the metadata.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a representational state transfer (REST) application protocol interface (API) is used to tag the custom metadata.
8. The method of claim 1, further including assigning values of the extracted metadata as the custom metadata.
9. The method of claim 1, further including identifying the metadata to be extracted by performing a natural language processing (NLP) operation.
10. A system for triggering custom metadata extraction, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: extract a plurality of information from an event so as to access data across a plurality of heterogeneous storage systems, wherein the plurality of information extracted from the event comprises source system access methods of the data including discerning applicable file names and file paths, and object names and object buckets or containers of the data; in response to extracting the plurality of information, access the data at the plurality of heterogeneous storage systems according to the extracted plurality of information; extract metadata from the data that is accessed such that the metadata is assigned as custom metadata and indexed into a centralized search index, wherein the custom metadata is correlated to existing metadata associated with the data in the centralized search index; and tag the data with the custom metadata according to selected criteria configured by a user, wherein the custom metadata includes directives to automatically resolve an applicable username and password of the user from an authentication lookup required to access the data.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions receive the events containing the metadata into the centralized search index.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions perform a deep data inspection after extracting the plurality of information from the event.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions: place the events onto an extraction queue in the centralized search index; and poll the extraction queue to determine one or more actions to perform relating to extracting the metadata.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions append the custom metadata to the existing metadata.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions tag the data according to the selected criteria for extracting the metadata.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein a representational state transfer (REST) application protocol interface (API) is used to tag the custom metadata.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions assign values of the extracted metadata as the custom metadata.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the executable instructions identify the metadata to be extracted by performing a natural language processing (NLP) operation.
19. A computer program product for triggering custom metadata extraction by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that extracts a plurality of information from an event so as to access data across a plurality of heterogeneous storage systems, wherein the plurality of information extracted from the event comprises source system access methods of the data including discerning applicable file names and file paths, and object names and object buckets or containers of the data; an executable portion that, in response to extracting the plurality of information, accesses the data at the plurality of heterogeneous storage systems according to the extracted plurality of information; an executable portion that extracts metadata from the data that is accessed such that the metadata is assigned as custom metadata and indexed into a centralized search index, wherein the custom metadata is correlated to existing metadata associated with the data in the centralized search index; and an executable portion that tags the data with the custom metadata according to selected criteria configured by a user, wherein the custom metadata includes directives to automatically resolve an applicable username and password of the user from an authentication lookup required to access the data.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that performs a deep data inspection after extracting the plurality of information from the event.
21. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that: receives the events containing the metadata into the centralized search index; places the events onto an extraction queue in the centralized search index; and polls the extraction queue to determine one or more actions to perform relating to extracting the metadata.
22. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that appends the custom metadata to the existing metadata.
23. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that tags the data according to the selected criteria for extracting the metadata.
24. The computer program product of claim 19, wherein a representational state transfer (REST) application protocol interface (API) is used to tag the custom metadata.
25. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that assigns values of the extracted metadata as the custom metadata.
26. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that identifies the metadata to be extracted by performing a natural language processing (NLP) operation.
</claims>
</document>
