<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/66,G06T17/05,G11B27/34,H04N21/44,H04N21/442,H04N9/80,H04N9/87
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOSTICK, JAMES E.
GANCI, JR., JOHN M.
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
KEEN, MARTIN G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65361553
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Visualizing focus objects from video data on electronic maps
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method includes receiving video data of objects in a geographic area. The video data includes location data indicating a location of the geographic area, focus data indicating areas of the video data focused on while viewing the video data. The method also includes identifying, using at least the focus data, a first object focused on while viewing the video data. The method then includes extracting an image of the first object from the video data. The method additionally includes determining, using the image and the location data, a second object corresponding to the first objection on a visual data map of the geographic area. The method further includes rendering an indicator of the first object at the second object in visual data map.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving video data of objects in a geographic area, the video data comprising: location data indicating a location of the geographic area, wherein the location data includes GPS coordinates that are associated with the location of the geographic area; and focus data indicating areas of the video data focused on while viewing the video data; identifying, using at least the focus data, a first object focused on while viewing the video data, wherein identifying the first object focused on comprises: extracting, using the focus data, an image of an area focused on while viewing the video data; and identifying the first object in the image of the area focused on, wherein identifying the first object in the image comprises: training an image classification algorithm using a set of images of objects; and executing the trained image classification algorithm using the image of the area focused on to identify the first object; extracting an image of the first object from the video data; determining, using the image and the location data, a second object corresponding to the first object on a visual data map of the geographic area; and rendering an indicator of the first object at the second object in the visual data map.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the focus data is generated by an eye tracking system while viewing the video data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the visual data map is at least one of a three dimensional map of the geographic area and a rendering of a street level view of the geographic area.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the video data includes data of at least two videos and the method further comprise generating, using the second object and the location data, a database of focused on objects.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving an identifier of a focused on object stored in the database; and rendering, in response to receiving the identifier, indicators on the focused on object in the visual data map.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the indicators indicate a number of times objects in the video data corresponding to the second focused on object were focused on while viewing the video data.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the focus data indicates areas of the at least two videos a user focused on while viewing the at least two videos, and the rendering further comprises: identifying, in the database, a set of object focused on by the user; and rendering indicators on the set of objects in the visual data map.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein the focus data indicates areas of the at least two videos at least two users focused on while viewing the at least two videos, and the rendering further comprises: identifying, in the database, a set of object focused on by a subset of the at least two users; and rendering indicators on the set of objects in the visual data map.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the subset of at least two users is a majority of the at least two users.
10. A system to identify and visualize areas of interest on an electronic map based on video playback watch patterns, the system configured to: receive video data of objects in a geographic area, the video data comprising: location data indicating a location of the geographic area, wherein the location data includes GPS coordinates that are associated with the location of the geographic area; and focus data indicating areas of the video data focused on while viewing the video data; identify, using at least the focus data, a first object focused on while viewing the video data; extract an image of the first object from the video data; determine, using the image and the location data, a second object corresponding to the first object on a visual data map of the geographic area, wherein the visual data map corresponds to the location data received from the video data of the objects in the geographic area; and render an indicator of the first object at the second object in the visual data map.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the system if further configured to identify the first object focused on by executing a set of operations to: extract, using the focus data, an image of an area focused on while viewing the video data; and identify the first object in the image of the area focused on.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the system is further configured to identify the first object in the image by executing a set of operations to: train an image classification algorithm using a set of images of objects; and execute the trained image classification algorithm using the image of the area on to identify the first object.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the focus data is generated by an eye tracking system while viewing the video data.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the visual data map is at least one of a three dimensional map of the geographic area and a rendering of a street level view of the geographic area.
15. A computer program product for identifying and visualizing areas of interest on an electronic map based on video playback watch patterns, the computer program product including a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processing circuit to cause the processing circuit to perform a method comprising: receiving video data of objects in a geographic area, the video data comprising: location data indicating a location of the geographic area, wherein the location data includes GPS coordinates that are associated with the location of the geographic area; and focus data indicating areas of the video data focused on while viewing the video data; identifying, using at least the focus data, a first object focused on while viewing the video data; extracting an image of the first object from the video data; determining, using the image and the location data, a second object corresponding to the first object on a visual data map of the geographic area, wherein the visual data map corresponds to the location data received from the video data of the objects in the geographic area; and rendering an indicator of the first object at the second object in the visual data map.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein identifying the first object focused on comprises: extracting, using the focus data, an image of an area focused on while viewing the video data; and identifying the first object in the image of the area focused on.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein identifying the first object in the image comprises: training an image classification algorithm using a set of images of objects; and executing the trained image classification algorithm using the image of the area on to identify the first object.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the focus data is generated by an eye tracking system while viewing the video data.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the indicator of the first object at the second object in the visual data map comprises an advertisement.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the GPS coordinates that are associated with the location of the geographic area are generated by a camera that captured the video data.
</claims>
</document>
