<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/279,G06T11/00,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOVE GOOD COLOR
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARRINGTON, PATRICK
GUIDO-CLARK, LAURA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458901
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for color selection and auditing
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for providing color selection assistance and color auditing of an image. The continuous spectrum of colors can be narrowed to a subset of palettes of discrete colors, referred to as temperaments and environments, that facilitate selection of colors that provide a purposeful outcome. Each temperament/environment is associated with a plurality of different discrete colors and a plurality of different descriptive words, including but not limited to identity words and emotive words. The system and method enables the user to objectively transform a desired physiological response into a discrete set of colors from which to make a color selection where the presented colors are related to the desired physiological response or to audit an image to convert the palette of colors in the image to their associated temperaments.
</abstract>

<claims>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A method of color selection, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining an organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of a plurality of different temperaments, wherein each of the plurality of different temperaments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette; creating correlations between descriptive words and the plurality of different temperaments by: processing a corpus of images and associated text along with pre-determined correlations between the plurality of different temperaments and the plurality of different palettes of colors; and processing the associated text to identify descriptive words and correlating those descriptive words with a temperament based on the similarity or dissimilarity between colors from the corpus of images and colors from the palette of interrelated colors with that temperament; correlating a plurality of physiological responses with the plurality of different temperaments based on the correlations between descriptive words and the plurality of different temperaments; receiving a desired physiological response from a user; identifying one or more of the plurality of different temperaments based on (1) correlations between the plurality of physiological responses and the plurality of different temperaments and (2) the desired physiological response; and providing, to the user, the identified one or more of the plurality of different temperaments.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein correlating the plurality of physiological responses further comprises the step of creating statistical associations based on processing a corpus of images and associated text.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein providing, to the user, the identified one or more of the plurality of different temperaments further comprises the step of facilitating selection of one or more colors that provide the desired physiological response.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein correlating the plurality of physiological responses with the plurality of different temperaments further comprises the step of creating statistical associations based on survey data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: obtaining the organization of discrete spectral colors further comprises the step of obtaining the organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of the plurality of different temperaments or a plurality of different environments, wherein each of the plurality of different environments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette; and correlating a plurality of physiological responses further comprises the step of correlating a plurality of physiological responses with the plurality of different environments.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising the step of identifying one or more of the plurality of different environments based on (1) correlations between the plurality of physiological responses and the plurality of different environments and (2) the desired physiological response.
7. A method of auditing color of an image, the method comprising the steps of: obtaining an organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of a plurality of different temperaments, wherein each of the plurality of different temperaments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette; receiving an image from a user; selecting one or more colors based on one or more pixels of the image; comparing discrete spectral colors in the plurality of different palettes interrelated by at least one of the plurality of different temperaments to the selected one or more colors; identifying one or more of the plurality of different temperaments based on the comparison; and providing, to the user, the identified one or more of the plurality of different temperaments, along with a percentage of each temperament in the image based on the percentage of color values of pixels in the image.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of correlating a plurality of physiological responses with the plurality of different temperaments by creating statistical associations based on survey data.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising the step of correlating a plurality of physiological responses with the plurality of different temperaments by creating statistical associations based on processing a corpus of images and associated text.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein: obtaining the organization of discrete spectral colors further comprises the step of obtaining the organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of the plurality of different temperaments or a plurality of different environments, wherein each of the plurality of different environments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising the step of identifying one or more of the plurality of different environments based on the comparison.
12. A method comprising the steps of: obtaining an organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of a plurality of different temperaments, wherein each of the plurality of different temperaments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette; receiving an image from a user for temperament auditing; processing the image into a plurality of pixels; determining a set of one or more common colors in the image by analyzing the plurality of pixels; determining which temperament colors are closest to the set of one or more common colors in the image by a distance calculation; identifying one or more of the plurality of different temperaments based on the temperament colors that are closest to the set of one or more common colors in the image; and providing, to the user, the identified one or more of the plurality of different temperaments.
13. A method comprising the steps of: obtaining an organization of discrete spectral colors into a plurality of different palettes where the discrete spectral colors for each palette are interrelated by at least one of a plurality of different temperaments, wherein each of the plurality of different temperaments are indicative of the related characteristics among the discrete spectral colors for that palette; receiving an image from a user for temperament auditing; identifying one or more of the plurality of different temperaments based on the image; and providing, to the user, the identified one or more of the plurality of different temperaments, along with a percentage of each temperament in the image.
</claims>
</document>
