<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L13/047,G10L15/26,G10L21/00,G10L21/003,G10L25/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
Moore Intellectual Property Law, PLLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
VISSER, ERIK
KIM, LAE-HOON
GUO, YINYI
ZHANG, SHUHUA
MOON, SUNKUK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63105387
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced speech generation
</title>

<abstract>
In a particular aspect, a speech generator includes a signal input configured to receive a first audio signal. The speech generator also includes at least one speech signal processor configured to generate a second audio signal based on information associated with the first audio signal and based further on automatic speech recognition (ASR) data associated with the first audio signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A speech generator comprising: a signal input configured to receive a first audio signal; and at least one speech signal processor configured to generate a second audio signal based on information associated with the first audio signal and based further on automatic speech recognition (ASR) data associated with the first audio signal.
2. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein the at least one speech signal processor is further configured to generate or initiate generation of an enhanced speech output based on the ASR data and based on one or more parameters associated with the information.
3. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein: the signal input, the first audio signal, the second audio signal, and the information correspond, respectively, to an audio sensor, an input audio signal, a synthesized audio signal, and one or more parameters, the synthesized audio signal is generated based on training data associated with a user, one or more previous synthesized audio frames, or a combination thereof, and the training data is distinct from the one or more parameters.
4. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein: the information includes one or more parameters generated based on at least a portion of the first audio signal, and the at least one speech signal processor includes a cloud based device.
5. The speech generator of claim 1, further comprising one or both of: a speech state estimator configured to generate speech state parameters indicative of whether one or more portions of the first audio signal correspond to speech or non-speech, energy levels associated with the first audio signal, or a combination thereof; and a speech recognizer configured to perform one or more ASR operations based on the first audio signal to generate the ASR data, the ASR data indicating a transcript of input speech associated with the first audio signal.
6. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein the information includes: temporal parameters indicative of a tempo associated with speech represented by the first audio signal, accented sounds associated with the speech, or a combination thereof; emotional cue parameters indicative of emotional levels associated with the speech, modulation levels associated with the speech, or a combination thereof; or pitch parameters indicative of pitch associated with the speech.
7. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein the at least one speech signal processor is further configured to produce or enable production of an enhanced audio signal based on one or more of: a filtered audio signal associated with the first audio signal; the second audio signal; a confidence score associated with the ASR data; or a similarity between the filtered audio signal and the second audio signal.
8. The speech generator of claim 7, wherein the at least one speech signal processor is further configured to produce or enable production of an enhanced audio signal based on a first quality score associated with the filtered audio signal and a second quality score associated with the second audio signal.
9. The speech generator of claim 1, wherein the at least one speech signal processor is further configured to produce or enable production of an enhanced speech signal at a speaker.
10. The speech generator of claim 1, further comprising a transmitter configured to transmit the second audio signal, wherein the signal input, the at least one speech signal processor, and the transmitter are integrated into an electronic device.
11. A method comprising: receiving a first audio signal at one or more speech signal processors; and obtaining a second audio signal based on information associated with the first audio signal and based further on automatic speech recognition (ASR) data associated with the first audio signal.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the information includes one or more parameters generated based on at least a portion of the first audio signal, and wherein obtaining the second audio signal comprises generating a synthesized audio signal based on the ASR data and the one or more parameters.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising, at the one or more speech signal processors, performing or initiating performance of: receiving the first audio signal and the information from a mobile device via a network; and transmitting the ASR data, the second audio signal, or both to the mobile device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein obtaining the second audio signal includes generating a synthesized audio signal based on the ASR data and one or more parameters associated with the information, and wherein the one or more parameters include speech state parameters, temporal parameters, emotional cue parameters, pitch parameters, or a combination thereof.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising outputting an enhanced speech signal based in part on a confidence score associated with the ASR data and a similarity score that indicates a similarity between a filtered audio signal and a synthesized audio signal, the filtered audio signal generated by performing a filtering operation on the first audio signal, and the synthesized audio signal included in the second audio signal.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the synthesized audio signal is output as the enhanced speech signal responsive to the confidence score exceeding a first threshold, the similarity score exceeding a second threshold, and a first quality score associated with the synthesized audio signal exceeding a second quality score associated with the filtered audio signal.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the filtered audio signal is output as the enhanced speech signal responsive to the confidence score exceeding a first threshold, the similarity score exceeding a second threshold, and a first quality score associated with the synthesized audio signal failing to exceed a second quality score associated with the filtered audio signal.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the filtered audio signal is output as the enhanced speech signal responsive to the confidence score failing to exceed a threshold or responsive to the confidence score exceeding a first threshold and the similarity score failing to exceed a second threshold.
19. A speech generator comprising: means for receiving a first audio signal; and means for generating a second audio signal based on information associated with the first audio signal and based further on automatic speech recognition (ASR) data associated with the first audio signal.
20. The speech generator of claim 19, wherein the means for generating includes a cloud based device, wherein the information includes one or more parameters generated based on estimated speech states of the first audio signal, and wherein the ASR data indicates a transcript of input speech associated with the first audio signal.
</claims>
</document>
