<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-08-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L25/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERINT SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEIN, RON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52428437
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Voice activity detection using a soft decision mechanism
</title>

<abstract>
Voice activity detection (VAD) is an enabling technology for a variety of speech based applications. Herein disclosed is a robust VAD algorithm that is also language independent. Rather than classifying short segments of the audio as either "speech" or "silence", the VAD as disclosed herein employees a soft-decision mechanism. The VAD outputs a speech-presence probability, which is based on a variety of characteristics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data; wherein the selected threshold for a frame following a non-speech frame is a maximum activity probability, which the moving average must exceed for the state of the frame to be determined as speech.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein each non-speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive non-speech frames bordered in the sequence by speech frames.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: identifying speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and activating subsequent processing of the speech segments in the audio data.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein each speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive speech frames bordered in the sequence by non-speech frames.
5. A method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data wherein the selected threshold for a frame following a speech frame is a minimum activity probability, which the moving average must be below for the state of the frame to be determined as non-speech.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein each non-speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive non-speech frames bordered in the sequence by speech frames.
7. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: identifying speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and activating subsequent processing of the speech segments in the audio data.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein each speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive speech frames bordered in the sequence by non-speech frames.
9. A method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data wherein the activity probability for a frame is a combination of a plurality of different speech probabilities computed using the audio data of the frame wherein the plurality of different speech probabilities comprises: an overall energy speech probability based on an overall the energy of the audio data; a band energy speech probability based on an energy of the audio data contained within one or more spectral bands; a spectral peakiness speech probability based on an energy of the audio data that is concentrated in one or more spectral peaks; and a residual energy speech probability based on a residual energy resulting from a linear prediction of the audio data.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the overall energy speech probability, the band energy speech probability, the spectral peakiness probability and the residual energy speech probability each have a value between 0 and 1, wherein 0 corresponds to non-speech and 1 corresponds to speech.
11. The method according to claim 10, wherein the activity probability is the square root of the band energy speech probability multiplied by the largest of the overall energy probability, the spectral peakiness probability, and the residual energy probability.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data; wherein the selected threshold for a frame following a non-speech frame is a maximum activity probability, which the moving average must exceed for the state of the frame to be determined as speech.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 12, wherein each non-speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive non-speech frames bordered in the sequence by speech frames.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 12, further comprising: identifying speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and activating subsequent processing of the speech segments in the audio data.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 14, wherein each speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive speech frames bordered in the sequence by non-speech frames.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data; wherein the selected threshold for a frame following a speech frame is a minimum activity probability, which the moving average must be below for the state of the frame to be determined as non-speech.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, wherein each non-speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive non-speech frames bordered in the sequence by speech frames.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 16, further comprising: identifying speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and activating subsequent processing of the speech segments in the audio data.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 18, wherein each speech segment corresponds to audio data in one or more consecutive speech frames bordered in the sequence by non-speech frames.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium containing computer readable instructions that when executed by a processor of a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method for identifying non-speech segments in audio data to avoid processing the non-speech segments, the method comprising: obtaining audio data; segmenting the audio data into a sequence of frames; calculating an activity probability for each frame in the sequence, wherein the activity probability corresponds to a probability that the frame contains speech; determining, frame-by-frame, a state of each frame in the sequence as either speech or non-speech by comparing a moving average of activity probabilities for a group of frames, including the frame, to a selected threshold, wherein the selected threshold for a particular frame depends on the determined state of a frame proceeding the particular frame in the sequence; identifying non-speech segments in the audio data based upon the determined states of the frames; and deactivating subsequent processing of the non-speech segments in the audio data; wherein the activity probability for a frame is a combination of a plurality of different speech probabilities computed using the audio data of the frame and wherein the plurality of different speech probabilities comprises: an overall energy speech probability based on an overall the energy of the audio data; a band energy speech probability based on an energy of the audio data contained within one or more spectral bands; a spectral peakiness speech probability based on an energy of the audio data that is concentrated in one or more spectral peaks; and a residual energy speech probability based on a residual energy resulting from a linear prediction of the audio data.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 20, wherein the overall energy speech probability, the band energy speech probability, the spectral peakiness probability and the residual energy speech probability each have a value between 0 and 1, wherein 0 corresponds to non-speech and 1 corresponds to speech.
22. The non-transitory computer readable medium according to claim 21, wherein the activity probability is the square root of the band energy speech probability multiplied by the largest of the overall energy probability, the spectral peakiness probability, and the residual energy probability.
</claims>
</document>
