<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/42,G06T7/00,G06T7/246,H04N5/44,H04N5/445,H04N7/01,H04N7/18,H04N9/64
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARRAL, JOËLLE K.
BAUER, GERMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69645420
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for comparing videos of surgical techniques
</title>

<abstract>
A method for comparing videos of a surgical procedure is disclosed. The method comprising selecting a plurality of videos from a surgical video database. Each of the plurality of videos including video data of a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps. The method further including identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos. The method also including warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for comparing videos of a surgical procedure, comprising: selecting a plurality of videos from a surgical video database, each including video data of a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps; identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, including: receiving the first surgical step in a first video included in the plurality of videos; and selecting, using machine learning logic, the first surgical step in other videos included in the plurality of videos, and wherein the first video is not included in the other videos; warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; and displaying the first video segment of at least a first video and a second video included in the plurality of videos in parallel, wherein the dimension of the first video segment is standardized by warping at least one of the first video or the second video.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the dimension includes a temporal dimension that includes a duration of the first video segment, and wherein warping the first video segment further includes: adjusting the duration of the first video segment to provide an equal runtime of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each of the plurality of videos includes a first frame rate that corresponds to real-time playback, wherein adjusting the duration of the first video segment includes assigning a second frame rate to the first video segment, and wherein the first frame rate is different than the second frame rate.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the dimension includes a spatial dimension that corresponds to a resolution of the first video segment, wherein warping the first video segment further includes: identifying an object included in the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; and adjusting the resolution of the first video segment to scale a size of the object to a reference in each of the plurality of videos.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein identifying the object is determined by machine learning logic.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the object includes at least one of an anatomical part or a surgical tool.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of videos includes a first video, and wherein the reference is a measurement of the object included in the first video.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a template to compare to the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, wherein the template is a typical technique for the first surgical step that is determined by the machine learning logic that analyzes the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein generating the template includes: identifying at least one of a duration, an object, or a motion included in the first video segment of the plurality videos to determine the typical technique for the first surgical step.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining whether the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos deviates from the template; and identifying a first subset of videos included in the plurality of videos, wherein the first video segment included in each of the first subset of videos deviates from the template.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: modifying the first subset of videos by adjusting at least one of a first color space of the first video segment or a second color space of other video segments included in each of the first subset of videos, wherein the other video segments are different than the first video segment, and wherein the first color space is different than the second color space.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: generating output data to display the plurality of videos in parallel within a user interface, wherein the user interface includes a navigation bar to visually indicate whether the first video segment of a first video included in the plurality of videos deviates from the template.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the first surgical step includes a user selecting the first surgical step in the first video included in the plurality of videos.
14. A non-transitory machine readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: selecting a plurality of videos from a surgical video database, each including video data of a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps; identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, including: receiving the first surgical step in a first video included in the plurality of videos; and selecting, using machine learning logic, the first surgical step in other videos included in the plurality of videos, and wherein the first video is not included in the other videos; warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; displaying the first video segment of at least a first video and a second video included in the plurality of videos in parallel, wherein the dimension of the first video segment is standardized by warping at least one of the first video or the second video.
15. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the dimension includes a temporal dimension that includes a duration of the first video segment, and wherein warping the first video segment further includes: adjusting the duration of the first video segment to provide an equal runtime of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
16. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein each of the plurality of videos includes a first frame rate that corresponds to real-time playback, wherein adjusting the duration of the first video segment includes assigning a second frame rate to the first video segment, and wherein the first frame rate is different than the second frame rate.
17. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the dimension includes a spatial dimension that corresponds to a resolution of the first video segment, wherein warping the first video segment further includes: identifying an object included in the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; and adjusting the resolution of the first video segment to scale a size of the object to a reference in each of the plurality of videos.
18. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein identifying the object is determined by the machine learning logic.
19. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the object includes at least one of an anatomical part or a surgical tool.
20. The non-transitory machine readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the plurality of videos includes a first video, and wherein the reference is a measurement of the object included in the first video.
21. A system for comparing videos of a surgical procedure, the system comprising: an image sensor coupled to record video data of surgical procedures; and a controller coupled to the image sensor to receive the video data and generate a surgical video database based on the video data, wherein the controller includes logic that when executed by the controller causes the controller to perform operations including: selecting a plurality of videos from the surgical video database, each including a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps; identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, including: receiving the first surgical step in a first video included in the plurality of videos; and selecting, using machine learning logic, the first surgical step in other videos included in the plurality of videos, and wherein the first video is not included in the other videos; and warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, wherein the dimension includes a spatial dimension that corresponds to a resolution of the first video segment, and wherein the warping includes: identifying an object included in the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; and adjusting the resolution of the first video segment to scale a size of the object to a reference in each of the plurality of videos.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the dimension is a temporal dimension that includes a duration of the first video segment, and wherein warping the first video segment further includes: adjusting the duration of the first video segment to provide an equal runtime of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein identifying the object is determined by the machine learning logic.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the object includes at least one of an anatomical part or a surgical tool, wherein the plurality of videos includes a first video, and wherein the reference is a measurement of the object included in the first video.
25. A non-transitory machine readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: selecting a plurality of videos from a surgical video database, each including video data of a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps; identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos; generating a template to compare to the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, wherein the template is representative of a typical technique for the first surgical step that is determined by machine learning logic that analyzes the first video segment in each of the plurality of video; and determining whether the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos deviates from the template; and identifying a first subset of videos included in the plurality of videos, wherein the first video segment included in each of the first subset of videos deviates from the template.
26. A non-transitory machine readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform a method comprising: selecting a plurality of videos from a surgical video database, each including video data of a first surgical procedure comprising a plurality of surgical steps; identifying a first surgical step included in the plurality of surgical steps within a first video segment in each of the plurality of videos, including: receiving, selected by a user, the first surgical step in a first video included in the plurality of videos; and selecting, using machine learning logic, the first surgical step in the other videos included in the plurality of videos, and wherein the first video is not included in the other videos; and warping the first video segment to standardize a dimension of the first video segment in each of the plurality of videos.
</claims>
</document>
