<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B10/25,H04B10/50,H04J14/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIAIMO, III, EDWARD C.
HASSAN, AMER AREF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68919785
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Power switching for systems implementing throughput improvements for optical communications
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed in some examples, are optical devices, systems, and machine-readable mediums that send and receive multiple streams of data across a same optical communication path (e.g., a same fiber optic fiber) with a same wavelength using different light sources transmitting at different power levels—thereby increasing the bandwidth of each optical communication path. Each light source corresponding to each stream transmits at a same frequency and on the same optical communication path using a different power level. The receiver differentiates the data for each stream by applying one or more detection models to the photon counts observed at the receiver to determine likely bit assignments for each stream.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for simultaneous transmission of multiple data streams across an optical communication path, the method comprising: identifying a power level assignment scheme, the power level assignment scheme assigning different power levels to first and second light sources; determining a current phase of the power level assignment scheme; determining a first power level of the first light source corresponding to a first stream of data to be transmitted across the optical communication path based upon the power level assignment scheme and the current phase; and transmitting data of the first stream of data at a first frequency across the optical communication path using the first light source at the first power level, the data of the first stream of data transmitted at a same time and frequency as data of a second stream of data is transmitted across the same optical communication path, the second stream of data transmitted at a second power level.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the data of the second stream of data using the second light source at the second power level.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the data of the second stream of data is transmitted by a different device than the data of the first stream of data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a priority of the first stream of data; communicating the priority to one of: a receiver of the first and second streams of data or a transmitter of the second stream of data; and wherein one of: the power level assignment scheme is identified or the current phase, is determined based at least in part upon the priority of the first stream of data and a priority of the second stream of data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a current phase is a first phase and wherein a second phase of the power level assignment scheme assigns the first power level to the second light source and the second power level to the first light source, and wherein the method further comprises: determining that the current phase has transitioned to the second phase; and transmitting data of the first stream of data using the second power level.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the power level assignment scheme comprises receiving an identifier of a selected power level assignment scheme from a receiver.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the current phase comprises determining whether a timer of a first phase has elapsed.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the current phase comprises determining whether a data counter of a first phase has exceeded a threshold count.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first power level comprises parsing the power level assignment scheme for the first power level.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the optical communication path is a fiber optic fiber.
11. A device for transmitting data across an optical communication path, the device comprising: a hardware processor configured to perform operations comprising: identifying a power level assignment scheme, the power level assignment scheme assigning different power levels to first and second light sources; determining a current phase of the power level assignment scheme; determining a first power level of the first light source corresponding to a first stream of data to be transmitted across an optical communication path based upon the power level assignment scheme and the current phase; and transmitting data of the first stream of data at a first frequency across the optical communication path using the first light source at the first power level, the data of the first stream of data transmitted at a same time and frequency as data of a second stream of data is transmitted across the same optical communication path, the second stream of data transmitted at a second power level.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting the data of the second stream of data using the second light source at the second power level.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the data of the second stream of data is transmitted by a different device than the data of the first stream of data.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a priority of the first stream of data, communicating the priority to one of: a receiver of the first and second streams of data or a transmitter of the second stream of data; and wherein one of: the power level assignment scheme is identified or the current phase, is determined based at least in part upon the priority of the first stream of data and a priority of the second stream of data.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein a current phase is a first phase and wherein a second phase of the power level assignment scheme assigns the first power level to the second light source and the second power level to the first light source, and wherein the operations further comprise: determining that the current phase has transitioned to the second phase; and transmitting data of the first stream of data using the second power level.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations of identifying the power level assignment scheme comprises receiving an identifier of a selected power level assignment scheme from a receiver.
17. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations of determining the current phase comprises determining whether a timer of a first phase has elapsed.
18. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations of determining the current phase comprises determining whether a data counter of a first phase has exceeded a threshold count.
19. The device of claim 11, wherein the operations of determining the first power level comprises parsing the power level assignment scheme for the first power level.
20. The device of claim 11, wherein the optical communication path is a fiber optic fiber.
</claims>
</document>
