<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/16,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/22,G09B19/00,G09B5/02,G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
TAN, DESNEY S.
HORVITZ, ERIC
BITRAN, HADAS
HOLMDAHL, TODD
SCHMULAND, DENNIS PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56555821
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Calculating calorie statistics based on purchases
</title>

<abstract>
A computing system for calculating a total calorie count is provided. The computing system comprising an electronic personal assistant application program executed on a client computing device, and including a purchase tracking module configured to receive notifications of purchases made for individual food items, a calorie tracking module configured to identify calorie counts associated with each purchased food item and to calculate a calorie count statistic based thereon, a calorie apportionment module configured to apportion the calorie counts of the food items to a user so that the calorie count statistic is based upon an apportioned total of the calorie counts of the food items that have been apportioned to the user; and a graphical user interface module configured to display a graphical user interface including an indicator of the calorie count statistic on a display associated with the client computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: an electronic personal assistant application program executed on a client computing device, and including: a personal assistant subsystem configured to manage a user profile for a user of the computing system, the user profile including location trends for the user determined based on global positioning system (GPS) data including a plurality of detected GPS locations of the user; a purchase tracking module configured to receive notifications of purchases made for individual food items; a calorie tracking module configured to identify calorie counts associated with each purchased food item and to calculate a calorie count statistic based on the identified calorie counts; a user health goals module configured to receive user input of a health goal from the user and determine a recommendation based upon the user inputted health goal and the calorie count statistic, the recommendation including a food item recommendation determined at least based upon availability of food items from vendors in proximity to an expected location of the user at a next meal time, the expected location of the user at the next meal time being determined based on at least the determined location trends of the user stored in the user profile for the user; and a graphical user interface module configured to display a graphical user interface including an indicator of the calorie count statistic on a display associated with the client computing device and output the recommendation on the graphical user interface.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the recommendation further includes an exercise recommendation.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the food item recommendation is further determined based upon user profile data associated with the user profile, the user profile data including nutrition behavior and patterns of the user determined based on a history of purchased food items and associated food vendors.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the notifications of purchases are electronic receipts that include a cost and a calorie count for each purchased food item.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the notifications of purchases are voice inputs from the user that indicate a purchased food item.
6. The computing system of claim 3, wherein the food item recommendation is further determined based upon user medical data included in the user profile.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the notifications of purchases are electronic receipts that include a transaction identifier; and wherein the calorie tracking module is configured to: send a calorie count request to a calorie count server including the transaction identifier, and receive from the calorie count server a list of food items associated with the transaction identifier and calorie counts for each food item in the list.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the electronic personal assistant application program further includes a calorie apportionment module configured to: apportion the calorie counts of the food items to the user by receiving a user apportionment input and apportioning the calorie counts by the user apportionment input, and apply a predetermined apportionment formula to the calorie counts, so that the calorie count statistic is based upon an apportioned total of the calorie counts of the food items that have been apportioned to the user.
9. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the user apportionment input includes a user input of a list of people that consumed the food items, each person in the list of people having respective user profiles stored on a server system associated with the electronic personal assistant application program, and wherein the calorie apportionment module is configured to apportion the calorie counts of the food items to the user based on at least health data included in respective user profiles retrieved from the server system for the list of people and the predetermined apportionment formula.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the predetermined apportionment formula is a ratio of the user's body weight compared to a total body weight of the list of people.
11. A method, comprising: at a processor of a computing system: managing a user profile for a user of the computing system, the user profile including location trends for the user determined based on global positioning system (GPS) data including a plurality of detected GPS locations of the user; receiving notifications of purchases made for individual food items, wherein the notifications of purchases includes at least one of an electronic receipt received by the computing system over a communication network or a user input received via a user input device of the computing system; identifying calorie counts associated with each purchased food item indicated in the notifications of purchases and calculating a calorie count statistic based on the identified calorie counts; receiving user input of a health goal from the user via the user input device of the computing system and determining a recommendation based upon the user inputted health goal and the calorie count statistic, the recommendation including a food item recommendation determined at least based upon availability of food items from vendors in proximity to an expected location of the user at a next meal time, the expected location of the user at the next meal time being determined based on at least the determined location trends of the user stored in the user profile for the user; and displaying a graphical user interface including an indicator of the calorie count statistic on a display associated with the computing system and outputting the recommendation on the graphical user interface.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the recommendation further includes an exercise recommendation.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the food item recommendation is further determined based upon user profile data associated with the user profile, the user profile data including nutrition behavior and patterns of the user determined based on a history of purchased food items and associated food vendors.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the food item recommendation is further determined based upon user medical data included in the user profile.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the notifications of purchases are electronic receipts that include a cost and a calorie count for each purchased food item.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the notifications of purchases are voice inputs from the user that indicate a purchased food item.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the notifications of purchases are electronic receipts that include a transaction identifier; and wherein the method further comprises: sending a calorie count request to a calorie count server including the transaction identifier, and receiving from the calorie count server a list of food items associated with the transaction identifier and calorie counts for each food item in the list.
18. The method of claim 11, further comprising: apportioning the calorie counts of the food items to the user by receiving a user apportionment input and apportioning the calorie counts by the user apportionment input, and applying a predetermined apportionment formula to the calorie counts, so that the calorie count statistic is based upon an apportioned total of the calorie counts of the food items that have been apportioned to the user.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the user apportionment input includes a user input of a list of people that consumed the food items, each person in the list of people having respective user profiles, and wherein the method further comprises apportioning the calorie counts of the food items to the user based on at least health data included in respective user profiles for the list of people and the predetermined apportionment formula.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the predetermined apportionment formula is a ratio of the user's body weight compared to a total body weight of the list of people.
</claims>
</document>
