<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/024,A63B24/00,A63B71/06,G02B27/14,G06K9/00,G09B19/00,G09B5/06,G09F13/12,H04M1/725,H04N21/2187,H04N21/41,H04N21/414,H04N21/431,H04N21/44,H04N21/4402,H04N21/4415,H04N21/472,H04N21/8545,H04N5/445
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CURIOUSER PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PUTNAM, BRYNN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68698451
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Reflective video display apparatus for interactive training and demonstration and methods of using same
</title>

<abstract>
A smart mirror can show live or recorded streaming video of an instructor performing a workout in a package that is attractive and unobtrusive enough to hang in a living room. The smart mirror includes a mirror surface with a fully reflecting section and a partially reflecting section. A display behind the partially reflecting section shows the video when the smart mirror is on and is almost invisible when the smart mirror is off. The smart mirror also has a speaker, a microphone, and a camera to enable a user to view the video content and interact with the instructor. The smart mirror may connect to the user's smart phone, a peripheral device (e.g., a Bluetooth speaker) to augment user experience, a biometric sensor to provide biometric data to assess user performance, and/or a network router to connect the smart mirror to a content provider, an instructor, and/or other users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An interactive exercise method, comprising: streaming exercise content to a first interactive video system comprising a first mirror having a first partially reflecting section and a first display disposed on one side of the partially reflecting section of the first mirror; displaying the exercise content to a first user via the first display and the first partially reflecting section of the first mirror; reflecting an image of the first user with the first mirror, the image of the first user appearing at least partially superimposed on the exercise content displayed via the first display and the partially reflecting section of the first mirror; streaming the exercise content to a second interactive video system comprising a second mirror having a partially reflecting section and a second display disposed on one side of the second partially reflecting section of the second mirror; displaying the exercise content to a second user via the second display and the partially reflecting section of the second mirror; and reflecting an image of the second user with the second mirror, the image of the second user appearing at least partially superimposed on the exercise content displayed via the second display and the partially reflecting section of the second mirror.
2. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, while displaying the exercise content to the first user: collecting biometric data from the first user; displaying, to the first user, the biometric data on the first display through the partially reflecting section of the first mirror; and displaying, to the first user, information about the second user on the first display via the partially reflecting section of the first mirror.
3. The interactive exercise method of claim 2, wherein the biometric data includes a heart rate of the first user, and further comprising: displaying, to the first user, information about the first user on the first display via the partially reflecting section of the first mirror, wherein the information about the first user comprises at least one of an indication of a predetermined heart rate zone of the first user or a score based on the heart rate of the first user and the predetermined heart rate zone of the first user.
4. The interactive exercise method of claim 3, wherein the information about the first user comprises an indication of a first predetermined heart rate zone of the first user for a first segment of the exercise content and an indication of a second predetermined heart rate zone of the first user for a second segment of the exercise content.
5. The interactive exercise method of claim 3, wherein the information about the first user comprises a score based on a change in the heart rate of the first user associated with a transition from a first segment of the exercise segment to a second segment of the exercise content segment.
6. The interactive exercise method of claim 2, further comprising: evaluating exercise performance of the second user based on biometric data collected from the second user, and wherein displaying the information about the second user comprises displaying, on the first display of the first user, an indication of the exercise performance of the second user.
7. The interactive exercise method of claim 2, wherein the information about the second user comprises at least one of a heart rate of the second user, an indication of a predetermined heart rate zone of the second user, or a score based on the heart rate of the second user and the predetermined heart rate zone of the second user.
8. The interactive exercise method of claim 2, further comprising: transmitting the biometric data of the first user to a server via a communications network; transmitting the biometric data of the first user from the server to the second interactive video system via the communications network; and displaying the biometric data to the second user via the second display.
9. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: while displaying the exercise content to the user of that interactive video system, displaying a leaderboard of a set of users on the display of that interactive video system based on the heart rate data for each user of the set of users, the set of users including the first user and the second user.
10. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: displaying a rank of the user of that interactive video system based on the heart rate data for the user of that interactive video system.
11. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: determining workout statistics based on biometric data of the user for that interactive video system; and displaying the workout statistics on the display for that interactive video system at the end of the exercise content.
12. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, wherein the exercise content is live exercise content.
13. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, wherein the exercise content is archived exercise content.
14. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: displaying historical exercise performance and/or historical biometric data of the user for that interactive video system.
15. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: while displaying the exercise content, displaying a message from an exercise instructor on the display of that interactive video system.
16. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: displaying a target heart rate zone for the user of that interactive video system to reach during a segment of the exercise content, the target heart rate zone being based on an exercise displayed during the segment of the exercise content and at least one of that user's age, height, weight, exercise history, or preference.
17. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising: connecting the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system to a communications network, and wherein streaming the exercise content to the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system is via the communications network.
18. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising, for each of the first interactive video system and the second interactive video system: administering a post-exercise survey to the user of that interactive video system, via at least one of that interactive video system or a smartphone associated with the user of that interactive video system, at the end of the exercise content.
19. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the first interactive video system, a selection of the exercise content from the first user via a smartphone associated with the first user, wherein the first interactive video system streams the exercise content via a communication network.
20. The interactive exercise method of claim 1, wherein the streaming the exercise content to the second interactive video system includes streaming a modified form of the exercise content to the second interactive video system based on an injury history of the second user.
</claims>
</document>
