<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON DIGITAL MEDIA SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEDI, HARKEERAT SINGH
RIGOR, PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039725
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network firewall for mitigating against persistent low volume attacks
</title>

<abstract>
A network firewall detects and protects against persistent low volume attacks based on a sequence of network data having a pattern that matches by some threshold or percentage a sequence of network data from an earlier iteration of the same persistent low volume attack. The attack patterns are derived from tokenizing one or more elements from a captured sequence of network data that is representative of an attack iteration. Counts for different resulting tokens may be stored in a feature vector that represents the attack pattern. If subsequent sequences of network data have a sufficient number of similar token, a pattern match can be identified and the firewall can take protective action including blacklisting the sending clients, blocking the traffic, redirecting the traffic, sending a problem to verify the sender is an actual user, or other actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for protecting against network attacks with a network firewall appliance, the method comprising: recording a first sequence of network data from one or more first clients, wherein the first sequence of network data comprises a first set of elements; generating a request pattern based on a first canonical representation of the first set of elements, wherein the first canonical representation is different than the first set of elements; receiving a second sequence of network data from one or more second clients, wherein the second sequence of network data comprises a different second set of elements; producing a second canonical representation from the second set of elements, wherein the second canonical representation is different than the second set of elements; comparing the second canonical representation to the first canonical representation of the request pattern; receiving at the network firewall appliance, particular network data from the one or more second clients after said comparing; and performing an attack protection on the particular network data in response to the second canonical representation matching the first canonical representation by a threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the request pattern comprises transforming the first set of elements into a first set of tokens.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of tokens comprise different k-length segments appearing in the first set of elements, wherein each k-length segment is smaller than each element of the first set of elements.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the request pattern further comprises tracking different counts of each token in the first set of tokens to a feature vector.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein producing the second canonical representation comprises transforming the second set of elements into a second set of tokens, and wherein comparing comprises detecting if counts of the second set of tokens are within threshold counts of the first set of tokens.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising passing the particular network data through the network firewall appliance without performing the attack protection in response to the second canonical representation not matching to the first canonical representation by the threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the attack protection comprises at least one of blocking the particular network data at the network firewall appliance, redirecting the particular network data, or sending a problem for a client sending the particular network data to solve.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein addressing of the one or more first clients is different than addressing of the one or more second clients.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising verifying against firewall rule sets, that the first and second sequences of network data do not contain attack signatures of known attacks.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising receiving the first and second sequences of network data at rates less than a rate for a distributed denial of attack.
11. A method comprising: receiving a first sequence of network data from at least a first client device at a firewall device; producing a canonical representation from transforming elements of the first sequence of network data; generating a pattern based on the canonical representation of the elements of the first sequence of network data, wherein the elements include one or more header parameters, payload data, and device signature information; receiving a second sequence of network data from at least a second client device at the firewall device; detecting that the second sequence of network data repeats said pattern based on a canonical representation of elements of the second sequence of network data matching the canonical representation of the elements of the first sequence by a threshold; and blocking at the firewall device, subsequent network data the second client device sends after said second sequence of network data in response to detecting a repeat of the pattern from at least the first client device by the second client device.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising obtaining an address of the first client device as a blacklisted address, and recording the first sequence of network data from the first client device in response to said obtaining and said receiving of the first sequence of network data.
13. The method of claim 11 further comprising blacklisting an address of the second client device in response to said detecting, wherein blacklisting comprises blocking subsequent network data from the second client device at the firewall device.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein said generating comprises counting a number of times different k-length tokens are found in one or more of the elements of the first sequence of network data, and wherein said detecting comprises identifying counts of k-length tokens found in one or more of the elements of the second sequence of network data that match counts of the same k-length tokens from the first sequence of network data by the threshold.
15. A network firewall device comprising: a network interface receiving a plurality of network data from a plurality of clients; a memory storing a plurality of attack signatures, request counts from different clients of the plurality of clients, a plurality of patterns, and at least one vector tracking counts of different k-length tokens found in a first set of the plurality of network data from which a pattern of the plurality of patterns is derived; and a processor activating attack protections in response to each one of: (i) network data from the plurality of network data comprising a signature matching to one of the plurality of attack signatures, (ii) at least one client from the plurality of clients having a request count from said request counts that exceeds a volumetric attack threshold, or (iii) a subset of network data from the plurality of network data matching at least one of the plurality of patterns by a specified threshold.
16. The network firewall device of claim 15, wherein said memory further comprises at least one feature vector representing a pattern from the plurality of patterns.
17. The network firewall device of claim 15, wherein in response to said processor activating the attack protections, the network interface blocks forwarding of (i) network data comprising a signature matching to one of the plurality of attack signatures, (ii) network data from a client with a request count exceeding the volumetric attack threshold, or (iii) network data matching a pattern from the plurality of patterns by the specified percentage.
18. A method comprising: receiving a first sequence of network data from at least a first client device at a firewall device; generating a pattern from elements of the first sequence of network data, wherein said generating comprises counting a number of times different k-length tokens are found in one or more of the elements of the first sequence of network data, and wherein the elements include one or more header parameters, payload data, and device signature information; receiving a second sequence of network data from at least a second client device at the firewall device; detecting that the second sequence of network data repeats said pattern based on elements of the second sequence of network data matching the elements of the first sequence by a threshold, wherein said detecting comprises identifying counts of k-length tokens found in one or more of the elements of the second sequence of network data that match counts of the same k-length tokens from the first sequence of network data by the threshold; and blocking at the firewall device, subsequent network data the second client device sends after said second sequence of network data in response to detecting a repeat of the pattern from at least the first client device by the second client device.
</claims>
</document>
