<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2008-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/36,G06N5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PRIMAL FUSION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SWEENEY, PETER, JOSEPH
BLACK, ALEXANDER DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
41720744
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for semantic concept definition and semantic concept relationship synthesis utilizing existing domain definitions
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented systems and methods for synthesis of concept definitions and concept relationships from a domain of data, utilizing different semantic processing protocols such as formal concept analysis and faceted classification synthesis from existing domain concepts that have a confidence gradient built into them. A cognitive or an input agent provides an input of an active concept which is matched against existing domain concepts. The resultant pool of relevant domain concepts is then used to derive virtual concept definitions using a semantic processing protocol. The derivation is then overlaid with a concept of relative proximity of an attribute from another within an attribute set. An additional layer of coherence is given by the relative proximity measure. The end result is a pool of related virtual concept definitions in a tree structure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: at least one hardware processor; and at least one memory storing processor-executable instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform: obtaining an active concept definition; deriving, based at least in part on the active concept definition, a plurality of virtual concept definitions by semantic processing, wherein at least two of the virtual concept definitions form relationships between themselves; searching at least one domain to build selectable depths of hierarchies of virtual concept definitions, wherein a derivable number of virtual concept definitions is determined based on a confidence gradient; associating the plurality of virtual concept definitions with at least one content node; and automatically generating at least one document using at least one of the plurality of virtual concept definitions associated with the at least one content node.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definitions comprises deriving relationships among virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein automatically generating the at least one document is performed using the relationships among the virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein deriving the relationships comprises determining hierarchical relationships among the virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definitions comprises: identifying real concept definitions generated from data in a knowledge domain; analyzing coherence between the active concept and attributes of the identified real concept definitions; and synthesizing the plurality of virtual concept definitions based on at least some of the attributes of the real concept definitions, the at least some of the attributes selected based on results of the analyzing.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definitions is performed using a semantic processing protocol.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor-executable instructions further cause the at least one hardware processor to perform: after automatically generating the at least one document, presenting the at least one document or at least one of the plurality of virtual concept definitions as part of a brainstorming session, creative writing session, journalistic research and/or other study using a given corpus of text-based linguistic data.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein obtaining the active concept definition comprises obtaining the active concept definition using a cognitive agent.
9. A method of operating a computer to perform a computer-implemented process for automatically generating documents, the method comprising: using at least one hardware processor to perform: obtaining an active concept definition; deriving, based at least in part on the active concept definition, a plurality of virtual concept definitions by semantic processing, wherein at least two of the virtual concept definitions form relationships between themselves; searching at least one domain to build selectable depths of hierarchies of virtual concept definitions, wherein a derivable number of virtual concept definitions is determined based on a confidence gradient; associating the plurality of virtual concept definitions with at least one content node; and automatically generating at least one document using at least one of the plurality of virtual concept definitions associated with the at least one content node.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definition comprises deriving relationships among virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein automatically generating the at least one document is performed using the relationships among the virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein deriving the relationships comprises determining hierarchical relationships among the virtual concept definitions in the plurality of virtual concept definitions.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definitions comprises: identifying real concept definitions generated from data in a knowledge domain; analyzing coherence between the active concept and attributes of the identified real concept definitions; and synthesizing the plurality of virtual concept definitions based on at least some of the attributes of the real concept definitions, the at least some of the attributes selected based on results of the analyzing.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein deriving the plurality of virtual concept definitions is performed using a semantic processing protocol.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises: after automatically generating the at least one document, presenting the at least one document or at least one of the virtual concept definitions as part of a brainstorming session, creative writing session, journalistic research and/or other study using a given corpus of text-based linguistic data.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein obtaining the active concept definition comprises obtaining the active concept definition using a cognitive agent.
17. A method of operating computer to perform a computer implemented process for automatically generating documents, the method comprising: using at least one hardware processor to perform: obtaining an active concept definition; identifying at least one concept definition based on the active concept definition by semantic processing; searching at least one domain to build selectable depths of hierarchies of concept definitions, wherein a derivable number of concept definitions is determined based on a confidence gradient; associating the at least one concept definition with at least one content node; and automatically generating at least one document using the at least one concept definition associated with the at least one content node.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein identifying the at least one concept definition based on the active concept definition comprises identifying at least one real concept definition based on the active concept definition.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein obtaining the active concept definition comprises obtaining the active concept definition using a cognitive agent.
</claims>
</document>
