<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/58,G06F16/951,G06F16/955,G06F7/00,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, I-CHIEN
CHANG, CHIWEN
LIU, CHIH-HSIUNG
LAN, CI-WEI
CHOU, KUO-LIANG
LIN, CHENG-FANG
HSIEH, TSAI-HSUAN
LIN, KATE
WU, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image-based domain name system
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided to provide URLs based on a digital subject matter image (DSMI) received from a requestor. The approach identifies a set of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI and matches the set of classification labels against multiple sets of predefined labels with each of the sets of predefined labels corresponding to a URL. The matching results in a selected URL pertaining to the DSMI with this URL being returned to the requestor. In one embodiment, the approach is performed by a domain name system (DNS).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by an information handling system that includes a processor and memory accessible by the processor, the method comprising: registering a plurality of digital images and a corresponding plurality of URLs with a Domain Name System (DNS), wherein the registering further comprises: identifying a plurality of predefined labels that correspond to each of the plurality of digital images; and associating each of the plurality of URLs with at least one of the plurality of predefined labels; receiving a digital subject matter image (DSMI) from a requestor; identifying a set of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI; matching the set of classification labels to one of the plurality of predefined labels; based on the matching, retrieving a selected one of the plurality of URLs associated with the matched predefined label; and returning the selected URL to the requestor.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing a high level classification on the DSMI; and identifying one or more detail classification models based on the high level classification.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: calculating a set of detailed classification labels pertaining to each of the detail classification models; and ordering the detailed classification labels, wherein the ordered detailed classification labels are used as the set of classification labels.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the ordering results in a hierarchical set of detailed features extracted from an analysis of the DSMI.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: matching the set of classification labels to the plurality of predefined labels using a machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system received the plurality of predefined labels by ingesting the plurality of digital images, and wherein the ingesting generated the plurality of predefined labels and associated the plurality of predefined labels to one of the plurality of digital images and to one of the plurality of URLs.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: resolving the selected URL using a set of one or more query strings that result from the matching to the DNS.
7. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: registering a plurality of digital images and a corresponding plurality of URLs with a Domain Name System (DNS), wherein the registering further comprises: identifying a plurality of predefined labels that correspond to each of the plurality of digital images; and associating each of the plurality of URLs with at least one of the plurality of predefined labels; receiving a digital subject matter image (DSMI) from a requestor; identifying a set of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI; matching the set of classification labels to one of the plurality of predefined labels; based on the matching, retrieving a selected one of the plurality of URLs associated with the matched predefined label; and returning the selected URL to the requestor.
8. The information handling system of claim 7 wherein the actions further comprise: performing a high level classification on the DSMI; and identifying one or more detail classification models based on the high level classification.
9. The information handling system of claim 8 wherein the actions further comprise: calculating a set of detailed classification labels pertaining to each of the detail classification models; and ordering the detailed classification labels, wherein the ordered detailed classification labels are used as the set of classification labels.
10. The information handling system of claim 9 wherein the ordering results in a hierarchical set of detailed features extracted from an analysis of the DSMI.
11. The information handling system of claim 7 wherein the actions further comprise: matching the set of classification labels to the plurality of predefined labels using a machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system received the plurality of predefined labels by ingesting the plurality of digital images, and wherein the ingesting generated the plurality of predefined labels and associated the plurality of predefined labels to one of the plurality of digital images and to one of the plurality of URLs.
12. The information handling system of claim 7 wherein the actions further comprise: resolving the selected URL using a set of one or more query strings that result from the matching to the DNS.
13. A computer program product stored in a computer readable storage medium, comprising computer program code that, when executed by an information handling system, causes the information handling system to perform actions comprising: registering a plurality of digital images and a corresponding plurality of URLs with a Domain Name System (DNS), wherein the registering further comprises: identifying a plurality of predefined labels that correspond to each of the plurality of digital images; and associating each of the plurality of URLs with at least one of the plurality of predefined labels; receiving a digital subject matter image (DSMI) from a requestor; identifying a set of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI; matching the set of classification labels to one of the plurality of predefined labels; based on the matching, retrieving a selected one of the plurality of URLs associated with the matched predefined label; and returning the selected URL to the requestor.
14. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein the actions further comprise: performing a high level classification on the DSMI; and identifying one or more detail classification models based on the high level classification.
15. The computer program product of claim 14 wherein the actions further comprise: calculating a set of detailed classification labels pertaining to each of the detail classification models; and ordering the detailed classification labels, wherein the ordered detailed classification labels are used as the set of classification labels.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the ordering results in a hierarchical set of detailed features extracted from an analysis of the DSMI.
17. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein the actions further comprise: matching the set of classification labels to the plurality of predefined labels using a machine learning system, wherein the machine learning system received the plurality of predefined labels by ingesting the plurality of digital images, and wherein the ingesting generated the plurality of predefined labels and associated the plurality of predefined labels to one of the plurality of digital images and to one of the plurality of URLs.
18. The computer program product of claim 13 wherein the actions further comprise: resolving the selected URL using a set of one or more query strings that result from the matching to the DNS.
19. A method implemented by a domain name server that is an information handling system that includes a processor and memory accessible by the processor, the method comprising: receiving, over a computer network, a digital subject matter image (DSMI) from a requestor; analyzing the received DSMI, wherein the analysis results in a plurality of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI; comparing the plurality of classification labels to a plurality of sets of predefined classification labels, wherein each of the plurality of sets of predefined classification labels corresponds with one of a plurality of uniform resource locators (URLs), the comparing further comprising: querying a root server and responsively receiving one or more name servers corresponding to subject matter images; and querying one or more of the received name servers using one or more of the plurality of classification labels and responsively receiving a selected one of the plurality of URLs based on the comparison of the plurality of classification labels to the plurality of sets of predefined classification labels; and transmitting, over the computer network, the selected URL to the requestor.
20. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of domain name server computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: receiving, over a computer network, a digital subject matter image (DSMI) from a requestor; analyzing the received DSMI, wherein the analysis results in a plurality of classification labels pertaining to the DSMI; comparing the plurality of classification labels to a plurality of sets of predefined classification labels, wherein each of the plurality of sets of predefined classification labels corresponds with one of a plurality of uniform resource locators (URLs), the comparing further comprising: querying a root server and responsively receiving one or more name servers corresponding to subject matter images; and querying one or more of the received name servers using one or more of the plurality of classification labels and responsively receiving a selected one of the plurality of URLs based on the comparison of the plurality of classification labels to the plurality of sets of predefined classification labels; and transmitting, over the computer network, the selected URL to the requestor.
</claims>
</document>
