<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/33,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTELLI, VITTORIO
FLORIAN, RADU
SIL, AVIRUP
MOON, TAESUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61242784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Query expansion
</title>

<abstract>
A query expansion method, system, and computer program product, include establishing a context of a query to execute the query within a search index by labeling phrases of interest of the query, expanding of the phrases of interest based on a language model and a topic model, and identifying and incorporating an available historical query into the context according to a historical phrase of interest and an expansion of one or more historical phrases of interest, and retrieving and displaying one or more search results based on the query and the context of the query as a first visual mark indicating a linkage between one or more terms of the query and the one or more search results and a second visual mark indicating an alignment between the available historical query and a match to the terms of the query and the search result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented query expansion method, comprising: establishing a context of a query to execute the query within a search index by: labeling phrases of interest of the query; expanding of the phrases of interest based on a language model and a topic model using: the phrases of interest that are expanded to find relevant documents and/or passages in the search index defined over a corpus in order to identify a context of the query; and the phrases of interest in the query are expanded using a query expansion technique to identify phrases of interest (PO) within the query; identifying and incorporating an available historical query into the context according to a historical phrase of interest and an expansion of one or more historical phrases of interest; and retrieving and displaying one or more search results based on the query and the context of the query as a first visual mark indicating a linkage between, one or more terms of the query and the one or more search results and a second visual mark indicating an alignment between the available historical query and a match to the terms of the query and the search result.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving indication of a selection of the one or more results; learning a relevancy of the established context, based on the selection; and eliminating un-selected results from a next query.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the learning learns the relevancy of the established context based on the selection of the search result such that the context is established based on the learned relevancy.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the establishing includes incorporating a plurality of available historical queries and comprises incorporating the available historical queries into the context by: incorporating previous search results into the context by processing the previous search results through a natural language processor to identify mentions and relations of interest; and identifying one or more anaphoric expressions and mapping the one or more anaphoric expressions to sub-spans in previous search results.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising marking the results with a third visual ark to indicate a relationship between expansion matches in the search result and terms of the query.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the available historical query is selectively excluded from establishing the context.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the expanding of the phrases of interest is selected from a group consisting of: phrases of interest within the query; natural sounding expansions; a current semantic space of the query; and a synonym.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said establishing the context, further comprises associating the terms of the query to the search result of the available historical query, and wherein creating a reference for the context between the query and a second query.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
10. A computer program product for query expansion, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform: establishing, a context of a query to execute the query within a search index by: labeling phrases of interest of the query; expanding of the phrases of interest based on a language model and a topic model using: the phrases of interest that are expanded to find relevant documents and/or passages in the search index defined over a corpus in order to identify a context of the query; and the phrases of interest in the query are expanded using a query expansion technique to identify phrases of interest (POT) within the query; identifying and incorporating an available historical query into the context according to a historical phrase of interest and an expansion of one or more historical phrases of interest; and retrieving and displaying one or more search results based on the query and the context of the query as a first visual mark indicating a linkage between one or more terms of the query and the one or more search results and a second visual mark indicating an alignment between the available historical query and a match to the terms of the query and the search result.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the establishing includes incorporating a plurality of available historical queries and comprises incorporating the available historical queries into the context by: incorporating previous search results into the context by processing the previous search results through a natural language processor to identify mentions and relations of interest; and identifying one or more anaphoric expressions and mapping the one or more anaphoric expressions to sub-spans in previous search results.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising marking the results with a third visual mark to indicate a relationship between expansion matches in the search result and terms of the query.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the available historical query is selectively excluded from establishing the context.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the expanding of the phrases of interest is selected from a group consisting of: phrases of interest within the query; natural sounding expansions; a current semantic space of the query; and a synonym.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the learning learns the relevancy of the established context based on the selection of the search result such that the context is established based on the learned relevancy.
16. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein said establishing the context, further comprises associating the terms of the query to the search result of the available historical query.
17. A query expansion system, comprising: a processor; and a memory, communicably coupled to the processor, the memory storing program instructions to cause the processor to perform: establishing, a context of a query to execute the query within a search index by: labeling phrases of interest of the query; expanding of the phrases of interest based on a language model and a topic model using: the phrases of interest that are expanded to find relevant documents and/or passages in the search index defined over a corpus in order to identify a context of the query; and the phrases of interest in the query are expanded using a query expansion technique to identify phrases of interest (POI) within the query; identifying and incorporating an available historical query into the context according to a historical phrase of interest and an expansion of one or more historical phrases of interest; and retrieving and displaying one or more search results based on the query and the context of the query as a first visual mark indicating a linkage between one or more terms of the query and the one or more search results and a second visual mark indicating an alignment between the available historical query and a match to the terms of the query and the search result.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the program instructions further cause the processor to lean a relevancy of the established context based on a selection of the search result.
19. The system of claim 17, embodied in a cloud-computing environment.
</claims>
</document>
