<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F16/17,G06F21/10,G06F9/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LABENSKI, MARCIN
STOPA, TOMASZ A.
SAWINA, GRZEGORZ
KOZA, JOANNA BARBARA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68613713
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Application tracking system
</title>

<abstract>
A method for monitoring software usage for an application installed in a computer system. The computer system determines whether a change has occurred in a set of files stored in a set of directories for the application in a file system between inventory scans of the file system. The set of the files is associated with the application and the set of the files changes when the application is used. A usage metric for the application is adjusted by the computer system to indicate a use of the application when the change has occurred in the set of the files, increasing accuracy, by the computer system, in identifying application usage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring software usage for an application installed in a computer system, the method comprising: performing, by the computer system, an inventory scan, wherein results of the inventory scan identify files in directories for applications and indicate changes in the files from a prior inventory scan of the file system; determining, by the computer system, whether a change has occurred in a set of files stored in a set of directories for the application in a file system between inventory scans of the file system, wherein the set of the files is associated with the application and the set of the files changes when the application is used, and wherein the change in the set of the files is detected using a usage signature; and adjusting, by the computer system, a usage metric for the application to indicate a use of the application when the change has occurred in the set of the files stored in the set of directories for the application, increasing accuracy, by the computer system, in identifying application usage.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: selecting, by the computer system, the set of the files from results of an inventory scan of the file system.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the selecting step comprises: selecting, by the computer system, the set of the files from at least one of a set of previously selected files for the application or a set of new files in which changes have occurred in the files in the set of the directories for the application.
4. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing, by the computer system, an inventory scan of all of the file system in response to a first event; and performing, by the computer system, the inventory scan of the set of the directories for the application in response to a second event.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining, by the computer system, how many of the set of the files have changed in response to the change in the set of the files; and reporting changed files in the set of the files.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the usage signature comprises at least one of a checksum for the set of the files, content of the set of the files, or a size of the set of the files.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of the files comprises at least one of a log file, a configuration file, a trace file, a data file, or a database file.
8. An application tracking system comprising: a computer system; and a usage tracker running on the computer system, wherein the usage tracker performs an inventory scan, wherein results of an inventory scan identify files in directories for applications and indicate changes in the files from a prior inventory scan of the file system, wherein the usage tracker determines whether a change has occurred in a set of files stored in a set of directories for an application in a file system between inventory scans of the file system, wherein the set of the files is associated with the application and the set of the files changes when the application is used, and wherein the change in the set of the files is detected using a usage signature; and adjusts a usage metric for the application to indicate a use of the application when the change has occurred in the set of the files stored in the set of directories for the application, increasing accuracy, by the computer system, in identifying application usage.
9. The application tracking system of claim 8, wherein the usage tracker selects the set of the files from results of an inventory scan of the file system.
10. The application tracking system of claim 9, wherein in selecting the set of the files, the usage tracker selects the set of the files from least one of a set of previously selected file for the application or a set of new files in which changes have occurred in the files in the set of the directories for the application.
11. The application tracking system of claim 8, wherein the usage tracker performs the inventory scan of all of the file system in response to a first event; and performs an inventory scan of the set of the directories for the application in response to a second event.
12. The application tracking system of claim 8, wherein the usage tracker determines how many of the set of the files have changed in response to the change in the set of the files and reports changed files in the set of the files.
13. The application tracking system of claim 8, wherein the using a usage signature comprises at least one of a checksum for the set of the files, a set of checksums for the set of the files, content of the set of the files, or a size of the set of the files.
14. The application tracking system of claim 8, wherein the set of the files comprises at least one of a log file, a configuration file, a trace file, a data file, or a database file.
15. A computer program product for monitoring software usage for an application installed in a computer system, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage media; first program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for performing an inventory scan, wherein results of the inventory scan identify files in directories for applications and indicate changes in the files from a prior inventory scan of the file system; second program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for determining whether a change has occurred in a set of files stored in a set of directories for the application in a file system between inventory scans of the file system, wherein the set of the files is associated with the application and the set of the files changes when the application is used, and wherein the change in the set of the files is detected using a usage signature; and third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for adjusting a usage metric for the application to indicate a use of the application when the change has occurred in the set of the files stored in the set of directories for the application, increasing accuracy, by the computer system, in identifying application usage.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 further comprising: third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for selecting the set of the files from results of an inventory scan of the file system.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the third program code comprises: program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for selecting the set of the files from at least one of a set of previously selected files for the application or a set of new files, in which changes have occurred in the files for the set of the directories for the application.
18. The computer program product of claim 15 further comprising: third program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for performing an inventory scan of all of the file system in response to a first event; and fourth program code, stored on the computer-readable storage media, for performing the inventory scan of the set of the directories for the application in response to a second event.
</claims>
</document>
