<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F40/30,G06F40/35,G06N3/08,G06Q30/00,G10L15/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASAPP
</assignee>

<inventors>
WOHLWEND, JEREMY ELLIOT AZRIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70550476
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing communications using a prototype classifier
</title>

<abstract>
In some applications, it may be desired to process a message to determine an intent of the message, where the intent indicates the meaning of the message. An intent classifier may be used to determine the meaning of a message by processing the message to compute a message embedding vector that represents the message in a vector space. Each possible intent may be represented by a prototype vector, and the intent of the message may be determined by comparing the message embedding to one or more prototype vectors, such as by selecting an intent whose prototype vector is closest to the message embedding. An intent classifier may be used, for example, (i) to implement an automated communications system with states where each state is associated with a subset of the possible intents or (ii) for processing usage data of a communications system to update the intents of the communications system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for processing messages using a neural network, the method comprising: obtaining the neural network, wherein the neural network is configured to process a message to compute a message embedding that represents a meaning of the message; obtaining prototype vectors for a plurality of intents, wherein a respective prototype vector for a respective intent was computed using a respective message embedding of a message corresponding to the respective intent, and wherein the respective message embedding was computed using the neural network; selecting a first state, wherein the first state corresponds to a first outbound message and a first subset of intents for possible responses to the first outbound message, and wherein the first subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmitting the first outbound message to a user; receiving a first inbound message from the user; processing the first inbound message with the neural network to compute a first message embedding; selecting a first intent of the first subset of intents by comparing the first message embedding with prototype vectors for the first subset of intents; selecting a second state using the first intent, wherein the second state corresponds to a second outbound message and a second subset of intents for possible responses to the second outbound message, and wherein the second subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmitting the second outbound message to the user; receiving a second inbound message from the user; processing the second inbound message with the neural network to compute a second message embedding; and selecting a second intent of the second subset of intents by comparing the second message embedding with prototype vectors for the second subset of intents.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first inbound message comprises text or an audio signal comprising speech.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein processing the first inbound message with the neural network to compute the first message embedding comprises: obtaining word embeddings for words of the first inbound message, wherein a word embedding is a vector representing a corresponding word in a vector space; processing the word embeddings with the neural network to compute the first message embedding.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a first prototype vector for the first intent is computed as an average of message embeddings of messages corresponding to the first intent.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein comparing the first message embedding with the prototype vectors for the first subset of intents comprises computing a distance between the first message embedding and each of the prototype vectors for the first subset of intents.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the distance is a Euclidean distance or a hyperbolic distance.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second state is connected to the first state in a graph.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first state is a root of a graph.
9. A system for processing messages using a neural network, the system comprising: at least one server computer comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one server computer configured to: obtain the neural network, wherein the neural network is configured to process a message to compute a message embedding that represents a meaning of the message; obtain prototype vectors for a plurality of intents, wherein a respective prototype vector for a respective intent was computed using a respective message embedding of a message corresponding to the respective intent, and wherein the respective message embedding was computed using the neural network; select a first state, wherein the first state corresponds to a first outbound message and a first subset of intents for possible responses to the first outbound message, and wherein the first subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmit the first outbound message to a user; receive a first inbound message from the user; process the first inbound message with the neural network to compute a first message embedding; select a first intent of the first subset of intents by comparing the first message embedding with prototype vectors for the first subset of intents; select a second state using the first intent, wherein the second state corresponds to a second outbound message and a second subset of intents for possible responses to the second outbound message, and wherein the second subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmit the second outbound message to the user; receive a second inbound message from the user; process the second inbound message with the neural network to compute a second message embedding; and select a second intent of the second subset of intents by comparing the second message embedding with prototype vectors for the second subset of intents.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the system is implemented by a company for providing customer support to its customers.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the system is implemented by a third-party company for providing customer support to customers of a company.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to: select a third state, wherein the third state corresponds to a third outbound message and a third subset of intents for possible responses to the third outbound message, and wherein the third subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmit the third outbound message to the user; receive a third inbound message from the user; process the third inbound message with the neural network to compute a third message embedding; and select a third intent by comparing the third message embedding to a prototype vector for the third intent, wherein the third intent is in the plurality of intents but is not in the third subset of intents.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to: selecting a fourth state using the third intent; and wherein the fourth state is not connected to the third state in a graph.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one server computer is configured to select the third intent by comparing the third message embedding to a prototype vector for each intent of the plurality of intents.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein a first prototype vector for the first intent is computed as an average of message embeddings of messages corresponding to the first intent.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the first subset of intents and the second subset of intents comprise at least one intent in common.
17. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable media comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to perform actions comprising: obtaining a neural network, wherein the neural network is configured to process a message to compute a message embedding that represents a meaning of the message; obtaining prototype vectors for a plurality of intents, wherein a respective prototype vector for a respective intent was computed using a respective message embedding of a message corresponding to the respective intent, and wherein the respective message embedding was computed using the neural network; selecting a first state, wherein the first state corresponds to a first outbound message and a first subset of intents for possible responses to the first outbound message, and wherein the first subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmitting the first outbound message to a user; receiving a first inbound message from the user; processing the first inbound message with the neural network to compute a first message embedding; selecting a first intent of the first subset of intents by comparing the first message embedding with prototype vectors for the first subset of intents; selecting a second state using the first intent, wherein the second state corresponds to a second outbound message and a second subset of intents for possible responses to the second outbound message, and wherein the second subset of intents is a subset of the plurality of intents; transmitting the second outbound message to the user; receiving a second inbound message from the user; processing the second inbound message with the neural network to compute a second message embedding; and selecting a second intent of the second subset of intents by comparing the second message embedding with prototype vectors for the second subset of intents.
18. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein comparing the first message embedding with the prototype vectors for the first subset of intents comprises computing a distance between the first message embedding and each of the prototype vectors for the first subset of intents.
19. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein a first prototype vector for the first intent is computed as an average of message embeddings of messages corresponding to the first intent.
20. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the neural network comprises a recurrent neural network.
</claims>
</document>
