<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,H04L12/24,H04L29/08,H04M1/725,H04W4/00,H04W4/02,H04W4/029,H04W4/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRISEBOIS, ARTHUR RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52583959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Autonomous pull and display of location based service applications by a mobile device based on context of the mobile device
</title>

<abstract>
A user's experience is enhanced with respect to location based services (LBS) applications that can be employed by a user via a mobile device using techniques described herein. In an aspect, a device is provided that includes a memory to store instructions and a processor, coupled to the memory, that facilitates execution of the instructions to perform various operations. The operations can include determining a context of the device comprising determining a current location of the device, identifying an application of the device that enables a function related to the current location of the device, determining that the application is relevant to a user identity associated with the device based on the context of the device, adapting a set of graphical images for display by the device to comprise a graphical image associated with the application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining context data indicative of a context of the mobile device, wherein determining the context data comprises: determining location data indicative of a current location of the mobile device, mobility state data indicative of a mobility state of the mobile device, and time data indicative of a current time, and predicting a destination location where the mobile device is headed based on the location data, the mobility state data, and directional movement data regarding a direction of movement of the mobile device; identifying a first application associated with a defined degree of relevance to the context of the mobile device based on the context data; adapting graphical elements of a home graphical user interface displayed at the mobile device to comprise a shortcut icon for the first application based on the defined degree of relevance, wherein the adapting comprises displaying the shortcut icon at a first position in the home graphical user interface determined to facilitate a more efficient selection of the shortcut icon relative to a second position in the home graphical user interface when the mobile device is handheld and operated under the mobility state; sending the context data to an application server associated with the first application; and in response to the sending, receiving an update for the first application determined based on the context data; identifying a second application in an application datastore that is relevant to the destination location and not stored in the memory of the mobile device; and downloading the second application prior to arrival of the mobile device at the destination location based on the identifying the second application.
2. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein the displaying is further based on a determination that the first position facilitates the more efficient selection of the shortcut icon relative to the second position when the mobile device is handheld based on a dimension of a display screen of the mobile device on which the home graphical user interface is displayed.
3. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein determining the context data further comprises determining event data regarding an event associated with the current location of the mobile device.
4. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein determining the context data further comprises identifying a place of business associated with the current location and determining hours of operation of the place of business, and wherein determining the degree of relevance is based on whether the place of business is open for operation at the current time.
5. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein displaying the shortcut icon at the first position is further based on a determination that the first position facilitates the more efficient selection of the shortcut icon relative to the second position when the mobile device is handheld based on dexterity data representative of a dexterity of an entity associated with the mobile device.
6. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein identifying the first application comprises employing implicitly trained classifiers that were trained based on historical application usage data in association with historical context data.
7. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein identifying the first application comprises employing explicitly trained classifiers that were trained based on previously generated training data.
8. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein identifying the first application comprises employing classifiers that were trained in association with a training phase within a classifier constructor and feature selection module to determine applications that are relevant to different contexts of the mobile device.
9. The mobile device of claim 8, wherein the different contexts are based on a combination of attributes including location attributes regarding locations of the mobile device, mobility state attributes regarding mobility states of the mobile device, and time attributes regarding time and day.
10. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein identifying the first application comprises identifying the first application based on whether the first application satisfies a rule for use in association with the mobility state.
11. The mobile device of claim 10, wherein the mobility state is selected from a group consisting of a stationary mobility state, a walking mobility state, and a driving mobility state.
12. The mobile device of claim 1, wherein determining the location data comprises activating a global positioning system component of the mobile device and employing the global positioning system component to determine the location data in response to a first change in mobility state of the mobile device from a stationary mobility state to a non-stationary mobility state.
13. The mobile device of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: deactivating the global positioning system component in response to a second change in the mobility state of the mobile device from the non-stationary mobility state to the stationary mobility state.
14. A method, comprising: determining, by a mobile device comprising a processor, context data indicative of a change in a context of the mobile device from a first context to a second context, wherein determining the context data comprises: determining a change in a location of the mobile device from a first location to a second location, determining a mobility state of the mobile device and determining a current time of operation of the mobile device, and predicting a destination location where the mobile device is headed based on the location data, the mobility state data, and directional movement data regarding a direction of movement of the mobile device; in response to determining the context data, identifying by the mobile device a first application associated with a defined degree of relevance to the second context of the mobile device based on the context data; adapting, by the mobile device, graphical elements of a home graphical user interface displayed at the mobile device to comprise a shortcut icon for the first application based on the defined degree of relevance, wherein the adapting comprises displaying the shortcut icon at a first position in the home graphical user interface determined to facilitate a more efficient selection of the shortcut icon relative to a second position in the home graphical user interface when the mobile device is held and operated under the mobility state; providing the context data to an application server associated with the first application; based on the providing, receiving an update for the first application determined based on the context data; identifying a second application in an application datastore that is relevant to the destination location and not stored in the memory of the mobile device; and downloading the second application prior to arrival of the mobile device at the destination location based on the identifying the second application.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the displaying is further based on a determination that the first position facilitates the more efficient selection of the shortcut icon relative to the second position when the mobile device is handheld based on a dimension of a display screen of the mobile device on which the home graphical user interface is displayed.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the context data further comprises identifying a place of business associated with the second location and determining hours of operation of the place of business, and wherein determining the degree of relevance is based on whether the place of business is open for operation at the current time.
17. A non-transitory readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a mobile device, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining context data indicative of a change in a context of the mobile device from a first context to a second context, wherein determining the context data comprises: determining a change in a location of mobile device from a first location to a second location, determining a mobility state of the mobile device and determining a current time of operation of the mobile device, and predicting a destination location where the mobile device is headed based on the change in the location, the mobility state data, and directional movement data regarding a direction of movement of the mobile device; inferring, based on the context data, that a first application comprising a first shortcut icon displayed at a first position in a home graphical user interface of the mobile device has less relevance to the second context than to the first context; identifying, based on the context data, a second application that has more relevance to the second context than the first application; adapting graphical elements of the home graphical user interface to comprise a second shortcut icon for the second application at the first position; facilitating transmitting the context data to an application server associated with the second application based on the identifying; based on the transmitting, receiving an update for the second application determined based on the context data; identifying a third application in an application datastore that is relevant to the destination location and not stored in the memory of the mobile device; and downloading the third application prior to arrival of the mobile device at the destination location based on the identifying the third application.
18. The non-transitory readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein determining the context data further comprises identifying user devices located within a defined proximity to the mobile device and entities associated with the user devices.
19. The non-transitory readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein determining the context data further comprises determining event data regarding an event associated with the second location.
20. The non-transitory readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein determining the context data further comprises identifying a place of business associated with the second location and determining hours of operation of the place of business.
</claims>
</document>
