<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W30/12,B60W30/16,B60W50/00,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G05D1/10,G06N3/08,G08G1/015,G08G1/017,G08G1/16,G08G7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HYUN, YOONSUK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61243213
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Autonomous driving method and apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous driving method includes: determining a risk of a target vehicle based on either one or both of a driving characteristic and an appearance characteristic of the target vehicle; and autonomously controlling a host vehicle based on the risk.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous driving method of a host vehicle, the autonomous driving method comprising: detecting a target vehicle based on at least one sensor of a plurality of sensors of the host vehicle; acquiring an appearance characteristic of the target vehicle that is detected based on the at least one sensor, wherein the appearance characteristic is an exterior characteristic of the target vehicle; acquiring a driving characteristic of the target vehicle based on at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors; determining a risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle based the driving characteristic of the target vehicle and a comparison result obtained by comparing the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle with a standard image; and autonomously controlling the host vehicle based on the risk of collision, wherein the determining the risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle comprises detecting an abnormality in the exterior of the target vehicle using the comparison result.
2. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein the driving characteristic comprises a characteristic associated with a speed of the target vehicle.
3. The autonomous driving method of claim 2, wherein: the characteristic associated with the speed of the target vehicle comprises any one or any combination of any two or more of the speed of the target vehicle, a speed of the target vehicle relative to the host vehicle, and a difference between the speed of the target vehicle and an average speed of a vehicle near the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises determining the risk of collision based on whether any one or any combination of any two or more of the speed of the target vehicle, the speed of the target vehicle relative to the host vehicle, and the difference between the speed of the target vehicle and the average speed of the vehicle near the target vehicle exceeds a threshold.
4. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the driving characteristic comprises variances in a speed of the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises determining the risk of collision based on whether a number of times that the variances in the speed of the target vehicle exceed a threshold variance during a defined time period exceeds a defined value.
5. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the driving characteristic comprises a distance between the target vehicle and a vehicle ahead of the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises determining the risk of collision based on whether the distance between the target vehicle and the vehicle ahead of the target vehicle is less than a threshold distance.
6. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the driving characteristic comprises a number of lane changes performed by the target vehicle during a defined time period; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises determining the risk of collision based on whether the number of lane changes exceeds a threshold number of lane changes.
7. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the exterior characteristic comprises an appearance of a part of the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises: acquiring the standard image corresponding to the part of the target vehicle based on a type of the target vehicle, measuring a stability of the part of the target vehicle by comparing the appearance of the part of the target vehicle with the standard image, and determining the risk of collision based on whether the stability of the part is less than a threshold.
8. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the exterior characteristic comprises an appearance of freight loaded on the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises: measuring a fall risk of the freight based on the appearance of the freight loaded on the target vehicle, and determining the risk of collision based on whether the fall risk of the freight exceeds a threshold.
9. The autonomous driving method of claim 8, wherein the measuring of the fall risk comprises: extracting a center of gravity of the target vehicle based on the appearance characteristic of the freight loaded on the target vehicle; obtaining a standard center of gravity corresponding to the target vehicle based on a type of the target vehicle; and generating the fall risk of the freight based on a difference between the center of gravity and the standard center of gravity.
10. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the exterior characteristic comprises an overall appearance of the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision comprises: acquiring the standard image corresponding to the overall appearance based on a type of the target vehicle, measuring a deterioration in the overall appearance by comparing the overall appearance with the standard image, and determining the risk of collision based on whether the deterioration exceeds a threshold deterioration.
11. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein: the exterior characteristic comprises a type of the target vehicle; and the determining of the risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle is further based on an accident rate and a production year of the type.
12. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the risk of collision comprises: generating a feature vector based on either one or both of the driving characteristic and the appearance characteristic; inputting the feature vector into a neural network; and determining the risk of collision based on a vector output from the neural network.
13. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting a speed of the host vehicle based on the risk of collision; and changing lanes of the host vehicle based on the risk of collision and a lane of the target vehicle.
14. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an identifier of the target vehicle based on the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle; and transmitting any one or any combination of any two or more of the identifier, the driving characteristic, the appearance characteristic, and a risk of collision to a vehicle near the host vehicle, wherein the identifier comprises any one or any combination of any two or more of a license plate, a type, and a color of the target vehicle.
15. The autonomous driving method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an identifier of the target vehicle based on the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle; receiving any one or any combination of any two or more of a second identifier, a second driving characteristic, and a second appearance characteristic from a server or a vehicle near the host vehicle; and updating the risk of collision based on either one or both of the second driving characteristic and the second appearance characteristic, in response to the second identifier being the same as the identifier.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform an autonomous driving method of a host vehicle, the autonomous driving method comprising: detecting a target vehicle based on at least one sensor of a plurality of sensors of the host vehicle; acquiring an appearance characteristic of the target vehicle that is detected based on the at least one sensor, wherein the appearance characteristic is an exterior characteristic of the target vehicle; acquiring a driving characteristic of the target vehicle based on at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors; determining a risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle based on the driving characteristic of the target vehicle and a comparison result obtained by comparing the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle with a standard image; and autonomously controlling the host vehicle based on the risk of collision, wherein determining the risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle comprises detecting an abnormality in the exterior of the target vehicle using the comparison result.
17. An autonomous driving apparatus of a host vehicle, comprising: a processor configured to: detect a target vehicle based on at least one sensor of a plurality of sensors of the host vehicle; acquire an appearance characteristic of the target vehicle that is detected based on the at least one sensor, wherein the appearance characteristic is an exterior characteristic of the target vehicle; acquire a driving characteristic of the target vehicle based on at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors; determine a risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle based on and the driving characteristic of the target vehicle and a comparison result obtained by comparing the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle with a standard image; and autonomously control the host vehicle based on the risk of collision, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the risk of collision between the target vehicle and the host vehicle by detecting an abnormality in the exterior of the target vehicle using the comparison result.
18. The autonomous driving apparatus of claim 17, wherein: the driving characteristic comprises any one or any combination of any two or more of a speed of the target vehicle, a speed of the target vehicle relative to the host vehicle, and a difference between the speed of the target vehicle and an average speed of a vehicle near the target vehicle; and the processor is further configured to determine the risk of collision based on whether any one or any combination of any two or more of the speed of the target vehicle, the speed of the target vehicle relative to the host vehicle, and the difference between the speed of the target vehicle and the average speed of the vehicle near the target vehicle exceeds a threshold.
19. The autonomous driving apparatus of claim 17, wherein: the exterior characteristic comprises an appearance of a part of the target vehicle; and the processor is further configured to determine the risk of collision by: acquiring the standard image corresponding to the part based on a type of the target vehicle, measuring a stability of the part by comparing the appearance of the part with the standard image, and determining the risk of collision based on whether the stability of the part is less than a threshold.
20. An autonomous host vehicle, comprising: a processor configured to: detect a target vehicle based on at least one sensor of a plurality of sensors of the autonomous host vehicle; acquire an appearance characteristic of the target vehicle that is detected based on the at least one sensor, wherein the appearance characteristic is an exterior characteristic of the target vehicle; acquire a driving characteristic of the target vehicle based on at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors; determine a risk of collision between the target vehicle and the autonomous host vehicle based on the driving characteristic of the target vehicle and a comparison result obtained by comparing the appearance characteristic of the target vehicle with a standard image; and autonomously control a either one or both of a driving path and a speed of the autonomous host vehicle based on the risk of collision, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the risk of collision between the target vehicle and the autonomous host vehicle by detecting an abnormality in the exterior of the target vehicle using the appearance characteristic.
21. The autonomous host vehicle of claim 20, wherein the appearance characteristic comprises any one or any combination of any two or more of an appearance of headlights, an appearance of side-view mirrors, an appearance of windshield wipers, an appearance of tires, an appearance of freight loaded on the target vehicle, and a type of the target vehicle.
22. The autonomous host vehicle of claim 20, wherein the driving characteristic comprises either one or both of variances in a speed of the target vehicle and a number of lane changes performed by the target vehicle during a defined time period.
23. The autonomous host vehicle of claim 20, wherein the autonomous host vehicle is one of an automobile, a motorcycle and a drone.
</claims>
</document>
