<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05F1/67,H02J3/38,H02M1/42,H02M7/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOUSAVI, MIRRASOUL J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technologies for provisioning power controllers for grid services
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for provisioning power controllers for grid services are disclosed. In at least one illustrative embodiment, a method for estimating real-time available peak power (APP) of a power plant may comprise determining whether an inverter of the power plant electrically coupled to at least one solar panel array of the power plant is operating in a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) mode, obtaining a measured output of the at least one solar panel array in response to determining that the inverter is operating in the MPPT mode, estimating an expected output of the inverter as a function of the measured output of the solar panel array using an inverter production model, and estimating the APP of the power plant as a function of the expected output of the inverter using a site compensation model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for estimating real-time available peak power (APP) of a power plant, the power plant comprising at least one solar panel array and an inverter electrically coupled to the at least one solar panel array, the method comprising: determining whether the inverter is operating in a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) mode; obtaining a measured output of the at least one solar panel array in response to determining that the inverter is operating in the MPPT mode; estimating, using an inverter production model, an expected output of the inverter as a function of the measured output of the solar panel array; and estimating, using a site compensation model, the available peak power (APP) of the power plant as a function of the expected output of the inverter.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: estimating, using an array production model, an expected output of the at least one solar panel array in response to determining that the inverter is not operating in the MPPT mode; and estimating, using the inverter production model, the expected output of the inverter as a function of the expected output of the solar panel array.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the array production model is a validated model that relates solar irradiance levels to expected outputs of the at least one solar panel array.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the inverter production model relates direct current (DC) inputs of the inverter to expected alternating current (AC) outputs of the inverter.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the site compensation model characterizes local losses associated with the power plant.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the inverter is operating in the MPPT mode comprises referencing set points for the inverter received from a system operator of the power plant.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising transmitting the estimation of the APP to the system operator for use in updating the set points for the inverter.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising repeating the method to generate a new estimation of the APP of the power plant at least once during every dispatch cycle of the system operator.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured output of the at least one solar panel array is obtained in real-time and without taking the inverter off-line.
10. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing a plurality of instructions that, when executed by a power controller operatively connected to (i) at least one solar panel array and (ii) an inverter electrically coupled to the at least one solar panel array, cause the power controller to: determine whether the inverter is operating in a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) mode; if the inverter is determined to be operating in the MPPT mode, obtain a measured output of the at least one solar panel array; if the inverter is determined not to be operating in the MPPT mode, estimate an expected output of the at least one solar panel array using an array production model; estimate, using an inverter production model, an expected output of the inverter as a function of the measured or expected output of the solar panel array; and estimate, using a site compensation model, the available peak power (APP) of the power plant as a function of the expected output of the inverter.
11. The non-transitory one or more computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein: the array production model is a validated model that relates solar irradiance levels to expected outputs of the at least one solar panel array; the inverter production model relates direct current (DC) inputs of the inverter to expected alternating current (AC) outputs of the inverter; and the site compensation model characterizes local losses associated with the power plant.
12. The non-transitory one or more computer-readable media of claim 10, wherein the plurality of instructions cause the power controller to determine whether the inverter is operating in the MPPT mode by referencing set points for the inverter received from a system operator of the power plant.
13. The non-transitory one or more computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the plurality of instructions further cause the power controller to transmit the estimation of the APP to the system operator for use in updating the set points for the inverter.
14. The non-transitory one or more computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the plurality of instructions cause the power controller to generate a new estimation of the APP of the power plant at least once during every dispatch cycle of the system operator.
15. A power plant comprising: at least one solar panel array; an inverter electrically coupled to the at least one solar panel array; and a power controller operatively connected to the at least one solar panel array and to the inverter, the power controller being configured to: determine whether the inverter is operating in a maximum power point tracking (MPPT) mode; if the inverter is determined to be operating in the MPPT mode, obtain a measured output of the at least one solar panel array; if the inverter is determined not to be operating in the MPPT mode, estimate an expected output of the at least one solar panel array using an array production model; estimate, using an inverter production model, an expected output of the inverter as a function of the measured or expected output of the solar panel array; and estimate, using a site compensation model, the available peak power (APP) of the power plant as a function of the expected output of the inverter.
16. The power plant of claim 15, wherein: the array production model is a validated model that relates solar irradiance levels to expected outputs of the at least one solar panel array; the inverter production model relates direct current (DC) inputs of the inverter to expected alternating current (AC) outputs of the inverter; and the site compensation model characterizes local losses associated with the power plant.
17. The power plant of claim 15, wherein the power controller is configured to determine whether the inverter is operating in the MPPT mode by referencing set points for the inverter received from a system operator of the power plant.
18. The power plant of claim 17, wherein the power controller is further configured to transmit the estimation of the APP to the system operator for use in updating the set points for the inverter.
19. The power plant of claim 17, wherein the power controller is configured to generate a new estimation of the APP of the power plant at least once during every dispatch cycle of the system operator.
20. The power plant of claim 15, wherein the power controller is configured to obtain the measured output of the at least one solar panel array in real-time and without taking the inverter off-line.
</claims>
</document>
