<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/16,G06F11/30,G06F15/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREUER, MARCUS
JÄCKLE, WERNER
KRICK, FRANK
MUEHGE, THORSTEN
RUEGER, ERIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66632399
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Tape library integrated failure indication based on cognitive sound and vibration analysis
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer system, and a computer program product for integrated failure indication is provided. The present invention may include receiving a plurality of sensor data from a plurality of sensors mounted within the tape system. The present invention may then include determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal. The present invention may then include generating an alert based on determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal. The present invention may lastly include sending the generated alert to a program manager.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for integrated failure indication of a tape system, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of sensor data from a plurality of sensors mounted within the tape system, wherein each of at least two of the plurality of sensors is mounted to sense data of a corresponding tape frame comprising a set of tape cells; transferring the received plurality of sensor data via a standardized protocol, including message queuing telemetry transport (MQTT), to a cognitive cloud solution; determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal, wherein the sensor data includes frequency data, wherein the abnormal status is determined by comparing the frequency data to at least one stored frequency, wherein the sensor data is determined to be abnormal when that the frequency data is not the same as the at least one stored frequency, or the sensor data is determined to be abnormal if the frequency data matches the at least one stored frequency that corresponds to an abnormal status; generating an alert based on determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal; and sending the generated alert to a program manager.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by internet-connected sensors located within a tape library storage system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a piezoelectric sensor.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal further comprises a machine-to-machine connectivity protocol and a cognitive cloud solution.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a sound detecting microphone.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal comprises comparing the received plurality of sensor data to a database of classified sound and vibration data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the generated alert to a program manager comprises sending an email notification.
8. A computer system for integrated failure indication of a tape system, comprising: one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable tangible storage medium, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more tangible storage medium for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, wherein the computer system is capable of performing a method comprising: receiving a plurality of sensor data from a plurality of sensors mounted within the tape system, wherein each of at least two of the plurality of sensors is mounted to sense data of a corresponding tape frame comprising a set of tape cells; transferring the received plurality of sensor data via a standardized protocol, including message queuing telemetry transport (MQTT), to a cognitive cloud solution; determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal, wherein the sensor data includes frequency data, wherein the abnormal status is determined by comparing the frequency data to at least one stored frequency, wherein the sensor data is determined to be abnormal when that the frequency data is not the same as the at least one stored frequency, or the sensor data is determined to be abnormal if the frequency data matches the at least one stored frequency that corresponds to an abnormal status; generating an alert based on determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal; and sending the generated alert to a program manager.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by internet-connected sensors located within a tape library storage system.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a piezoelectric sensor.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal further comprises a machine-to-machine connectivity protocol and a cognitive cloud solution.
12. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a sound detecting microphone.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal comprises comparing the received plurality of sensor data to a database of classified sound and vibration data.
14. The computer system of claim 8, wherein sending the generated alert to a program manager comprises sending an email notification.
15. A computer program product for integrated failure indication of a tape system, comprising: one or more computer-readable storage media and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more tangible storage media, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving a plurality of sensor data from a plurality of sensors mounted within the tape system, wherein each of at least two of the plurality of sensors is mounted to sense data of a corresponding tape frame comprising a set of tape cells; transferring the received plurality of sensor data via a standardized protocol, including message queuing telemetry transport (MQTT), to a cognitive cloud solution; determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal, wherein the sensor data includes frequency data, wherein the abnormal status is determined by comparing the frequency data to at least one stored frequency, wherein the sensor data is determined to be abnormal when that the frequency data is not the same as the at least one stored frequency, or the sensor data is determined to be abnormal if the frequency data matches the at least one stored frequency that corresponds to an abnormal status; generating an alert based on determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal; and sending the generated alert to a program manager.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by internet-connected sensors located within a tape library storage system.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a piezoelectric sensor.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal further comprises a machine-to-machine connectivity protocol and a cognitive cloud solution.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the received plurality of sensor data is generated by a sound detecting microphone.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein determining that the received plurality of sensor data is abnormal comprises comparing the received plurality of sensor data to a database of classified sound and vibration data.
</claims>
</document>
