<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F15B15/10,F15B21/06,H02N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA MOTOR ENGINEERING & MANUFACTURING NORTH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAKUBIEC, JILLIAN M.
ROWE, MICHAEL, PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71945982
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Soft-bodied fluidic actuator
</title>

<abstract>
An actuator includes a first enclosure, a dielectric fluid in the first enclosure, and a second enclosure in fluid communication with the first enclosure. An elastic membrane defines at least a portion of the second enclosure. A first electrical conductor is positioned along a first side of the first enclosure. A second electrical conductor is positioned along a second side of the first enclosure opposite the first side. The second conductor is spaced apart from the first conductor. The conductors are connected to a power source. Application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors produces an attractive force between the conductors. Motion of the conductors toward each other pressurizes the dielectric fluid so as to force the dielectric fluid to flow from the first enclosure into the second enclosure. The flow of the dielectric fluid exerts a force on the elastic membrane which expands the elastic membrane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An actuator comprising: a first enclosure; a dielectric fluid positioned in the first enclosure; a second enclosure in fluid communication with the first enclosure; an elastic membrane defining at least a portion of the second enclosure; a first electrical conductor positioned along a first side of the first enclosure; and a second electrical conductor positioned along a second side of the first enclosure opposite the first side and spaced apart from the first conductor, the first conductor and the second conductor being configured to receive electrical energy from a power source, the actuator being configured such that a first application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors produces an attractive force between the first conductor and the second conductor, drawing the first conductor and the second conductor toward each other, wherein motion of the first conductor and the second conductor toward each other pressurizes the dielectric fluid in the first enclosure so as to force the dielectric fluid to flow from the first enclosure into the second enclosure, and wherein the flow of the dielectric fluid into the second enclosure exerts a force on the elastic membrane which expands the elastic membrane.
2. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the actuator is configured such that, upon removal of the first application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors, a force exerted by the elastic membrane in an expanded state on the dielectric fluid in the second enclosure urges the dielectric fluid to flow from the second enclosure into the first enclosure.
3. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the actuator is configured such that, upon removal of the first application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors, a force exerted on an exterior of the elastic membrane urges the dielectric fluid to flow from the second enclosure and into the first enclosure.
4. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the actuator is configured such that a second application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors produces a repulsive force between the first conductor and the second conductor, urging the first conductor and the second conductor away from each other so as to apply pressure to a dielectric fluid residing in the second enclosure, and wherein the pressure applied to the dielectric fluid urges the dielectric fluid to flow from the second enclosure into the first enclosure.
5. The actuator of claim 1 wherein the first enclosure comprises a bladder having a casing formed from a flexible, fluid-impermeable material, the casing having at least one opening formed therein and enabling fluid communication between the first enclosure and the second enclosure, wherein the casing has a first wall defining the first side of the first enclosure, and wherein the casing has a second wall opposite the first wall and defining the second side of the first enclosure.
6. The actuator of claim 5 wherein the at least one opening extends through the second side of the first enclosure.
7. The actuator of claim 6 wherein the at least one opening extends through the second conductor.
8. The actuator of claim 5 further comprising a receptacle including a base and at least one wall extending from the base so as to define a cavity configured to receive the bladder therein and to prevent movement of the bladder from the cavity past the at least one wall and the base.
9. The actuator of claim 8 wherein the second enclosure is defined by at least an exterior surface of the bladder and the elastic membrane.
10. The actuator of claim 9 wherein the second enclosure is further defined by at least a portion of the receptacle.
11. The actuator of claim 8 further comprising a rigid cover positioned over at least a portion of the cavity so as to prevent expansion of a portion of the elastic membrane covered by the rigid cover outside the cavity, the rigid cover including an opening formed therein, the opening being configured to channel the expansion of the elastic membrane therethrough when the flow of the dielectric fluid into the second enclosure produces an expansion of the elastic membrane.
12. The actuator of claim 1 further comprising a first insulating layer interposed between the first electrical conductor and the second electrical conductor so as to prevent direct physical contact between the first electrical conductor and the second electrical conductor.
13. The actuator of claim 12 further comprising a second insulating layer interposed between an exterior of the first enclosure and at least one of the first electrical conductor and the second electrical conductor.
14. The actuator of claim 13 wherein the first and second insulating layers are formed from the same material and form a continuous structure encapsulating the at least one of the first conductor and the second conductor.
15. A surface operable to exert a force on an object in contact with the surface, the surface comprising a plurality of individually operable actuators, each actuator of the plurality of actuators being configured in accordance with claim 1.
16. A system comprising: at least one actuator including a first enclosure, a dielectric fluid positioned in the first enclosure, a second enclosure in fluid communication with the first enclosure, an elastic membrane defining at least a portion of the second enclosure, a first electrical conductor positioned along a first side of the first enclosure, a second electrical conductor positioned along a second side of the first enclosure opposite the first side and spaced apart from the first conductor, the first conductor and the second conductor being configured to receive electrical energy from a power source; a power source operatively connected to supply electrical energy to first conductor and the second conductor; and one or more processors operatively connected to selectively control a supply of electrical energy from the power source to the actuator, the actuator being configured such that a first application of electrical energy to the first and second conductors produces an attractive force between the first conductor and the second conductor, drawing the first conductor and the second conductor toward each other, wherein motion of the first conductor and the second conductor toward each other pressurizes the dielectric fluid in the first enclosure so as to force the dielectric fluid to flow from the first enclosure into the second enclosure, and wherein the flow of the dielectric fluid into the second enclosure exerts a force on the elastic membrane which expands the elastic membrane.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the power source is configured to supply electrical energy to the first and second conductors such that the first and second conductors have unlike charges, such that the first conductor and the second conductor are attracted to each other when a first application of electrical energy is supplied to the first conductor and the second conductor.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the power source is configured to supply electrical energy to the first and second conductors such that the first and second conductors have like charges, such that the first conductor and the second conductor repel away from each other when a second application of electrical energy is supplied to the first conductor and the second conductor.
19. The system of claim 16, further including an input interface, whereby the supply of electrical energy from the power source to the actuator is controllable by inputs received via the input interface.
20. The system of claim 16, further including one or more sensors operatively connected to the one or more processors, whereby the supply of electrical energy from the power source to the actuator is controllable based on sensor data acquired by the one or more sensors.
</claims>
</document>
