<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F8/65,H04L12/66,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAGULURI, SRINIVASA R.
SPENARD, AARON K.
EROSHKINA, ELENA G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055148
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated internet of things based software patching
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus in one embodiment comprises a first processing platform configured to communicate over a network with at least one additional processing platform. The first processing platform further comprises a plurality of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors configured to detect application of software patches to a monitored system, and at least one IoT gateway coupled to the IoT sensors. The IoT gateway is configured to transmit over the network to the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system, and to receive over the network from the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system. The first processing platform is configured to apply the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system. The information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system is automatically determined at least in part by an analytics engine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: a first processing platform comprising one or more processing devices each comprising a processor coupled to a memory; the first processing platform being configured to communicate over a network with at least one additional processing platform; the first processing platform further comprising: a plurality of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors configured to detect application of software patches to a monitored system; and at least one IoT gateway coupled to the IoT sensors and configured: to transmit over the network to the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system; and to receive over the network from the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system; wherein the first processing platform is configured to apply the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system; wherein the monitored system is separate from the at least one IoT gateway and the IoT sensors; wherein the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system is automatically determined at least in part by analytics processing performed by an analytics engine of the additional processing platform utilizing the information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system and information characterizing software patches stored in a patch repository of the additional processing platform; and wherein the first processing platform is further configured to generate, from the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system, one or more patching routines that when executed in the first processing platform result in application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system.
2. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first processing platform comprises at least a portion of a data center and the monitored system comprises at least one storage array utilized by the data center.
3. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the monitored system is part of the first processing platform.
4. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system comprises patch push information delivered from the additional processing platform to the first processing platform over the network via the IoT gateway.
5. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system comprises patch pull information delivered from the additional processing platform to the first processing platform over the network via the IoT gateway.
6. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system comprises at least one list of multiple applied patches.
7. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system comprises at least one list of multiple patches to be applied.
8. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the IoT gateway is configured to utilize an authentication component to interface with an edge device authentication layer of the additional processing platform.
9. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system is controlled based at least in part on user input entered into a patch portal associated with the additional processing platform responsive to decision information provided to the user.
10. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the first processing platform further comprises: a patch staging module; a scheduling module; and a deployment engine having inputs coupled to respective outputs of the patch staging module and the scheduling module; the deployment engine having an output coupled to the monitored system and being configured to control application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system based at least in part on staging and scheduling information received from the respective patch staging and scheduling modules.
11. The apparatus of claim 10 wherein the deployment engine is configured to utilize the staging and scheduling information received from the respective patch staging and scheduling modules to generate the one or more patching routines as one or more patching runbooks that when executed in the first processing platform result in application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system.
12. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the analytics engine automatically determines the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system based at least in part on information stored in a data lake of the additional processing platform.
13. The apparatus of claim 1 wherein the stored software patches are received in the patch repository at least in part via a continuous integration continuous development (CICD) pipeline relating to software components of the monitored system.
14. A method comprising: configuring a first processing platform to communicate over a network with at least one additional processing platform; wherein the first processing platform performs steps of: detecting, in a plurality of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors coupled to an IoT gateway, application of software patches to a monitored system; transmitting over the network via the IoT gateway to the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system; receiving over the network via the IoT gateway from the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system; and applying the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system; wherein the monitored system is separate from the at least one IoT gateway and the IoT sensors; wherein the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system is automatically determined at least in part by analytics processing performed by an analytics engine of the additional processing platform utilizing the information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system and information characterizing software patches stored in a patch repository of the additional processing platform; wherein the first processing platform is further configured to generate, from the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system, one or more patching routines that when executed in the first processing platform result in application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system; and wherein the first processing platform comprises one or more processing devices each comprising a processor coupled to a memory.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the analytics engine automatically determines the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system based at least in part on information stored in a data lake of the additional processing platform.
16. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having stored therein program code of one or more software programs, wherein the program code when executed by a first processing platform, the processing platform being configured to communicate over a network with at least one additional processing platform, causes the first processing platform: to detect, in a plurality of Internet of Things (IoT) sensors coupled to an IoT gateway, application of software patches to a monitored system; to transmit over the network via the IoT gateway to the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system; to receive over the network via the IoT gateway from the additional processing platform information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system; and to apply the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system; wherein the monitored system is separate from the at least one IoT gateway and the IoT sensors; wherein the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system is automatically determined at least in part by analytics processing performed by an analytics engine of the additional processing platform utilizing the information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system and information characterizing software patches stored in a patch repository of the additional processing platform; and wherein the first processing platform is further configured to generate, from the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system, one or more patching routines that when executed in the first processing platform result in application of the one or more additional software patches to the monitored system.
17. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein the analytics engine automatically determines the information characterizing the one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system based at least in part on information stored in a data lake of the additional processing platform.
18. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system comprises patch push information delivered from the additional processing platform to the first processing platform over the network via the IoT gateway.
19. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more additional software patches to be applied to the monitored system comprises patch pull information delivered from the additional processing platform to the first processing platform over the network via the IoT gateway.
20. The computer program product of claim 16 wherein at least a portion of the information characterizing one or more software patches previously applied to the monitored system comprises at least one list of multiple applied patches.
</claims>
</document>
