<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M3/00,G01M3/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHYN
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANERJEE, SALIL P.
ESTERBERG, AANAND
PATEL, SHWETAK, N.
RAMOS-GARCIA, RAUL I.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64607308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Passive leak detection for building water supply
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system is disclosed. A temperature sensor coupled to the water in the plumbing system is used to determine if there is a leak. During times of inactivity for fixtures in the plumbing systems, a flow sensor might measure usage of water that would indicate a leak. For very small leaks, the flow is below a minimum measurable flow of the flow sensor. Embodiments of the invention measure temperature of water within a pipe coupled to the plumbing system. Temperature will generally decay in a particular predicable way when there is flow as the temperature of water upon entry to the building is lower than the air temperature within the building. Signal processing, machine learning and/or statistical approaches are used to analyze the temperature and optionally flow and/or pressure over time to determine when a leak is likely.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting small leaks of liquid in a plumbing system, the method comprising: measuring liquid flow within a pipe of the plumbing system with a flow sensor, wherein the flow sensor does not measure temperature; determining algorithmically using the flow sensor that there is no intentional liquid egress from the plumbing system caused by an open water fixture; measuring temperature of the liquid over time at a point in the plumbing system upstream from a leak while there is no intentional liquid egress and no measured liquid flow as measured by the flow sensor; processing measured temperature over time to determine whether a decay of the measured temperature exceeds a threshold decay of liquid in the plumbing system; and transmitting a leak detected signal when the decay exceeds the threshold decay.
2. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 1, wherein the processing step uses signal processing techniques to match the measured temperature to a leak profile.
3. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 1, the method further comprising: measuring temperature at a second point of the plumbing system; processing a second measured temperature at the second point; and correcting the processing the measured temperature using the second measured temperature.
4. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 3, wherein the measuring temperature at the second point is measuring air temperature away from the liquid.
5. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 1, the method further comprising: determining air temperature within a building hosting the plumbing system, wherein the decay is a function of the air temperature.
6. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 1, wherein a thermal mass of the plumbing system is determined over time to determine the predicted decay.
7. The method for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 1, wherein flow through the leak in the pipe is below a perceptible limit of the flow sensor.
8. A water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in a plumbing system, the water device comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories, wherein the one or more memories have machine readable instructions to: measure liquid flow within a pipe of the plumbing system with a flow sensor, wherein the flow sensor does not measure temperature; determine algorithmically using the flow sensor that there is no intentional liquid egress from the plumbing system caused by an open water fixture; measure temperature of the liquid over time at a point in the plumbing system upstream from a leak while there is no intentional liquid egress and no measured liquid flow as measured by the flow sensor; process measured temperature over time to determine whether a decay of the measured temperature exceeds a threshold decay of liquid in the plumbing system; and transmit a leak detected signal when the decay exceeds the threshold decay.
9. The water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in the plumbing system as recited in claim 8, wherein the process of measured temperature over time uses signal processing techniques to match the measured temperature to a leak profile.
10. The water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in the plumbing system as recited in claim 8, the one or more memories further having instructions to: measure temperature at a second point of the plumbing system; process a second measured temperature at the second point; and correct the processing the measured temperature using the second measured temperature.
11. The water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in the plumbing system as recited in claim 8, the one or more memories further having instructions to: determine air temperature within a building hosting the plumbing system, wherein the decay is a function of the air temperature.
12. The water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in the plumbing system as recited in claim 8, wherein a thermal mass of the plumbing system is determined over time to determine the predicted decay.
13. The water device for detecting small leaks of liquid in the plumbing system as recited in claim 8, wherein flow through the leak in the pipe is below a perceptible limit of the flow sensor.
14. One or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system having machine-executable instructions configured to: measure liquid flow within a pipe of the plumbing system with a flow sensor, wherein the flow sensor does not measure temperature; determine algorithmically using the flow sensor that there is no intentional liquid egress from the plumbing system caused by an open water fixture; measure temperature of the liquid over time at a point in the plumbing system upstream from a leak while there is no intentional liquid egress and no measured liquid flow as measured by the flow sensor; process measured temperature over time to determine whether a decay of the measured temperature exceeds a threshold decay of liquid in the plumbing system; and transmit a leak detected signal when the decay exceeds the threshold decay.
15. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 14, wherein the processing step uses signal processing techniques to match the measured temperature to a leak profile.
16. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 14, having machine-executable instructions configured to: measure temperature at a second point of the plumbing system; process a second measured temperature at the second point; and correct the processing the measured temperature using the second measured temperature.
17. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 16, wherein the measuring temperature at the second point is measuring air temperature away from the liquid.
18. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 14, having machine-executable instructions configured to: determine air temperature within a building hosting the plumbing system, wherein the decay is a function of the air temperature.
19. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 14, wherein a thermal mass of the plumbing system is determined over time to determine the predicted decay.
20. The one or more non-transitory machine-readable mediums for detecting small leaks in a plumbing system as recited in claim 14, wherein flow through the leak in the pipe is below a perceptible limit of the flow sensor.
</claims>
</document>
