<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANSAL, GAURAV
SINGH, DHEERAJ
SATAPATHY, SUNISH
DATTA, PRAJIT KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883787
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Security tool
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes devices, first and second cluster servers, and a global server. The first cluster server updates a second set of parameters for the first device and a first set of parameters for the second device. The second cluster server updates a fourth set of parameters for the third device and a third set of parameters for the fourth device. The global server updates the first set of parameters and the second set of parameters for the second cluster server and updates the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first cluster server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a plurality of mobile phones, a first mobile phone of the plurality of mobile phones configured to update a first set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the first mobile phone, a second mobile phone of the plurality of mobile phones configured to update a second set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the second mobile phone, a third mobile phone of the plurality of mobile phones configured to update a third set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the third mobile phone, a fourth mobile phone of the plurality of mobile phones configured to update a fourth set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the fourth mobile phone, the first set of parameters different from the second set of parameters, the third set of parameters different from the fourth set of parameters; a first cluster server configured to update the second set of parameters for the first mobile phone and to update the first set of parameters for the second mobile phone when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a first cluster threshold; a second cluster server configured to update the fourth set of parameters for the third mobile phone and to update the third set of parameters for the fourth mobile phone when a sum of a number of parameters of the third set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds a second cluster threshold; and a global server configured to: update the first set of parameters and the second set of parameters for the second cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a global threshold; and update the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the second set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first cluster server is further configured to update the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first and second mobile phones after the global server updates the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the global server is further configured to update the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters for a third cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters, a number of parameters of the second set of parameters, a number of parameters of the third set of parameters, and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the global server is further configured to update the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server when the third and fourth sets of parameters have not been updated for the first cluster server for a number of days.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first cluster server is further configured to communicate the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first mobile phone in response to the first mobile phone alerting the first cluster server that the first mobile phone failed to update the third set of parameters.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the global server is further configured to communicate the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first cluster server in response to the first cluster server alerting the global server that the first cluster server failed to update the third set of parameters.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first mobile phone is further configured to use the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to prevent a user action that poses a security risk.
8. A method comprising: updating, by a first device of a plurality of devices, a first set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the first device; updating, by a second device of the plurality of devices, a second set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the second device; updating, by a third device of the plurality of devices, a third set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the third device; updating, by a fourth device of the plurality of devices, a fourth set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the fourth device, the first set of parameters different from the second set of parameters, the third set of parameters different from the fourth set of parameters; updating, by a first cluster server, the second set of parameters for the first device and the first set of parameters for the second device when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a first cluster threshold; updating, by a second cluster server, the fourth set of parameters for the third device and the third set of parameters for the fourth device when a sum of a number of parameters of the third set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds a second cluster threshold; updating, by a global server, the first set of parameters and the second set of parameters for the second cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a global threshold; and updating, by the global server, the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the second set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating, by the first cluster server, the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first and second devices after updating, by the global server, the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating, by the global server, the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters for a third cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters, a number of parameters of the second set of parameters, a number of parameters of the third set of parameters, and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising updating, by the global server, the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server when the third and fourth sets of parameters have not been updated for the first cluster server for a number of days.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising communicating, by the first cluster server, the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first device in response to the first device alerting the first cluster server that the first device failed to update the third set of parameters.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising communicating, by the global server, the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first cluster server in response to the first cluster server alerting the global server that the first cluster server failed to update the third set of parameters.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising using, by the first device, the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to prevent a user action that poses a security risk.
15. An apparatus comprising: a memory; and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, the processor configured to: determine that a first device of a plurality of devices updated a first set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the first device; determine that a second device of the plurality of devices updated a second set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the second device; determine that a third device of the plurality of devices updated a third set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the third device; determine that a fourth device of the plurality of devices updated a fourth set of parameters in response to a user action performed on the fourth device, the first set of parameters different from the second set of parameters, the third set of parameters different from the fourth set of parameters; update the second set of parameters for the first device and the first set of parameters for the second device when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a first cluster threshold; update the fourth set of parameters for the third device and the third set of parameters for the fourth device when a sum of a number of parameters of the third set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds a second cluster threshold; update the first set of parameters and the second set of parameters for the second cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters and a number of parameters of the second set of parameters exceeds a global threshold; and update the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the second set of parameters and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first cluster server is further configured to update the third set of parameters and the fourth set of parameters for the first and second devices after the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server are updated.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to update the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters for a third cluster server when a sum of a number of parameters of the first set of parameters, a number of parameters of the second set of parameters, a number of parameters of the third set of parameters, and a number of parameters of the fourth set of parameters exceeds the global threshold.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to update the third and fourth sets of parameters for the first cluster server when the third and fourth sets of parameters have not been updated for the first cluster server for a number of days.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first cluster server is further configured to communicate the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first device in response to the first device alerting the first cluster server that the first device failed to update the third set of parameters.
20. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to communicate the first, second, third, and fourth set of parameters to the first cluster server in response to the first cluster server alerting the global server that the first cluster server failed to update the third set of parameters.
</claims>
</document>
