<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K29/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q50/02,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HERDX
</assignee>

<inventors>
HICKS, RONALD, B.
HARKLEROAD, SARAH C.
ADAMS, AUSTIN
SCHROEDER, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68383507
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Food supply tracking, authentication, and feedback system
</title>

<abstract>
Food supply may be tracked, authenticated, and evaluated by a variety of systems, processes, and techniques. In certain implementations, computer systems at various animal producers in the food supply chain (e.g., ranch and feedlot) may record and generate data regarding an animal (e.g., breed, age, location, hydration regimen, health history, etc.) and report this to a server system, which may process the data in an authenticated manner. Entities further down the chain (e.g., retailers) may access the server system to retrieve information about meat products and use this in sales efforts. Consumers may also retrieve information about meat products so that they may make informed buying decisions. Additionally, feedback may be provided to animal producers regarding the meat, which may encourage them to continue producing quality animals. Data may also be monetized, and a portion reinvested back to the food producer to assist in labor costs associated with system compliance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A food supply tracking, authentication, and feedback system, the system comprising: an electronic tag configured to be coupled to an animal; a first electronic tag reader system associated with an entity at which the animal is raised, the first electronic tag reader system adapted to sense the electronic tag and obtain animal data due to the sensing of the electronic tag; a second electronic tag reader system associated with an entity that processes the animal into meat packages, the second electronic tag reader system adapted to sense the electronic tag and associate at least one code for the meat packages with the animal; a server system that receives and stores data regarding the raising and processing of the animal, the server system configured to receive the code and provide authenticated data regarding the animal; and a code reader system associated with a retailer that offers the meat packages to consumers, the code reader system adapted to sense the code, send it to the server system, and receive data regarding the animal; wherein the server system analyzes the data regarding the raising and processing of multiple animals, revises instructions for the first electronic tag reader system based on the animal analysis, and sends the revised instructions to the first electronic tag reader system; and the first electronic tag reader system receives and implements the revised instructions to alter its operations, the first electronic tag reader system altering the health classification of an animal based on the revised instructions from the server system.
2. The food supply system of claim 1, wherein the electronic tag has a unique identifier that is associated with the animal by the server system.
3. The food supply system of claim 1, wherein the electronic tag facilitates monitoring the movements of the animal, and the server system is configured to determine the animal's health status based on the movements.
4. The food supply system of claim 1, wherein the server system is configured to receive, store, and provide data regarding the hydration regimen for the animal, and the server system is configured to determine the animal's health status based on the hydration regimen.
5. The food supply system of claim 4, wherein the hydration regimen data include hydration frequency and antioxidant water consumption.
6. The food supply system of claim 1, wherein the server system stores data regarding the health status of the animal over its life and its inoculation history.
7. The food supply system of claim 1, wherein the first electronic tag reader system alters the water composition for an animal based on the revised instructions from the server system.
8. The food supply system of claim 1, further comprising a code reader system associated with a consumer that purchases meat packages, the code reader system adapted to sense the code, send it to the server system, and receive data regarding the animal.
9. A food supply tracking, authentication, and feedback system, the system comprising: an electronic tag configured to be coupled to an animal; an electronic tag reader system associated with an entity at which the animal is raised, the electronic tag reader system adapted to sense the electronic tag and obtain animal data due to the sensing of the electronic tag; and a server system that receives and stores data regarding the raising of the animal, the server system configured to analyze the data regarding the raising of multiple animals, revise instructions for the electronic tag reader system based on the animal analysis, and send the revised instructions to the electronic tag reader system; wherein the electronic tag reader system receives and implements the revised instructions to alter its operations, the electronic tag reader system altering the health classification of an animal based on the revised instructions from the server system.
10. The food supply system of claim 9, wherein the electronic tag has a unique identifier that is associated with the animal by the server system.
11. The food supply system of claim 9, wherein the electronic tag facilitates monitoring the movements of the animal, and the server system is configured to determine the animal's health status based on the movements.
12. The food supply system of claim 9, wherein the server system is configured to receive, store, and provide data regarding the hydration regimen for the animal, and the server system is configured to determine the animal's health status based on the hydration regimen.
13. The food supply system of claim 12, wherein the hydration regimen data include hydration frequency and antioxidant water consumption.
14. The food supply system of claim 9, wherein the server system stores data regarding the health status of the animal over its life and its inoculation history.
15. The food supply system of claim 9, wherein the electronic tag reader system includes a water trough and a water control system, the electronic tag reader system being configured to alter the properties of water provided for an animal based on the revised instructions from the server system.
16. The food supply system of claim 9, further comprising a second electronic tag reader system associated with an entity that processes the animal into separate meat packages, the second tag reader system adapted to sense the electronic tag and associate at least one code for the meat packages with the animal.
17. The food supply system of claim 16, further comprising a computer system associated with a retailer that offers the meat packages to consumers, the computer system adapted to sense the code, send it to the server system, and receive data regarding the animal.
18. The food supply system of claim 16, further comprising a computer system associated with a consumer that purchases meat packages, the computer system adapted to sense the code, send it to the server system, and receive data regarding the animal.
19. The food supply system of claim 16, wherein the server system is configured to receive the code and provide authenticated data regarding the animal.
</claims>
</document>
