<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08C17/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANKS; JANO D.
SCALISE; ALBERT M.
BRENNER, ANDREW S.
PAINTER, CHRISTOPHER D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58615777
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining commands on a media device interface
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems and methods for a media controller configured to associate data from a media device received using a media device interface with actions on the media devices. The associated data and actions may be used to build a media device interface command map. The media device interface command map may be used by the media controller to control the media device. A user interface provided by the media controller may thus be used to control disparate devices, allowing for a coordinated and consistent user experience across multiple media devices, even when they are from different manufacturers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: at least one memory that stores computer-executable instructions; and at least one processor configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: receive a first media device command map from a first media controller device, wherein the first media device command map is for a first media device of a first type; receive a second media device command map from a second media controller device, wherein the second media device command map is for a second media device of the first type; determine that first command data in the first media device command map for a first media device action is different than second command data in the second media device command map for the first media device action; determine that third command data in a third media device command map for the first media device action is the same as the first command data; and generate a definitive media device command map for the first media device comprising the first command data for the first media device action.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: send data associated with the definitive media device command map to the second media controller device, wherein the definitive media device command map replaces the second media device command map at the second media controller device.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: determine that the first media device command map is missing command data for a second media device action; determine that the second media device command map comprises fourth command data for the second media device action; and send the fourth command data to the first media controller device.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the definitive media device command map for the first media device comprises the fourth command data for the second media device action.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: cause the first media controller device to update the first media device command map with the definitive media device command map; and cause the second media controller device to update the second media device command map with the definitive media device command map.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: determine a second media device action in the first media device command map that is associated with fourth command data; determine a third media device action in the second media device command map that is associated with fifth command data, wherein the fifth command data is the same as the fourth command data; generate a first erroneous command data notification for the second media device action; and generate a second erroneous command data notification for the third media device action.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the first media device command map and the second media device command map comprise command data that cause respective actions to be performed by the first media device.
8. A device comprising: at least one memory that stores computer-executable instructions; and at least one processor configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: receive a first media device command map from a first media controller device, wherein the first media device command map is for a first media device of a first type; receive a second media device command map from a second media controller device, wherein the second media device command map is for a second media device of the first type; determine a first media device action in the first media device command map that is associated with first command data; determine a second media device action in the second media device command map that is associated with second command data, wherein the second command data is the same as the first command data; determine that third command data in a third media device command map is associated with the first media device action, wherein the third command data is the same as the first command data; and generate a definitive media device command map for the first media device comprising the first command data for the first media device action.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: send data associated with the definitive media device command map to the second media controller device, wherein the definitive media device command map replaces the second media device command map at the second media controller device.
10. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: determine that the first media device command map is missing command data for a third media device action; determine that the second media device command map comprises fourth command data for the third media device action; and send the fourth command data to the first media controller device.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the definitive media device command map for the first media device comprises the fourth command data for the second media device action.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: cause the first media controller device to update the first media device command map with the definitive media device command map; and cause the second media controller device to update the second media device command map with the definitive media device command map.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: determine that fourth command data in the first media device command map for a third media device action is different than fifth command data in the second media device command map for the third media device action; and determine that sixth command data in the third media device command map for the third media device action is the same as the fourth command data; wherein the definitive media device command map for the first media device comprises the fourth command data for the third media device action.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the first media device command map and the second media device command map comprise command data that cause respective actions to be performed by the first media device.
15. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: compare the first command data in the first media device command map to the second command data in the second media device command map.
16. The device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to access the at least one memory and execute the computer-executable instructions to: generate a first erroneous command data notification for the second media device action.
17. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more computer processors coupled to at least one memory device, a first media device command map from a first media controller device, wherein the first media device command map is for a first media device of a first type; receiving a second media device command map from a second media controller device, wherein the second media device command map is for a second media device of the first type; determining that first command data in the first media device command map for a first media device action is different than second command data in the second media device command map for the first media device action; determining that third command data in a third media device command map for the first media device action is the same as the first command data; and generating a definitive media device command map for the first media device comprising the first command data for the first media device action.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining that the first media device command map is missing command data for a third media device action; determining that the second media device command map comprises fourth command data for the third media device action; and sending the fourth command data to the first media controller device.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining that fourth command data in the first media device command map for a third media device action is different than fifth command data in the second media device command map for the third media device action; and determining that sixth command data in the third media device command map for the third media device action is the same as the fourth command data; wherein generating the definitive media device command map for the first media device comprising the first command data for the first media device action comprises generating the definitive media device command map for the first media device comprising the first command data for the first media device action and the fourth command data for the third media device action.
</claims>
</document>
