<document>

<filing_date>
2013-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
WRIGHT, GARRETT BUCKMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51533028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for managing data
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for data management are disclosed. One method can comprise receiving first data from one or more data sources and forming a classification group from the one or more data sources based upon one or more classifiers. The method can also comprise generating an identifier for the classification group by applying a function to the first data and/or the one or more classifiers. Second data can be received from the one or more data sources of the classification group and the second data can be associated with the identifier of the classification group.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a first time, based on polling a first plurality of devices, from the first plurality of devices, first data indicating a plurality of parameters of the first plurality of devices; determining, based on the first plurality of devices, a first plurality of classifiers; determining, based on applying a hash function to the first plurality of classifiers, an identifier of a classification group; associating the identifier of the classification group with the first data; receiving, at a second time, based on polling a second plurality of devices, from the second plurality of devices, second data, wherein the second data indicates a plurality of parameters of the second plurality of devices; determining, based upon the second plurality of devices, a second plurality of classifiers; determining, based on a applying the hash function to the second plurality of classifiers, the identifier of the classification group; and associating the identifier of the classification group with the second data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the first data or the second data comprises a measured performance value.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of parameters of the first plurality of devices or the plurality of parameters of the second plurality of devices comprises at least one of: a capacity parameter, a bandwidth utilization parameter, a resource utilization parameter, a buffer status parameter, a percent utilization parameter, a data rate parameter, or a congestion parameter.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of classifiers or the second plurality of classifiers comprise at least one of: a device name, a port type, a port name, a geographic identifier, or a market identifier.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising comparing the second data to a comparator.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising applying a statistical analysis to the second data.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising analyzing, based on the identifier of the classification group, data associated with the classification group.
8. A method comprising: receiving, at a first time, first data from a plurality of devices, wherein the first data comprises a plurality of parameters from each device of the plurality of devices; determining, based on the plurality of devices, a plurality of classifiers; determining, based on applying a hash function to each combination of a plurality of combinations of the plurality of classifiers, a plurality of identifiers, wherein each identifier of the plurality of identifiers is associated with a classification group; associating, based on each combination of the plurality of combinations of the plurality of classifiers, the plurality of parameters with one or more identifiers of the plurality of identifiers; receiving, at a second time, second data from a select device of the plurality of devices, wherein the second data comprises a plurality of parameters from the select device; determining, based on the select device, a plurality of classifiers associated with the select device; determining, based on applying the hash function to the plurality of classifiers associated with the select device, select one or more identifiers of the plurality of identifiers; and associating the plurality of parameters from the select device with the select one or more identifiers of the plurality of identifiers.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein one or more of the first data or the second data comprises a measured performance value.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of devices comprises a plurality of network devices.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of classifiers comprise at least one of: of a device name, a port type, a port name, a geographic identifier, or a market identifier.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising comparing the second data to a comparator.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the comparator comprises a function of the first data.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising applying a statistical analysis to the second data.
15. A method comprising: receiving, at a first time from a plurality of devices, first data comprising one or more parameters of the plurality of devices; forming, based on one or more classifiers of the plurality of devices, a plurality of classification groups for the first data, wherein each classification group of the plurality of classification groups comprises one or more devices of the plurality of devices; determining, based on applying a hash function to the one or more classifiers of the plurality of devices, for each classification group of the plurality of classification groups, a corresponding identifier; detecting, based on second data received at a second time from one or more devices of the plurality of devices, an event; determining, based on a result of applying the hash function to the one or more classifiers associated with the one or more devices of the plurality of devices, a select classification group of the plurality of classification groups associated with the event; and analyzing, based on the select classification group of the plurality of classification groups associated with the event, data associated with the select classification group.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein one or more of the first data or the second data comprises a measured performance value.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more classifiers of the plurality of devices comprise at least one of: a device name, a port type, a port name, a geographic identifier, or a market identifier.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising comparing the second data to a comparator.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein further comprising applying a statistical analysis to the second data.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of classifiers or the second plurality of classifiers comprises a market location.
21. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of classifiers comprises a market location.
22. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more classifiers of the plurality of devices comprises a market location.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of devices or the second plurality of devices comprises one or more user devices.
</claims>
</document>
