<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/00,E21B44/04,E21B45/00,E21B47/024,E21B49/00,E21B7/04,G01V1/50,G01V11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUANTICO ENERGY SOLUTIONS
QUANTICO ENERGY SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
STORM, JR., BRUCE H.
ZHANG, BARRY FEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66658980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-time synthetic logging for optimization of drilling, steering, and stimulation
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure generally relates to a real-time synthetic logging method for optimizing one or more operations in a well. The method generally includes receiving measurements of one or more parameters in real time while performing operations in the well, the measurements being captured without using tools that include active nuclear sources. The method further includes providing the measurements as input to a machine learning algorithm (MLA) that is trained using historical or training well data. The method further includes generating, using the MLA and based on the measurements, a synthetic mechanical property log of the well. The method further includes generating, based on the synthetic mechanical property log, optimized parameters for at least one operation selected from the following list: drilling the well in real-time; steering the well in real-time; and stimulating a reservoir in real-time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A real-time synthetic logging method for optimizing one or more operations in a well, comprising: receiving measurements of one or more parameters in real time while performing operations in the well, wherein the measurements are captured without using tools that include active nuclear sources; providing the measurements as input to a machine learning algorithm (MLA) that is trained using historical or training well data; generating, using the MLA and based on the measurements, a synthetic mechanical property log of the well, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log comprises at least one option selected from the following list: a real-time synthesized porosity at or near the bit position; a real-time synthesized density at or near the bit position; and a real-time synthesized sonic velocity at or near the bit position; and determining one or more operations to perform within the well based on the synthetic mechanical property log.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises one of: a real-time synthesized unconfined compressive strength (UCS) at or near the bit position; or a real-time synthesized confined compressive strength (CCS) at or near the bit position.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters input to the MLA are measured exclusively at the surface.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters input to the MLA include survey data that is measured using a measurement while drilling (MWD) system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters input to the MLA include natural gamma data measured using a measurement while drilling (MWD) system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more parameters do not comprise: density; velocity; UCS; or CCS measured at or near the bit position.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises a real-time synthesized position of one or more formation tops relative to a bit location.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises a real-time synthesized seismic velocity at or near the bit position.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more operations to perform within the well comprises: determining values of one or more operational parameters based on the synthetic mechanical property log in order to optimize mechanical specific energy (MSE).
10. A computer-implemented method for optimizing a reservoir drilling process, comprising: determining a rock property comprising one of: a real-time unconfined compressive strength (UCS) at or near the bit position; or a real-time confined compressive strength (CCS) at or near the bit position; determining a mechanical specific energy (MSE) of the reservoir drilling process; determining an amount of energy required to rotate a drill string off-bottom; calculating a delta MSE by subtracting the amount of energy required to rotate the drill string off-bottom from the MSE; and determining, based on whether a ratio between the rock property and the delta MSE exceeds a threshold, whether to modify a parameter of the reservoir drilling process.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein determining the MSE is based on measurements of at least one of the following: a weight on bit (WOB), a cross-sectional area of bit, a rotational rate, an amount of torque applied, and a rate of penetration (ROP).
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the threshold represents an outer limit of a window in which the delta MSE is optimized with respect to the rock property.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: adjusting the parameter until the ratio between the rock property and the delta MSE falls below the threshold.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the parameter comprises one of: weight on bit (WOB); revolutions per minute (RPM), flow rate, or pressure.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform a real-time synthetic logging method for optimizing one or more operations in a well, the method comprising: receiving measurements of one or more parameters in real time while performing operations in the well, wherein the measurements are captured without using tools that include active nuclear sources; providing the measurements as input to a machine learning algorithm (MLA) that is trained using historical or training well data; generating, using the MLA and based on the measurements, a synthetic mechanical property log of the well, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log comprises at least one option selected from the following list: a real-time synthesized porosity at or near the bit position; a real-time synthesized density at or near the bit position; and a real-time synthesized sonic velocity at or near the bit position; and determining one or more operations to perform within the well based on the synthetic mechanical property log.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises one of: a real-time synthesized unconfined compressive strength (UCS) at or near the bit position; or a real-time synthesized confined compressive strength (CCS) at or near the bit position.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters are captured using a measurement while drilling (MWD) system.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more parameters do not comprise: density; velocity; UCS; or CCS.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises a real-time synthesized position of one or more formation tops relative to a bit location.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the synthetic mechanical property log of the well further comprises a real-time synthesized seismic velocity at or near the bit position.
</claims>
</document>
