<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/02,H01P3/16,H04B3/46,H04B3/54,H04B3/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69723647
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus for selectively controlling energy consumption of a waveguide system
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a system for determining from one or more conditions a range of energy that can be obtained from a transmission medium to power the first waveguide system, selecting according to the range of energy a group of components of a plurality of selectable components of the first waveguide system, and enabling the group of components and powering down a remainder of the plurality of selectable components, wherein the group of components facilitates an exchange of electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and a second waveguide system via the transmission medium. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a first waveguide system, a first range of energy that can be obtained from a transmission medium to power the first waveguide system; and enabling, by the first waveguide system, a first component of a plurality of components of the first waveguide system and powering down a first remainder of the plurality of components in accordance with the determining, wherein the first component facilitates a first exchange of first electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and a second waveguide system via the transmission medium.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first component comprises a first circuit, and wherein each of the plurality of components comprises at least one circuit.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring, by the first waveguide system, one or more conditions associated with electromagnetic wave communications between the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system via the transmission medium.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more conditions comprise a signal quality of the first electromagnetic waves, a charging capacity of a storage device of the first waveguide system, a range of energy a power supply of the first waveguide system is able to draw from the transmission medium, a time of day of operation of the first waveguide system, a user-generated condition, traffic conditions associated with data exchanges with communication devices communicatively coupled with the first waveguide system, or any combinations thereof.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: detecting a change in the one or more conditions resulting in one or more updated conditions.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining from the one or more updated conditions a second range of energy that can be obtained from the transmission medium to power the first waveguide system.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: selecting, by the first waveguide system according to the second range of energy, a second component of the plurality of components of the first waveguide system; and enabling, by the first waveguide system, the second component, wherein the second component facilitates a second exchange of second electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system via the transmission medium.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first component comprises a first repeater type of the first waveguide system, and wherein the second component comprises a second repeater type of the first waveguide system.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: supplying, by a storage device of the first waveguide system, energy to the second repeater type while the second repeater type is being utilized for facilitating the second exchange of the second electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system via the transmission medium; and charging, by a power supply of the first waveguide system, the storage device while the first repeater type is being utilized for facilitating the first exchange of the first electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system via the transmission medium.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the second component includes the first component.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the first electromagnetic waves facilitate a first bandwidth enabling a first data rate, and wherein the second electromagnetic waves facilitate a second bandwidth enabling a second data rate.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first data rate is below the second data rate.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first component comprises a first repeater type that consumes a first power level, wherein the first remainder of the plurality of the components comprises a second repeater type that consumes a second power level that differs from the first power level, and wherein the first power level is below the second power level.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the first waveguide system, a message to the second waveguide system that notifies the second waveguide system of a selection of the first component, wherein responsive to the message, the second waveguide system is reconfigured to exchange the first electromagnetic waves with the first waveguide system.
15. A first waveguide system, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: determining a first range of energy that can be obtained from a transmission medium to power the first waveguide system; and enabling a first group of components of a plurality of components of the first waveguide system and powering down a remainder of the plurality of components in accordance with the determining, wherein the first group of components facilitates an exchange of electromagnetic waves between the first waveguide system and a second waveguide system via the transmission medium.
16. The first waveguide system of claim 15, wherein a component of the plurality of components comprises executable software.
17. The first waveguide system of claim 15, wherein a component of the plurality of components comprises a circuit of the first waveguide system.
18. The first waveguide system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: monitoring one or more conditions associated with electromagnetic wave communications via the transmission medium, wherein the one or more conditions comprise a signal quality of the electromagnetic waves, a charging capacity of a storage device of the first waveguide system, a range of energy a power supply of the first waveguide system is able to draw from the transmission medium, a time of day of operation of the first waveguide system, a user-generated condition, or combinations thereof.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system of a waveguide system facilitates performance of operations, the operations comprising: determining from one or more conditions a first range of energy that can be obtained from a transmission medium to power the waveguide system; selecting, according to the determining of the first range of energy, a first function of a plurality of functions of the waveguide system; and enabling the first function and disabling a remainder of the plurality of functions, wherein the first function facilitates an exchange of electromagnetic waves between the waveguide system and a communication device via the transmission medium.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the one or more conditions comprise a signal quality of the electromagnetic waves, a charging capacity of a storage device of the waveguide system, a range of energy a power supply of the waveguide system is able to draw from the transmission medium, a time of day of operation of the waveguide system, a user-generated condition, or combinations thereof.
</claims>
</document>
