<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/289,G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GEE, JEFFREY DOUGLAS
KUMAR, DEEPAK
RAMANATH, ROHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848808
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Phrase placement for optimizing digital page
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for improving the accuracy, relevancy, and efficiency of a computer system of an online service by providing a user interface to optimize a digital page of a user on the online service are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a computer system receives a plurality of phrases, and then, for each one of the plurality of phrases, selects a corresponding section of a page of a first user to suggest for placement of the phrase from amongst a plurality of sections using a placement classifier, and generates a corresponding recommendation for the page of a first user based on the phrase and the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, with the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the phrase to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system having a memory and at least one hardware processor, a plurality of phrases; for each one of the plurality of phrases, selecting, by the computer system, a corresponding section of a page of a first user to suggest for placement of the phrase from amongst a plurality of sections using a placement classifier, the placement classifier configured to determine the corresponding section based on the phrase; for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating, by the computer system, a corresponding recommendation for the page of a first user based on the phrase and the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the phrase to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user; and causing, by the computer system, the generated recommendations for the page of the first user to be displayed on a first computing device of the first user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sections comprises at least one of a summary section, a skill section, a work experience section, and an education section.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the causing the generated recommendations to be displayed on the first computing device of the first user comprises causing a corresponding selectable user interface element to be displayed in association with each one of the generated recommendations, and the computer-implemented method further comprises: receiving, by the computer system, a user selection of the corresponding selectable user interface element of one of the displayed recommendations from the first computing device of the first user; and in response to the user selection, generating, by the computer system, causing the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element to be displayed in a text field of the determined corresponding section of the extracted phrase on the first computing device of the first user, the text field being configured to receive user-entered text.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, an instruction from the first computing device of the first user to save the user-entered text that is in the text field to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, the user-entered text comprising at least a portion of the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element; and storing, by the computer system, the user-entered text including the at least a portion of the extracted phrase in a database in association with the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising using the received instruction to save the user-entered text to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user as training data in a machine learning algorithm configured to train the placement classifier.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, by the computer system, an instruction from the first computing device of the first user to save the user-entered text that is in the text field to a different section of the page of the first user other than the determined corresponding section, the user-entered text comprising at least a portion of the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element; and storing, by the computer system, the user-entered text including the at least a portion of the extracted phrase in a database in association with the different section of the page of the first user.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising using the received instruction to save the user-entered text to the different section of the page of the first user as training data in a machine learning algorithm configured to train the placement classifier.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the page comprises a profile page of the first user that is associated with a profile of the first user, the profile being stored in a database of an online service in association with a profile of the first user.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the page comprises a resume of the first user that is included in an application to a job posting of the type of job via an online service.
10. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a plurality of phrases; for each one of the plurality of phrases, selecting a corresponding section of a page of a first user to suggest for placement of the phrase from amongst a plurality of sections using a placement classifier, the placement classifier configured to determine the corresponding section based on the phrase; for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating a corresponding recommendation for the page of a first user based on the phrase and the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the phrase to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user; and causing the generated recommendations for the page of the first user to be displayed on a first computing device of the first user.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of sections comprises at least one of a summary section, a skill section, a work experience section, and an education section.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the causing the generated recommendations to be displayed on the first computing device of the first user comprises causing a corresponding selectable user interface element to be displayed in association with each one of the generated recommendations, and the operations further comprise: receiving a user selection of the corresponding selectable user interface element of one of the displayed recommendations from the first computing device of the first user; and in response to the user selection, generating causing the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element to be displayed in a text field of the determined corresponding section of the extracted phrase on the first computing device of the first user, the text field being configured to receive user-entered text.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an instruction from the first computing device of the first user to save the user-entered text that is in the text field to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, the user-entered text comprising at least a portion of the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element; and storing the user-entered text including the at least a portion of the extracted phrase in a database in association with the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise using the received instruction to save the user-entered text to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user as training data in a machine learning algorithm configured to train the placement classifier.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an instruction from the first computing device of the first user to save the user-entered text that is in the text field to a different section of the page of the first user other than the determined corresponding section, the user-entered text comprising at least a portion of the extracted phrase corresponding to the selected user interface element; and storing the user-entered text including the at least a portion of the extracted phrase in a database in association with the different section of the page of the first user.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise using the received instruction to save the user-entered text to the different section of the page of the first user as training data in a machine learning algorithm configured to train the placement classifier.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the page comprises a profile page of the first user that is associated with a profile of the first user, the profile being stored in a database of an online service in association with a profile of the first user.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein the page comprises a resume of the first user that is included in an application to a job posting of the type of job via an online service.
19. A non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one hardware processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a plurality of phrases; for each one of the plurality of phrases, selecting a corresponding section of a page of a first user to suggest for placement of the phrase from amongst a plurality of sections using a placement classifier, the placement classifier configured to determine the corresponding section based on the phrase; for each one of the plurality of phrases, generating a corresponding recommendation for the page of a first user based on the phrase and the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user, the recommendation comprising a suggested addition of the phrase to the determined corresponding section of the page of the first user; and causing the generated recommendations for the page of the first user to be displayed on a first computing device of the first user.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the plurality of sections comprises at least one of a summary section, a skill section, a work experience section, and an education section.
</claims>
</document>
