<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/258,H04N21/262,H04N21/414,H04N21/4335,H04W4/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHUMASH, TZVI
AUSTIN, MARK D.
MCENROE, MARTIN PATRICK
DING, YUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325985
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Pre-positioning of streaming content onto communication devices for future content recommendations
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating pre-positioning of streaming content onto communication devices is provided herein. A system can comprise a processor and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations. The operations can comprise facilitating an identification of a first multimedia content stream and a second multimedia content stream. The identification can be based on a usage preference of a defined entity associated with a communication device. The operations can also comprise, in response to a determination that an available network satisfies a defined network criterion, facilitating pre-positioning, at a data store of the communication device, the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: facilitating an identification of a first multimedia content stream and a second multimedia content stream, wherein the identification of the first multimedia content stream is based on a first usage preference that comprises a first viewing length, and the second multimedia content stream is based on a second usage preference that comprises a second viewing length, and wherein the first usage preference and the second usage preference are associated with a defined entity associated with a communication device; and in response to a determination that an available network satisfies a defined network criterion, facilitating pre-positioning, at a data store of the communication device, the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream, wherein the first viewing length and the second viewing length comprise respective time intervals that are longer, by a defined interval, than a third viewing length associated with previously viewed multimedia content streams.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the defined network criterion is a network type, and wherein the operations further comprise: prior to allowing the facilitating the pre-positioning, receiving a selection of the network type as the defined network criterion; and prohibiting the pre-positioning of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream in response to the communication device being determined to be in communication with a communications network that is not the network type identified as the defined network criterion.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the network type is a type assigned to a Wi-Fi network.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the determination is a first determination, and wherein the operations further comprise: in response to a second determination that a power supply capacity of the communication device is below a defined power supply capacity, prohibiting the pre-positioning of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream on the communication device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the determination is a first determination, and wherein the operations further comprise: in response to a second determination that a storage capacity of the data store is below a defined storage capacity, prohibiting the pre-positioning of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream on the communication device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the facilitating the pre-positioning further comprise: facilitating the pre-positioning, at the communication device, of a first portion of the first multimedia content stream and a second portion of the second multimedia content stream, wherein the first portion and the second portion comprise respective viewing lengths that comprise respective time intervals that are longer than the third viewing length associated with the previously viewed multimedia content streams by a defined length.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: removing, the first multimedia content stream from the data store based on an indication received from the communication device that the first multimedia content stream is not of interest to the defined entity, and wherein removal of the first multimedia content stream from the data store discontinues recommendations of multimedia content streams associated with the first usage preference utilized to recommend the first multimedia content stream.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the determination that the available network satisfies the defined network criterion is a first determination, and the operations further comprise: in response to a second determination that the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream were not consumed during a defined time interval, removing the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream from the data store; and in response to a third determination that a third multimedia content stream satisfies a third usage preference and the available network continues to satisfy the defined network criterion, facilitating the pre-positioning, at the data store of the communication device, the third multimedia content stream.
9. A method, comprising: facilitating, by a network device of a wireless network and comprising a processor, an identification of a first multimedia content stream that satisfies a first usage parameter and a second multimedia content stream that satisfies a second usage parameter, wherein the first usage parameter and the second usage parameter are usage parameters determined to be associated with an identified entity of a communication device, and wherein the first usage parameter comprises a first viewing length and the second usage parameter comprises a second viewing length associated with previously viewed multimedia content streams; and in response to a determination that an available network satisfies a defined network criterion and a parameter of the communication device satisfies a defined parameter, facilitating, by the network device, a preloading of a first portion of the first multimedia content stream and a second portion of the second multimedia content stream at a data store of the communication device, wherein the first viewing length and the second viewing length comprise respective time intervals that are longer, by a defined interval, than a third viewing length associated with the previously viewed multimedia content streams.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the defined parameter comprises a remaining battery power level of the communication device, and wherein the method further comprises: prohibiting, by the network device, the preloading of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream based on the remaining battery power level being determined to be below the defined parameter.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the defined parameter comprises a remaining storage level of the data store, and wherein the method further comprises: prohibiting, by the network device, the preloading of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream based on the remaining storage level of the data store being determined to be below the defined parameter.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the defined network criterion comprises an identified network that does not specify a bandwidth usage limitation.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: prior to facilitating pre-positioning, receiving, by the network device, a notification of a network type as the defined network criterion; and prohibiting, by the network device, the preloading of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream when the communication device is being serviced by a communications network that is not the network type identified as the defined network criterion.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the determination is a first determination, wherein the preloading is a first preloading, and wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the network device, an acceptance of the first multimedia content stream based on a consumption of the first multimedia content stream at the communication device; and in response to a second determination that the available network satisfies the defined network criterion and the parameter of the communication device satisfies the defined parameter, facilitating, by the network device, a second preloading of a third multimedia content stream at the data store of the communication device.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the determination is a first determination, wherein the available network is a first available network, wherein the preloading is a first preloading, and wherein the method further comprises: facilitating, by the network device, removal of the first multimedia content stream and the second multimedia content stream from the data store after a defined time interval; and in response to a second determination that a second available network satisfies the defined network criterion and the parameter of the communication device satisfies the defined parameter, facilitating, by the network device, a second preloading of a third multimedia content stream at the data store of the communication device, wherein the third multimedia content stream satisfies a third usage parameter determined to be associated with the identified entity of the communication device, and wherein the third usage parameter is different than the first usage parameter and the second usage parameter.
16. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: evaluating usage preferences of a defined entity of a communication device, wherein the usage preferences comprise historical viewing habits of the defined entity, the usage preferences comprise a first viewing length and a second viewing length associated with previously viewed multimedia content streams; based on a first determination that a first multimedia content stream conforms to the usage preferences of the defined entity, a second determination that a network parameter satisfies a defined network parameter, and a third determination that a device capability satisfies a defined device capability, facilitating a first preloading of a first portion of the first multimedia content stream to a data store of the communication device; and based on an indication received from the communication device that the first multimedia content stream has been consumed at the communication device, and a fourth determination that the network parameter continues to satisfy the defined network parameter, facilitating a second preloading of a second portion of a second multimedia content stream to the data store of the communication device, wherein the second multimedia content stream is related to the first multimedia content stream, and wherein the first viewing length and the second viewing length comprise respective time intervals that are longer, by a defined interval, than a third viewing length associated with the previously viewed multimedia content streams.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the defined device capability is an available storage capacity of the data store being above a defined storage capacity.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the defined device capability is an available battery power capacity of the data store being above a defined battery power capacity.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: facilitating measurements of respective viewing lengths associated with previously viewed multimedia content streams; and facilitating pre-positioning, at the communication device, the first portion of the first multimedia content stream and the second portion of the second multimedia content stream, wherein the first portion comprises the first viewing length and the second portion comprises the second viewing length, and wherein the first viewing length and the second viewing length comprise respective time intervals that are longer than the respective viewing lengths associated with the previously viewed multimedia content streams by the defined interval.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a remaining battery power level of the communication device is below a defined power level; and prohibiting the first preloading of the first portion of the first multimedia content stream and the second preloading of the second portion of the second multimedia content stream based on the remaining battery power level being determined to be below the defined power level.
</claims>
</document>
