<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B06B1/06,B81B3/00,G01S15/02,G01S15/89,G01S7/52,G01S7/521,G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/063,H01H1/00,H01J49/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORNELL UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAL, AMIT
ARDANUC, SERHAN
KUO, JUSTIN C.
HOOPLE, JASON T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51984960
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computation devices and artificial neurons based on nanoelectromechanical systems
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques, systems, and devices are described for implementing for implementing computation devices and artificial neurons based on nanoelectromechanical (NEMS) systems. In one aspect, a nanoelectromechanical system (NEMS) based computing element includes: a substrate; two electrodes configured as a first beam structure and a second beam structure positioned in close proximity with each other without contact, wherein the first beam structure is fixed to the substrate and the second beam structure is attached to the substrate while being free to bend under electrostatic force. The first beam structure is kept at a constant voltage while the other voltage varies based on an input signal applied to the NEMS based computing element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A semiconductor integrated circuit device having wireless ultrasonic communication links, comprising: a semiconductor substrate; layers formed over the semiconductor substrate and patterned to form circuit elements including transistors; and an array of ultrasound transducers formed in the layers over the semiconductor substrate, each ultrasound transducer including ultrasound transducer elements which are operable to generate an ultrasound signal carrying information to communicate with one or more ultrasound transducers in the array and are operable to receive an incident ultrasound signal from one or more ultrasound transducers, the ultrasound transducers being communicatively coupled to respective individual circuit elements or blocks of two or more circuit elements of the circuit elements formed in the layers over the semiconductor substrate to act as communication nodes for the respective individual circuit elements or blocks of two or more circuit elements with other individual circuit elements or blocks of two or more circuit elements, wherein each ultrasound transducer in the array of ultrasound transducers is configured to control transmission or reception of the ultrasound transducers so that the ultrasound transducers in the array of ultrasound transducers are interconnected via ultrasound signals to form an ultrasound communication network of ultrasonic communication links, without hardwiring via metal contacts, between the circuit elements formed in the layers over the semiconductor substrate.
2. The device as in claim 1, wherein: the ultrasound transducers are formed in one layer of the layers over the semiconductor substrate.
3. The device as in claim 2, further comprising: a reflector layer formed over the semiconductor substrate to provide a boundary to reflect an ultrasound signal from one ultrasound transducer to another ultrasound transducer.
4. The device as in claim 1, wherein: the ultrasound transducers are formed in two or more different layers over the semiconductor substrate as a three-dimensional array.
5. The device as in claim 4, further comprising: an acoustic waveguide in at least one of the semiconductor substrate or the layers over the semiconductor substrate having the array of ultrasound transducers to effectuate transmission of the ultrasound signal from one ultrasound transducer to another ultrasound transducer.
6. The device as in claim 5, wherein the acoustic waveguide provides frequency filtering to transmit only ultrasonic waves of certain frequency or mode while attenuating or obstructing the passage of undesired frequencies.
7. The device as in claim 1, wherein: the layers formed over the semiconductor substrate include (1) front-end-of-line (FEOL) layers that are formed and patterned to include the circuit elements including transistors, and (2) back-end-of-line (BEOL) layers over the FEOL layers to include wired interconnects between the ultrasound transducers and respective individual circuit elements or blocks of two or more circuit elements of the circuit elements formed in the layers.
8. The device as in claim 1, further comprising: transducer driver circuits coupled to the array of ultrasound transducers, respectively, where each transducer driver circuit is configured to drive ultrasound transducer elements within a corresponding ultrasound transducer with different ultrasound transducer element control signals having respective control signal phase delays to collectively form a respective ultrasound signal and steer the respective ultrasound signal to a targeted ultrasound transducer, wherein each transducer driver circuit is coupled between a corresponding ultrasound transducer and a corresponding individual circuit element or a corresponding block of two or more circuit elements.
9. The device as in claim 8, wherein: the layers formed over the semiconductor substrate include (1) front-end-of-line (FEOL) layers that are formed and patterned to include the circuit elements including transistors and the transducer driver circuits, and (2) back-end-of-line (BEOL) layers over the FEOL layers to include wired interconnects between the ultrasound transducers and respective individual circuit elements or blocks of two or more circuit elements of the circuit elements formed in the layers.
10. The device as in claim 8, wherein: each transducer driver circuit includes a phase generation circuit to control phase delays of different ultrasound transducer elements within each ultrasound transducer.
11. The device as in claim 1, further comprising: physical acoustic structures in the layers formed over the semiconductor substrate to facilitate guiding of ultrasound signals from ultrasound transducers.
12. The device as in claim 11, wherein: the physical acoustic structures include metal reflectors for reflecting sound.
13. The device as in claim 1, further comprising: transducer driver circuits coupled to the array of ultrasound transducers, respectively, where each transducer driver circuit is configured to drive ultrasound transducer elements within a corresponding ultrasound transducer with different ultrasound transducer element control signals having respective control signal phase delays to collectively form a respective ultrasound signal and steer the respective ultrasound signal to a targeted ultrasound transducer, wherein each transducer driver circuit is coupled between a corresponding ultrasound transducer and a corresponding individual circuit element or a corresponding block of two or more circuit elements, and wherein the transducer driver circuits are configured to control or adjust ultrasonic communication links between the respective ultrasound transducers to effectuate various interconnects between the circuit elements for different circuit functions, thus providing a programmable circuit device.
14. The device as in claim 1, further comprising: a monitor circuit coupled to the array of ultrasound transducers to read out output signals from the ultrasound transducers and to process an output signal from an ultrasound transceiver to extract a local condition that is reflected in a received ultrasound signal at the ultrasound transceiver, rendering the array of ultrasound transducers to function as an array of circuit sensors for monitoring the device operating conditions.
15. The device as in claim 14, wherein: the monitor circuit is configured to monitor a temperature at different locations within the device.
16. The device as in claim 14, wherein: the monitor circuit is configured to monitor conditions of physical contacts at different locations within the device.
17. The device as in claim 1, further comprising: a circuit security verification circuit coupled to the array of ultrasound transducers to read out output signals from the ultrasound transducers and to process an output signal from an ultrasound transceiver to extract a physical signature that is reflected in a received ultrasound signal at the ultrasound transceiver to provide an indication of whether a circuit layout of the device matches a predetermined circuit layout.
18. The device as in claim 1, wherein: the semiconductor substrate is formed of a substrate material that includes silicon; an ultrasound transducer element within each ultrasound transducer includes a piezoelectric material layer that includes aluminum nitride (AlN), and the layers formed over the semiconductor substrate and patterned to form circuit elements are complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) layers.
19. The device as in claim 1, wherein: an ultrasound transducer element within each ultrasound transducer includes a piezoelectric material layer that includes lead zirconate titanate.
</claims>
</document>
