<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
KURANI, ASHISH B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73823494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for providing intelligent electronic communications
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods to provide an intelligent electronic communication to a consumer device includes a recommendation engine configured to access consumer data, determine an adverse account event based, at least in part, on the consumer data, correlate the consumer account to a consumer group based, at least in part, on the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group, generate an intelligent electronic communication comprising one or more ranked product recommendations based, at least in part, on at least one of the adverse account event or the consumer group, the one or more ranked product recommendations configured to include one or more unutilized product recommendations, determine whether to provide the intelligent electronic communication to a consumer device according to an intelligent delivery mode, and cause the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device in accordance with the intelligent delivery mode.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing an intelligent electronic communication to a consumer device, the method comprising: accessing consumer data regarding a consumer account; determining an adverse account event regarding the consumer account based on the consumer data; generating, by a clustering process, a consumer group defined by a common characteristic of consumer activity; correlating the consumer account to the consumer group based, at least in part, on the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group; generating an intelligent electronic communication comprising one or more ranked product recommendations that are specific to the adverse account event based, at least in part, on the adverse account event and the consumer group, the one or more ranked product recommendations configured to include one or more unutilized product recommendations; determining an intelligent delivery mode and delivery period to provide the intelligent electronic communication to the consumer device by determining that consumers in the consumer group are responsive to an intelligent electronic communication provided via the determined intelligent delivery mode and delivery period based on consumer response metrics associated with the consumer group; and causing the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device in accordance with the intelligent delivery mode and delivery period.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the intelligent delivery mode comprises at least one of a delivery location or an electronic communication type.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the generation of the intelligent electronic communication further comprises: determining one or more products corresponding to the consumer account; and determining at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations based on the one or more products corresponding to the consumer account.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generation of the intelligent electronic communication further comprises: determining one or more products corresponding to the consumer group; and determining at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations based on the one or more products corresponding to the consumer group.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generation of the intelligent electronic communication further comprises: generating an aggregated list of at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations; and ranking the at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or the one or more utilized product recommendations of the aggregated list, wherein the intelligent electronic communication comprising the one or more ranked product recommendations is configured to provide an indication of consumer activity corresponding to the consumer group.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the clustering process is a k-means clustering (KMC) process.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing of the distribution of the intelligent electronic communication to the consumer device further comprises: receiving a consumer device location; determining a delivery location corresponding to the consumer device location; and causing the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device according to the delivery location, wherein the delivery location corresponds to at least one of the consumer data corresponding to the consumer account or the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing of the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device further comprises: preventing the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device according to the delivery period.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the consumer data comprises at least one of a consumer account balance, consumer asset data, consumer liability data, or consumer financial pattern.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the consumer data comprises an aggregated population of at least a portion of the consumer data.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the intelligent electronic communication further comprises a utilized product recommendation.
12. A computer system configured to provide an intelligent electronic communication to a consumer device, the computer system comprising: access consumer data regarding a consumer account; determine an adverse account event regarding the consumer account based on the consumer data; generate, by a clustering process, a consumer group defined by a common characteristic of consumer activity; correlate the consumer account to the consumer group based, at least in part, on the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group; generate an intelligent electronic communication comprising one or more ranked product recommendations that are specific to the adverse account event based, at least in part, on the adverse account event and the consumer group, the one or more ranked product recommendations configured to include one or more unutilized product recommendations; determine an intelligent delivery mode and delivery period to provide the intelligent electronic communication to the consumer device by determining that consumers in the consumer group are responsive to an intelligent electronic communication provided via the determined intelligent delivery mode and delivery period based on consumer response metrics associated with the consumer group; and cause the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device in accordance with the intelligent delivery mode and delivery period.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the intelligent delivery mode comprises at least one of a delivery location or an electronic communication type.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the generation of the intelligent electronic communication further comprises: determining one or more products corresponding to the consumer account; and determining at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations based on the one or more products corresponding to the consumer account.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the generation of the intelligent electronic communication further comprises: determining one or more products corresponding to the consumer group; and determining at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations based on the one or more products corresponding to the consumer group.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the generation of intelligent electronic communication further comprises: generating an aggregated list of at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or one or more utilized product recommendations; and ranking the at least one of the one or more unutilized product recommendations or the one or more utilized product recommendations of the aggregated list, wherein the intelligent electronic communication comprising the one or more ranked product recommendations is configured to provide an indication of consumer activity corresponding to the consumer group.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the clustering process is a k-means clustering (KMC) process.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the causing of the distribution of the intelligent electronic communication to the consumer device further comprises: receiving a consumer device location; determining a delivery location corresponding to the consumer device location; and causing the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device according to the delivery location, wherein the delivery location corresponds to at least one of the consumer data corresponding to the consumer account or the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the causing of the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device further comprises: preventing the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device according to the delivery period.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the consumer data comprises at least one of a consumer account balance, consumer asset data, consumer liability data, or consumer financial pattern.
21. The system of claim 12, wherein the consumer data comprises an aggregated population of at least a portion of the consumer data.
22. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to configure an apparatus to: access consumer data regarding a consumer account; determine an adverse account event regarding the consumer account based on the consumer data; generate, by a clustering process, a consumer group defined by a common characteristic of consumer activity; correlate the consumer account to the consumer group based, at least in part, on the consumer data corresponding to the consumer group; generate an intelligent electronic communication comprising one or more ranked product recommendations that are specific to the adverse account event based, at least in part, on the adverse account event and the consumer group, the one or more ranked product recommendations configured to include one or more unutilized product recommendations; determine an intelligent delivery mode and delivery period to provide the intelligent electronic communication to a consumer device by determining that consumers in the consumer group are responsive to an intelligent electronic communication provided via the determined intelligent delivery mode and delivery period based on consumer response metrics associated with the consumer group; and cause the intelligent electronic communication to be distributed to the consumer device in accordance with the intelligent delivery mode and delivery period.
</claims>
</document>
