<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G06Q30/02,H04B7/155,H04W4/02,H04W8/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOMINGUEZ, BRIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60483869
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitation of real-time interactive feedback
</title>

<abstract>
A real-time customer survey system can be implemented by monitoring real-time and previous location data associated with a customer. The system can analyze the location data in accordance with customer preferences, customer social media profiles, and/or information that has been inferred by the system. The location data can be obtained in multiple forms including video, audio, wireless device communications, etc. The location data, in conjunction with customer preference data can be presented to the customer in the form of an avatar, an audio output, a video output, and/or haptic feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first wireless network device comprising a processor, a first indication that a mobile device is within a range of the first wireless network device; monitoring, by the first wireless network device, a location of the mobile device while within the range of the first wireless network device; in response to the monitoring the location of the mobile device and a second indication that an object is within the range of the first wireless network device, generating, by the first wireless network device, an avatar to prompt for feedback associated with the object and with a customer identity of the mobile device, wherein the prompt comprises: verbally asking a question, directing the customer to traverse a determined path, and initiating haptic feedback, from a floor, to be experienced by a customer associated with the customer identity to receive feedback data, wherein the haptic feedback directs the customer to the determined path to be traversed, associated with the object, from a second wireless network device; and in response to the verbally asking the question, receiving, by the first wireless network device, an answer to the question as a thumb gesture associated with the feedback data related to the object and associated with the customer identity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring comprises monitoring the location of the mobile device for a third indication that the mobile device is within a defined range of the first wireless network device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the prompt comprises a request for the thumb gesture of a customer associated with the customer identity to be determined by the mobile device.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the thumb gesture is assigned a numerical value in accordance with how many times the thumb gesture is determined to have been performed.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, by the first wireless network device, that the thumb gesture is associated with a predetermined action.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: sending, by the first wireless network device, action data, associated with the predetermined action, to the mobile device, wherein the action data comprises navigational data related to a route to be potentially taken by the mobile device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring comprises monitoring the location of the mobile device for a third indication that the mobile device is within a defined range of the second wireless network device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the feedback data comprises a numerical value related to a quality associated with the object as indicated by the customer identity.
9. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining that a mobile device is within a range of a first wireless network device; monitoring a location of the mobile device while within the range of the first wireless network device; based on the location of the mobile device and an indication that an item of interest is within the range of the first wireless network device, generating an avatar to prompt for feedback, associated with the item of interest, attributable to a user identity of the mobile device, wherein the prompt comprises verbally asking a question directed to a user attributable to a user identity, related to the feedback associated with the item of interest, from a second wireless network device different from the first wireless network device, and wherein the prompt further comprises directing the user to traverse a determined path via haptic feedback from a floor; and in response to the verbally asking the question, receiving feedback data as a thumbs up gesture from the user attributable to the user identity that was input in response to the prompt.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the location is a first location, and wherein the operations further comprise: presenting a second location associated with the item of interest, wherein the presenting comprises presenting route data associated with the second location.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the item of interest is a first item of interest, and wherein the operations further comprise: presenting a second item of interest and a third location of potential interest to the user identity via the avatar.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the avatar prompts for the feedback data by the verbally asking the question to which an expected answer relates to the item of interest.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the receiving the feedback data comprises receiving the expected answer to the question as the thumbs up gesture determined to be associated with the user identity.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the receiving the feedback data comprises receiving audio data representing a verbal indication determined to be associated with the user identity.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the item of interest is a first item of interest, and wherein the operations further comprise: receiving the feedback data based on an action determined to be associated with the user identity, and wherein the action comprises a route associated with a second item of interest.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to determining that a mobile device of a wireless network is within a range of a first wireless network device of the wireless network, determining a location of the mobile device; based on the location of the mobile device and an indication that an item is within the range of the first wireless network device, instructing that an avatar issue a verbal prompt for feedback related to the item and a user identity associated with the mobile device, wherein the verbal prompt comprises a request to receive feedback data, associated with the item, from a second wireless network device of the wireless network, and wherein the verbal prompt further comprises prompting a user associated with the user identity to traverse a determined path in accordance with a haptic feedback from a floor; and in response to the avatar having issued the verbal prompt for the feedback, receiving the feedback data in a form of a thumb down gesture in response to the verbal prompt.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the verbal prompt for the feedback comprises a presentation of a game that requests the feedback data.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the verbal prompt for the feedback comprises a presentation experienced by a user associated with the user identity.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the verbal prompt for the feedback is based on a time of day.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise generating preference data for the user identity in relation to a time of day.
</claims>
</document>
