<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/36,G06F8/36,G06F8/65,G06F9/44,G06F9/445
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRASAD, MUKUL
YOSHIDA, HIROAKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Refinement of repair patterns for static analysis violations in software programs
</title>

<abstract>
According to an aspect of an embodiment, operations may include retrieving a set of repair patterns and a second set of violations of software programs. The operations may further include selecting an unfixed violation from the retrieved second set of violations and a repair pattern from the set of repair patterns. The operations may further include executing a first set of operations for refinement of repair patterns. The first set of operations may include applying the selected repair pattern on the selected unfixed violation, removing the applied repair pattern from the set of repair patterns based on the determination that a repair result corresponds to a violation. The first set of operations may further include reselecting next repair pattern as the selected repair pattern. The operations may further include obtaining a refined set of repair patterns by iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: retrieving a set of repair patterns, wherein each of the set of repair patterns is learned based on a first set of repair examples associated with a first set of violations of software programs; retrieving a second set of violations of the software programs, wherein each of the second set of violations is an unfixed violation; selecting an unfixed violation of a first software program from the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; selecting a repair pattern from the set of repair patterns; executing a first set of operations for the refinement of the set of repair patterns, wherein the first set of operations comprise: applying the selected repair pattern on the selected unfixed violation to generate a repair result, determining whether the generated repair result corresponds to a violation, removing the applied repair pattern from the set of repair patterns based on the determination that the generated repair result corresponds to the violation, and reselecting next repair pattern in the set of repair patterns as the selected repair pattern; and obtaining a refined set of repair patterns by iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns based on the selected repair pattern.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second set of violations are of same violation type.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein each of the set of repair patterns corresponds to one or more edit operations, as the repair example, to repair the corresponding violation of the first set of violations or the second set of violations in the software programs.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns based on the iteratively executing the first set of operations for each of the retrieved second set of violations.
5. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: generating a second set of repair examples by iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns, wherein the first set of operations further comprise: determining whether the generated repair result corresponds to a repair of the selected unfixed violation based on the applied repair pattern, generating a repair example associated with the selected unfixed violation based on the determination that the generated repair result corresponds to the repair of the selected unfixed violation, and adding the generated repair example in the second set of repair examples.
6. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: receiving a user input to select at least one repair example from the generated second set of repair examples; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns by adding the selected at least one repair example as a repair pattern to the set of repair patterns.
7. The method according to claim 5, further comprising: generating the second set of repair examples by iteratively executing the first set of operations for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; receiving a user input to select at least one repair example from the generated second set of repair examples for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns by adding the selected at least one repair example as a repair pattern to the set of repair patterns for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs.
8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving a newly discovered violation of a second software program from a database; applying one of the refined set of repair patterns on the received newly discovered violation; and generating a repaired second software program based on the application of one of the refined set of repair patterns on the received newly discovered violation.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the second set of violations of the software programs are retrieved from a database.
10. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media configured to store instructions that, in response to being executed, cause a system to perform operations, the operations comprising: retrieving a set of repair patterns, wherein each of the set of repair patterns is learned based on a first set of repair examples associated with a first set of violations of software programs; retrieving a second set of violations of the software programs, wherein each of the second set of violations is an unfixed violation; selecting an unfixed violation of a first software program from the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; selecting a repair pattern from the set of repair patterns; executing a first set of operations for the refinement of the set of repair patterns, wherein the first set of operations comprise: applying the selected repair pattern on the selected unfixed violation to generate a repair result, determining whether the generated repair result corresponds to a violation, removing the applied repair pattern from the set of repair patterns based on the determination that the generated repair result corresponds to the violation, and reselecting next repair pattern in the set of repair patterns as the selected repair pattern; and obtaining a refined set of repair patterns by iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns based on the selected repair pattern.
11. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, wherein the second set of violations are of same violation type.
12. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, wherein each of the set of repair patterns corresponds to one or more edit operations, as the repair example, to repair the corresponding violation of the first set of violations in the software programs.
13. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, further comprising: iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns based on the iteratively executing the first set of operations for each of the retrieved second set of violations.
14. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, further comprising: generating a second set of repair examples by iteratively executing the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns, wherein the first set of operations further comprise: determining whether the generated repair result corresponds to a repair of the selected unfixed violation based on the applied repair pattern, generating a repair example associated with the selected unfixed violation based on the determination that the generated repair result corresponds to the repair of the selected unfixed violation, and adding the generated repair example in the second set of repair examples.
15. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 14, further comprising: receiving a user input to select at least one repair example from the generated second set of repair examples; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns by adding the selected at least one repair example as a repair pattern to the set of repair patterns.
16. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 14, further comprising: generating the second set of repair examples by iteratively executing the first set of operations for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; receiving a user input to select at least one repair example from the generated second set of repair examples for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; and obtaining the refined set of repair patterns by adding the selected at least one repair example as a repair pattern to the set of repair patterns for each of the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs.
17. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, further comprising: receiving a newly discovered violation of a second software program from a database; applying one of the refined set of repair patterns on the received newly discovered violation; and generating a repaired second software program based on the application of one of the refined set of repair patterns on the received newly discovered violation.
18. The one or more computer-readable storage media according to claim 10, wherein the second set of violations of the software programs are retrieved from a database.
19. An electronic device, comprising: a processor configured to: retrieve a set of repair patterns, wherein each of the set of repair patterns is learned based on a first set of repair examples associated with a first set of violations of software programs; retrieve a second set of violations of the software programs, wherein each of the second set of violations is an unfixed violation; select an unfixed violation of a first software program from the retrieved second set of violations of the software programs; select a repair pattern from the set of repair patterns; execute a first set of operations for the refinement of the set of repair patterns, wherein the first set of operations comprise: apply the selected repair pattern on the selected unfixed violation to generate a repair result, determine whether the generated repair result corresponds to a violation, remove the applied repair pattern from the set of repair patterns based on the determination that the generated repair result corresponds to the violation, and reselect next repair pattern in the set of repair patterns as the selected repair pattern; and obtain a refined set of repair patterns by iterative execution of the first set of operations for the set of repair patterns based on the selected repair pattern.
20. The electronic device according to claim 19, wherein the second set of violations of the software programs are retrieved from a database.
</claims>
</document>
