<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F21/53,G06F21/55,G06F21/56,G06F21/57,G06F9/44
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHARIFI MEHR, NIMA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72289842
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Measuring effectiveness of intrusion detection systems using cloned computing resources
</title>

<abstract>
A simulated attack service of a computing resource service provider generates a cloned computing resource environment on which a simulated attack is executed. The cloned computing resource environment may be based at least in part on a computing resource environment including a set of computing resources. The simulated attack service may execute the simulated attack by at least directing a simulated attack payload to the cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on a signature included in the simulated attack payload. A measure of the effectiveness of an intrusion detection system may then be generated based at least in part on threat analysis information generated by the intrusion detection system and the simulated attack payloads of the simulated attack.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a set of cloned computing resource environments based at least in part on metadata associated with a set of computing resource environments provided by a computing resource service provider, the metadata maintained by the computer resource service provider and indicating access information to a set of computing resources operated by a set of customers within the set of computing resource environments, a cloned computing resource environment of the set of cloned computing resource environments containing at least one computing resource modified based at least in part on the metadata; generating a set of simulated attack payloads of a simulated attack, a simulated attack payload of the set of simulated attack payloads including a signature indicating the simulated attack and additional metadata to allow a threat analysis service to determine a simulated attack pattern associated with the simulated attack payload and bind the simulated attack payload to the simulated attack by at least differentiating the set of simulated attack payloads from other network traffic; transmitting the set of simulated attack payloads; causing the set of simulated attack payloads to be distributed to the cloned computing resource environment of the set of cloned computing resource environments based at least in part on the signature; obtaining diagnostic information from computing resources of the cloned computing resource environment; generating threat analysis information based at least in part on processing the diagnostic information by the threat analysis service based at least in part on the additional metadata; and generating a measure of effectiveness of the threat analysis service based at least in part on the threat analysis information and the simulated attack.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of computing resource environments is selected based at least in part on one or more attributes of the set of customers associated with the set of computing resource environments.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the measure of effectiveness of the threat analysis service includes a false negative rate of the threat analysis service to detect one or more simulated attack payloads of the set of simulated attack payloads of the simulated attack.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one cloned computing resource environment of the set of cloned computing resource environments includes a computing resource provided by a service of the computing resource service provider.
5. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory that stores computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to: generate a cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on metadata associated with a set of computing resources included in a computing resource environment provided by a computing resource service provider, the metadata indicates a structure of data maintained by a subset of computing resources of the set of computing resources, where the cloned computing resource environment contains at least one computing resource of the set of computing resources that is modified based at least in part on the metadata associated with the set of computing resources; execute a simulated attack by at least: generating a set of simulated attack payloads, at least one simulated attack payload of the set of simulated attack payloads including a signature indicating the simulated attack and a tag to allow a threat analysis service to determine a simulated attacker associated with the at least one simulated attack payload, the tag enabling the threat analysis service to differentiate the set of simulated attack payloads from other traffic; and transmitting the set of simulated attack payloads; obtain threat analysis information generated based at least in part on the threat analysis service processing diagnostic information obtained from the cloned computing resource environment after receiving the at least one simulated attack payload, the threat analysis information indicating the at least one simulated attack payload is associated with the simulated attacker based at least in part on the tag included in the at least one simulated attack payload; and generate a measure of effectiveness of the threat analysis service based at least in part on a comparison of the threat analysis information and the set of simulated attack payloads.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein computer-executable instructions that cause the one or more processors to transmit the set of simulated attack payloads further includes computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to transmit the set of simulated attack payloads to an interface of the computing resource service provider, the interface directing the set of simulated attack payloads to the cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on the signature.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the signature includes a user agent associated with at least one simulated attack payload of the set of simulated attack payloads.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the signature includes a role associated with at least one simulated attack payload of the set of simulated attack payloads.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein the memory further includes computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to detect a trigger to execute the simulated attack, the trigger generated based at least in part on a modification to a model utilized by the threat analysis service.
10. The system of claim 5, wherein the memory further includes computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to provide the measure of effectiveness of the threat analysis service to a user associated with the computing resource environment.
11. The system of claim 5, wherein the memory further includes computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to provide a suggested modification to the computing resource environment based at least in part on the measure of effectiveness of the threat analysis service.
12. The system of claim 5, wherein computer-executable instructions that cause the one or more processors to generate the cloned computing resource environment further include computer-executable instructions that, as a result of being executed, cause the one or more processors to modify a set of permissions associated with the at least one computing resource of the set of computing resources.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: generate a cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on first metadata associated with a set of computing resources included in a computing resource environment, the first metadata obtained from a computing resource service provider, indicating credential information for accessing computing resources of the set of computing resources, and comprising a set of logs generated by the set of computing resources, where the set of logs are modified to include an indication of a simulated attack payload; generate the simulated attack payload of a simulated attack, the simulated attack payload including second metadata used to determine that the simulated attack payload is associated with the simulated attack and directed to the cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on a signature included in the simulated attack payload, where the signature allows the computer system to differentiate the simulated attack payload from other network traffic; and determine a measure of effectiveness of an intrusion detection system by at least: obtaining threat analysis information generated by the intrusion detection system based at least in part on the simulated attack, the threat analysis information indicating that the simulated attack payload is associated with the simulated attack based at least in part on the second metadata including the signature; and comparing information associated with the simulated attack and the threat analysis information.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to generate the cloned computing resource environment further include instructions that cause the computer system to instantiate a virtual machine instance based at least in part on an image of at least one computing resource of the set of computing resources included in the computing resource environment.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to determine to clone the computing resource environment based at least in part on a number of computing resources included in the set of computing resources.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to update the cloned computing resource environment based at least in part on the computing resource environment as a result of the simulated attack.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the measure of effectiveness further comprises a latency of the intrusion detection system to detect the simulated attack payload of the simulated attack.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the measure of effectiveness further comprises a measure of the intrusion detection system identifying an appropriate severity associated with the simulated attack payload.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the instructions that cause the system to generate the cloned computing resource environment further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to modify a set of permissions associated with the cloned computing resource environment.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the set of permissions further comprises a permission of the set of permissions that, as a result of being enforced by an interface, causes requests associated with the second metadata to be directed to the cloned computing resource environment.
</claims>
</document>
