<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/46,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
THUBERT, PASCAL
WETTERWALD, PATRICK
LEVY-ABEGNOLI, ERIC
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61904886
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed and centralized modes for isolation networks
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a networking device in a local area network (LAN) receives an instruction from a server to form a virtual network overlay in the LAN that redirects traffic associated with a particular node in the LAN to the server for analysis. The networking device establishes the virtual network overlay in the LAN to redirect traffic associated with the particular node to the server. The networking device determines that at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node should be processed locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server and adjusts the virtual network overlay to process the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a networking device in a local area network (LAN), an instruction from a server to form a virtual network overlay in the LAN that initially redirects all traffic associated with a particular node in the LAN to the server for analysis; establishing, by the networking device, the virtual network overlay in the LAN to redirect all traffic associated with the particular node to the server; determining, by the networking device, that at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node should be processed locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server; and adjusting, by the networking device, the virtual network overlay to process the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the networking device is a network gateway.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein determining that at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node should be processed locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server comprises: receiving, at the networking device, an instruction from the server to adjust the virtual network overlay.
4. The method as in claim 3, wherein the instruction comprises a machine learning-based behavioral model, wherein the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is processed locally in the LAN by: controlling, by the networking device, whether the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is sent to a destination based on an analysis of the portion of the traffic using the received machine learning-based behavioral model.
5. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: readjusting, by the networking device, the virtual overlay to again redirect the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node to the server for analysis.
6. The method as in claim 5, wherein the virtual overlay is readjusted in response to determining the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is anomalous.
7. The method as in claim 5, wherein the virtual overlay is readjusted in response to expiration of a timer.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is of a predefined traffic type.
9. A method, comprising: instructing, by a server, one or more networking devices in a local area network (LAN) to form a virtual network overlay in the LAN that initially redirects all traffic associated with a particular node in the LAN to the server; receiving, at the server, the redirected traffic associated with the particular node; controlling, by the server, whether the redirected traffic reaches a destination of the traffic based on an analysis of the traffic; and instructing, by the server, the one or more networking devices to adjust the virtual network overlay in the LAN to process the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server.
10. The method as in claim 9, wherein instructing the one or more networking devices to adjust the virtual network overlay comprises: training, by the server, a machine learning-based behavioral model for at least the portion of traffic associated with the particular node; and sending, by the server, the behavioral model to one of the one or more networking devices to locally analyze the portion of traffic associated with the particular node using the behavioral model.
11. The method as in claim 9, wherein instructing the one or more networking devices to adjust the virtual network overlay comprises: instructing, by the server, the one or more networking devices in the LAN to readjust the virtual network overlay to again redirect the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node to the server for analysis if the one or more networking devices determine that the portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is anomalous or after expiration of a timer.
12. The method as in claim 9, wherein instructing the one or more networking devices to adjust the virtual network overlay comprises: identifying, by the server and to the one or more networking devices, a predefined traffic type of the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node.
13. The method as in claim 9, wherein the one or more networking devices comprise a network gateway of the LAN.
14. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a local area network (LAN); a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed operable to: receive an instruction from a server to form a virtual network overlay in the LAN that initially redirects all traffic associated with a particular node in the LAN to the server for analysis; establish the virtual network overlay in the LAN to redirect all traffic associated with the particular node to the server; determine that at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node should be processed locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server; and adjust the virtual network overlay to process the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server.
15. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein the apparatus is a network gateway.
16. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein the apparatus determines that at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node should be processed locally within the LAN and not via redirection to the server by: receiving an instruction from the server to adjust the virtual network overlay.
17. The apparatus as in claim 16, wherein the instruction comprises a machine learning-based behavioral model, and wherein the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is processed locally in the LAN by: controlling whether the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is sent to a destination based on an analysis of the portion of the traffic using the received machine learning-based behavioral model.
18. The apparatus as in claim 14, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: readjust the virtual overlay to again redirect the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node to the server for analysis.
19. The apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the virtual overlay is readjusted in response to determining the at least a portion of the traffic associated with the particular node is anomalous.
20. The apparatus as in claim 18, wherein the virtual overlay is readjusted in response to expiration of a timer.
</claims>
</document>
