<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,B64D47/02,B64D47/08,E05B65/10,E05F15/72,G05D1/10,G08B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR, SURENDER
SLUSAR, MARK V.
HAYES, HOWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425812
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Emergency incident detection, response, and mitigation using autonomous drones
</title>

<abstract>
A system may be configured to detect an emergency condition at a premises; dispatch one or more autonomous drones to a location associated with the emergency condition; receive from the one or more autonomous drones, sensor data associated with the emergency condition; generate, based on the sensor data, a plan identifying an evacuation route for safely evacuating the premises; and transmit an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to one or more persons in a vicinity of the emergency condition, the evacuation route. The system may further detect, based on the sensor data, one or more safe areas in the premises, and the evacuation route may pass through at least one of the one or more safe areas.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a computing platform comprising at least one processor, at least one memory, and at least one communication interface: detecting, by the at least one processor, an emergency condition at a premises; upon detecting the emergency condition, dispatching, by the at least one processor, one or more autonomous drones to a location associated with the emergency condition; receiving, by the at least one processor, via the at least one communication interface, from the one or more autonomous drones, sensor data associated with the emergency condition; generating, by the at least one processor, based on the sensor data, a plan identifying an evacuation route for safely evacuating the premises where the emergency condition is present; and transmitting, by the at least one processor, via the at least one communication interface, an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to one or more persons in a vicinity of the emergency condition, the evacuation route.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting, by the at least one processor, based on the sensor data, one or more safe areas in the premises, wherein the evacuation route passes through at least one of the one or more safe areas.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the emergency condition is a fire, wherein the detecting of the one or more safe areas is based on one or more of temperature data captured by a temperature sensor onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, smoke data captured by a smoke detector onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, and image data captured by a camera onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the emergency condition comprises a hazardous material, wherein the detecting of the one or more safe areas is based on data captured by a hazardous material sensor onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the evacuation route passes through a locked door, the method further comprising transmitting an instruction to a premises automation system that causes the locked door to unlock.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the at least one processor, a location of one or more first responders; determining, by the at least one processor, a location of a person in need of assistance; generating, by the at least one processor, a plan identifying a route from the one or more first responders to the person in need of assistance; and transmitting, by the at least one processor, via the at least one communication interface, an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to the one or more first responders, the route to the person in need of assistance.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting of the emergency condition at the premises comprises: receiving second sensor data from one or more sensors at the premises; transmitting the second sensor data to a computing device associated with a reviewer; and receiving an indication of the emergency condition from the computing device associated with the reviewer.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the second sensor data is captured by one or more of a security system and the one or more autonomous drones.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining, by the at least one processor, the location associated with the emergency condition based on the second sensor data and a map of the premises.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising, prior to the detecting of the emergency condition: receiving, by the at least one processor, from the one or more autonomous drones, third sensor data; and generating, by the at least one processor, based on the third sensor data, the map of the premises.
11. A computing platform comprising: at least one processor; a communication interface communicatively coupled to the at least one processor; and memory storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing platform to: detect an emergency condition at a premises; upon detecting the emergency condition, dispatch one or more autonomous drones to a location associated with the emergency condition; receive, from the one or more autonomous drones, via the communication interface, sensor data associated with the emergency condition; generate, based on the sensor data, a plan identifying an evacuation route for safely evacuating the premises where the emergency condition is present; and transmit, via the communication interface, an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to one or more persons in a vicinity of the emergency condition, the evacuation route.
12. The computing platform of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the computing platform to detect, based on the sensor data, one or more safe areas in the premises, wherein the evacuation route passes through at least one of the one or more safe areas.
13. The computing platform of claim 12, wherein the emergency condition is a fire, and wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing platform to determine the one or more safe areas based on one or more of temperature data captured by a temperature sensor onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, smoke data captured by a smoke detector onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, and image data captured by a camera onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones.
14. The computing platform of claim 12, wherein the emergency condition comprises a hazardous material, and wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the computing platform to detect the one or more safe areas based on data captured by a hazardous material sensor onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones.
15. The computing platform of claim 11, wherein the evacuation route passes through a locked door, and wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the computing platform to transmit an instruction to a premises automation system that causes the locked door to unlock.
16. The computing platform of claim 11, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the computing platform to: determine a location of one or more first responders; determine a location of a person in need of assistance; generate a plan indicating a route from the one or more first responders to the person in need of assistance; and transmit, via the communication interface, an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to the one or more first responders, the route to the person in need of assistance.
17. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing platform comprising at least a processor, memory, and a communication interface, cause the computing platform to: detect an emergency condition at a premises; upon detecting the emergency condition, dispatch one or more autonomous drones to a location associated with the emergency condition; receive, from the one or more autonomous drones, via the communication interface, sensor data associated with the emergency condition; generate, based on the sensor data, a plan indicating an evacuation route for safely evacuating the premises where the emergency condition is present; and transmit, via the communication interface, an instruction that causes the one or more autonomous drones to indicate, to one or more persons in a vicinity of the emergency condition, the evacuation route.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing platform, further cause the computing platform to detect, based on the sensor data, one or more safe areas in the premises, and wherein the evacuation route passes through at least one of the one or more safe areas.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 18, wherein the emergency condition is a fire, and wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing platform, cause the computing platform to determine the one or more safe areas based on one or more of temperature data captured by a temperature sensor onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, smoke data captured by a smoke detector onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones, and image data captured by a camera onboard one of the one or more autonomous drones.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the evacuation route passes through a locked door, and wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing platform, further cause the computing platform to transmit an instruction to a premises automation system that causes the locked door to unlock.
</claims>
</document>
