<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/4063,G05B19/4068,G05B19/409,G06F21/30,G06F3/048
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GLOWFORGE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOSSELIN, MARK
HAUG, SCOTT
SHAPIRO, DANIEL
WRIGHT, ANTHONY
Wright, Linden
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60703102
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-user computer-numerically-controlled machine
</title>

<abstract>
A method for accessing a computer-numerically-controlled machine can include receiving a command to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine. A hardware state of a component in the computer-numerically-controlled machine can be determined by receiving, from the component, data indicative of the hardware state. An origin of the command including a user identification of a user who sent the command and/or a machine identification of a device that sent the command can be determined. Whether the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the command can be determined by applying a set of rules and based on the hardware state and/or the origin of the command. In response to determining that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the command, the command can be executed at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: generating, by at least one sensor operatively coupled to a computer-numerically-controlled machine, an image of a material within an interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the computer-numerically-controlled machine comprising a head configured to deliver an electromagnetic energy to effect a change in the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the image depicting a shape of at least a portion of the material; in response to determining that a user and/or a device associated with the user have a permission to receive the image, sending, to the device associated with the user, at least a portion of the image; receiving, at the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a command to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the command being generated at the device associated with the user based at least in part on the image depicting the shape of at least a portion of the material; determining a hardware state of a component in the computer-numerically-controlled machine by at least receiving, from the component, data indicative of the hardware state; identifying an origin of the command, the origin of the command comprising a user identification of the user who sent the command and/or a machine identification of the device; determining, based at least on the hardware state of the component and/or the origin of the command, that the command is allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the determining includes applying a set of rules defining when the computer-numerically controlled machine is allowed to execute the command; and in response to determining that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the command, executing the command at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising defining, at a device configured to communicate with the computer-numerically-controlled machine, permissions comprising an administrator-level permission and/or a lower-level permission, the administrator-level permission including an ability to modify the command based at least on the origin of the command being associated with the lower-level permission.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising defining, at a device configured to communicate with the computer-numerically-controlled machine, an owner of a job, the job comprising instructions for at least partially executing a motion plan at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the component in the computer-numerically-controlled machine comprises a sensor configured to capture data from the computer-numerically-controlled machine, and wherein the command comprises a request to transmit, to the device, at least a portion of the data captured by the sensor.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computer-numerically-controlled machine is configured to execute a job comprising executing at least a portion of a motion plan, wherein the job is associated with a completion state defined by at least the completion of the motion plan, and wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine when the origin of the command is associated with a lower-level permission unless the origin of the command is an owner of the job and the job is completed according to the completion state.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed unless the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine is removed from the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying, at the device, a graphical representation of at least one of the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a current user of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a status of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a remaining time of a job being executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a waiting user scheduled to use the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a delay time between consecutive uses of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, and a schedule of jobs queued to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically controlled machine based at least on the command being associated with a motion plan requiring a different type of material than the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising: verifying the type of the material at least by analyzing the image of the material and comparing the image to a library of known material types.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of rules includes one or more operation limits of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, and wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine based at least on the command being associated with a motion plan that conflicts with the set of rules.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine based at least on the user who sent the command being locked out of the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising disabling the computer-numerically-controlled machine in response to the command being a disable command and a determination that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the disable command.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the disabling comprises at least one of shutting down the head delivering the electromagnetic energy and shutting down the computer-numerically-controlled machine according to a pre-programmed sequence, and wherein the pre-programmed sequence is configured to minimize a difference in an appearance of a finished work-product relative to an appearance of the finished work-product machined without a shutdown.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the hardware state of the component includes a speed of the head, a position of the head, and/or a power of the electromagnetic energy delivered by the head.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, from a plurality of users at one or more devices communicatively coupled with the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the user as being associated with the image.
16. A system comprising: at least one data processor; and at least one memory including instructions, which when executed by the at least one data processor, cause operations comprising: generating, by at least one sensor operatively coupled to a computer-numerically-controlled machine, an image of a material within an interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the computer-numerically-controlled machine comprising a head configured to deliver an electromagnetic energy to effect a change in the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the image depicting a shape of at least a portion of the material; in response to determining that a user and/or a device associated with the user have a permission to receive the image, sending, to the device associated with the user, at least a portion of the image; receiving, at the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a command to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the command being generated at the device associated with the user based at least in part on the image depicting the shape of at least a portion of the material; determining a hardware state of a component in the computer-numerically-controlled machine by at least receiving, from the component, data indicative of the hardware state; identifying an origin of the command, the origin of the command comprising a user identification of the user who sent the command and/or a machine identification of the device; determining, based at least on the hardware state of the component and/or the origin of the command, that the command is allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the determining includes applying a set of rules defining when the computer-numerically controlled machine is allowed to execute the command; and in response to determining that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the command, executing the command at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising defining, at a device configured to communicate with the computer-numerically-controlled machine, permissions comprising an administrator-level permission and/or a lower-level permission, the administrator-level permission including an ability to modify the command based at least on the origin of the command being associated with the lower-level permission.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising: defining, at the device, an owner of a job comprising instructions for at least partially executing a motion plan at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the computer-numerically-controlled machine is configured to execute a job comprising executing at least a portion of a motion plan, wherein the job is associated with a completion state defined by at least the completion of the motion plan, and wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine when the origin of the command is associated with a lower-level permission unless the origin of the command is an owner of the job and the job is completed according to the completion state.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed unless the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine is removed from the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
21. The system of claim 16, further comprising: displaying, at the device, a graphical representation of at least one of the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a current user of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a status of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a remaining time of a job being executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a waiting user scheduled to use the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a delay time between consecutive uses of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, and a schedule of jobs queued to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically controlled machine based at least on the command being associated with a motion plan requiring a different type of material than the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
23. The system of claim 22, further comprising: verifying the type of material at least by analyzing the image and comparing the image to a library of known material types.
24. The system of claim 16, wherein the set of rules includes one or more operation limits of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, and wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine based at least on the command being associated with a motion plan that conflicts with the set of rules.
25. The system of claim 16, wherein the command is not allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine based at least on the user who sent the command being locked out of the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
26. The system of claim 16, further comprising disabling the computer-numerically-controlled machine in response to the command being a disable command and a determination that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the disable command.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the disabling comprises at least one of shutting down the head delivering the electromagnetic energy and shutting down the computer-numerically-controlled machine according to a pre-programmed sequence, and wherein the pre-programmed sequence is configured to minimize a difference in an appearance of a finished work-product relative to an appearance of the finished work-product machined without a shutdown.
28. A non-transitory computer medium including program code, which when executed by at least one data processor, cause the operations comprising: generating, by at least one sensor operatively coupled to a computer-numerically-controlled machine, an image of a material within an interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the computer-numerically-controlled machine comprising a head configured to deliver an electromagnetic energy to effect a change in the material within the interior space of the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the image depicting a shape of at least a portion of the material; in response to determining that a user and/or a device associated with the user have a permission to receive the image, sending, to the device associated with the user, at least a portion of the image; receiving, at the computer-numerically-controlled machine, a command to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the command being generated at the device associated with the user based at least in part on the image depicting the shape of at least a portion of the material; determining a hardware state of a component in the computer-numerically-controlled machine by at least receiving, from the component, data indicative of the hardware state; identifying an origin of the command, the origin of the command comprising a user identification of the user who sent the command and/or a machine identification of the device; determining, based at least on the hardware state of the component and/or the origin of the command, that the command is allowed to be executed by the computer-numerically-controlled machine, the determining includes applying a set of rules defining when the computer-numerically controlled machine is allowed to execute the command; and in response to determining that the computer-numerically-controlled machine is allowed to execute the command, executing the command at the computer-numerically-controlled machine.
</claims>
</document>
