<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W52/02,H04W76/27,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHLUWALIA, INDERPREET
JIA, YUPENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69883813
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Reduction of power consumption for 5G or other next generation network non-standalone devices
</title>

<abstract>
Control parameters can be used to enable or disable new radios (NR) of mobile devices and preserve battery life. For example, the control parameters can comprise a scan timer and a sleep timer. A mobile device can decode a network message, turn on an NR, and enable the scan timer. If an NR cell is available, the mobile device can enter LTE-NR dual connectivity mode in response to the network message. Conversely, when the scan timer expires, the mobile device can turn off the NR radio, and enable the sleep timer to preserve the mobile device battery. When the sleep timer expires, the mobile device can turn on the NR radio and enable the scan timer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a user equipment comprising a processor, system information block data representative of a system information block, wherein the system information block data comprises upper layer indication data representative of an upper layer indication; in response to the receiving the system information block data, decoding, by the user equipment, the system information block data and enabling a scan timer associated with a new radio of the user equipment; in response to a condition, associated with a new radio cell being determined to be available for a transmission, being satisfied, modifying, by the user equipment, a mode of the user equipment; in response to disabling the scan timer, enabling a sleep timer of the user equipment; and based on a location of the user equipment, reducing a duration of a time associated with the sleep timer from a first duration associated with enabling the sleep timer to a second duration associated with enabling the sleep timer.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the condition comprises a determination that the new radio cell is available for the transmission, and further comprising: changing, by the user equipment, the mode to an evolved universal terrestrial radio access mode.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: in response to the scan timer being determined to have expired, disabling, by the user equipment, the new radio.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: wherein enabling the sleep timer is further in response to the scan timer being determined to have expired.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the condition comprises a determination that the new radio cell is not available for the transmission, and further comprising: in response to the scan timer expiring, disabling, by the user equipment, the new radio to preserve a battery life associated with the user equipment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the condition comprises a determination that the new radio cell is not available for the transmission, and further comprising: in response to the scan timer expiring, enabling, by the user equipment, a sleep timer associated with the user equipment.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the scan timer is controlled by a service provider.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the sleep timer is controlled by a service provider.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the new radio comprises a subdivided signal spectrum and the subdivided signal spectrum comprises a gigahertz spectrum and a millimeter wave spectrum.
10. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving system information block data representative of a system information block, wherein the system information block data comprises upper layer indication data representative of an upper layer associated with a network; in response to the receiving the system information block data, enabling a scan timer associated with a new radio of a user equipment; in response to a condition associated with a new radio cell being determined to be available for a transmission being satisfied, alternating a mode of the user equipment; in response to disabling the scan timer, enabling a sleep timer of the user equipment; and based on a location of the user equipment, reducing a duration of a time associated with the sleep timer from a first duration associated with enabling the sleep timer to a second duration associated with enabling the sleep timer.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the scan timer indicates a third duration for the new radio to be enabled.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: generating an indication that the user equipment can disable the new radio.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the indication is generated by the sleep timer of the user equipment.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving the system information block data, enabling the new radio of the user equipment.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving system information block data representative of a system information block, wherein the system information block data comprises upper layer indication data representative of an upper layer associated with a network; in response to the receiving the system information block data: enabling a scan timer of a mobile device of the network; and enabling a new radio of the mobile device; in response to a determination that a new radio cell is unavailable for a transmission, disabling the scan timer; in response to the disabling the scan timer, enabling a sleep timer of the mobile device; and based on a location of the mobile device, reducing a duration of a time associated with the sleep timer from a first duration associated with enabling the sleep timer to a second duration associated with enabling the sleep timer.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein a time associated with the scan timer has been determined to have expired.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving an indication that the mobile device comprises a capability to disable the new radio.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the sleep timer is controlled by a service provider.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the determination that the new radio cell is unavailable, modifying a mode of the mobile device.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein modifying the mode comprises modifying the mode to an evolved universal terrestrial radio access mode.
</claims>
</document>
