<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06F3/048,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TWITTER
</assignee>

<inventors>
MUTHUKUMAR, MADHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58446980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Social media messaging platform for creating and sharing moments
</title>

<abstract>
A messaging platform is configured to exchange social media messages, over a network, among a plurality of user devices each of which is executing a social media messaging application. The messaging platform is configured to provide, over the network, a moment of an event discussed by the social media messages for selection on a user interface of the social media messaging application. The moment is a collection of items that relate to the event, where the collection of items includes one or more selected messages that have been exchanged on the messaging platform that relate to the event. The collection of items can include text, video, and/or images of the event. When selected, the moment provides a display of the collection of items such that a user can view each item of the moment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of sharing selectable moment messages in a social media network, the method comprising: transmitting digital information, over a network, to render a timeline of a first user on a user interface of a client application, the timeline including a stream of messages posted by users having user accounts linked to a user account of the first user in a connection graph; transmitting digital information, over the network, to render a selectable moment message on the user interface of the client application, the selectable moment message being associated with an event discussed on a messaging platform, wherein, before selection by the first user, the selectable moment message displays contextual information about the event, the selectable moment message being linked to a plurality of messages posted on the messaging platform by one or more users about the event, wherein selection of the selectable moment message by the first user causes the client application to open the selectable moment message to display a sequence of the plurality of messages, scrollable by the first user, that relate to the event; receiving follower selection information, over the network, from the client application, the follower selection information indicating that a user interface object has been selected by the first user to follow the event over time; injecting, during a course of the event and after receipt of the follower selection information, a message posted by a second user to the messaging platform about the event into the stream of messages rendered on the timeline of the first user, wherein a user account of the second user is not linked to the user account of the first user within the connection graph; and removing the message posted by the second user from the stream of messages rendered on the timeline of the first user in response to an expiration of the event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the digital information includes display format data indicating a manner in which the plurality of messages are to be displayed, wherein the display format data indicates to display at least one of the plurality of messages of the selectable moment message in full display format.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the selectable moment message is linked to a first item having at least one of image or text that describes the event and a last item that indicates that the first user is caught up on the event, the plurality of messages being disposed between the first item and the last item.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: linking an additional message posted by a third user on the messaging platform with the selectable moment message during the course of the event such that the additional message is inserted into the sequence of the plurality of messages of the selectable moment message.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of messages displays a progress bar that indicates the first user's progress through the sequence of the plurality of messages.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving moment creation information from the second user, the moment creation information identifying the plurality of messages for the selectable moment message; and generating the selectable moment message based on the moment creation information.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying at least one of the event or the plurality of messages linked to the selectable moment message based on machine-learning resources implemented at the messaging platform, the machine-learning resources being inputted with signals that include at least one of trends, buzz, user preferences, or previous user engagements; and periodically updating weights applied to the signals based on actual selections of users.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a request to embed the selectable moment message; and generating hypertext markup language (HTML) data for the selectable moment message in response to the request.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a message posted by the first user to the messaging platform, the message identifying the selectable moment message; and transmitting, by the messaging platform, the message posted by the first user to users linked to the first user in the connected graph.
10. A system for exchanging selectable moment messages in a social media network, the system comprising: a client application, executable by a computing device, configured to render a timeline of a first user on a user interface of the client application, the timeline including a stream of messages posted by users having user accounts linked to a user account of the first user in a connection graph; and a messaging platform, executable by a server computer, configured to communicate with the client application over a network, the messaging platform configured to: transmit digital information, over the network, to render a selectable moment message on the user interface of the client application, the selectable moment message being associated with an event discussed on the messaging platform, wherein, before selection by the first user, the selectable moment message displays contextual information about the event, the selectable moment message being linked to a plurality of messages posted on the messaging platform by one or more users about the event, wherein selection of the selectable moment message by the first user causes the client application to open the selectable moment message to display a sequence of the plurality of messages, scrollable by the first user, that relate to the event; receive follower selection information, over the network, from the client application, the follower selection information indicating that a user interface object has been selected by the first user to follow the event over time; inject, during a course of the event and after receipt of the follower selection information, a message posted by a second user to the messaging platform about the event into the stream of messages rendered on the timeline of the first user, wherein a user account of the second user is not linked to the user account of the first user within the connection graph, wherein the message posted by the second user is not associated with an action taken with respect to the first user, the message having been posted to the messaging platform by the second user after receipt of the follower selection information and before the event expires; and remove the message posted by the second user from the stream of messages rendered on the timeline of the first user in response to an expiration of the event.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the client application is configured to transition through the sequence of the plurality of messages in response to receipts of user gestures on the user interface of the client application.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the selectable moment message is created based on a combination of user selection and programmatic selection.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the messaging platform includes machine-learning resources, and the messaging platform is configured to identify at least one of the event or the plurality of messages linked to the selectable moment message based on the machine-learning resources inputted with signals that include trends, buzz, user preferences, and previous user engagements.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the messaging platform is configured to link an additional message posted by a third user on the messaging platform with the selectable moment message during the course of the event such that the additional message is inserted into the sequence of the plurality of messages of the selectable moment message.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the messaging platform is configured to receive a request to embed the selectable moment message and generate hypertext markup language (HTML) data for the selectable moment message in response to the request.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing executable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, are configured to cause the at least one processor to: transmit digital information, over a network, to render a home timeline of a first user on a user interface of a client application, the home timeline including a stream of messages posted by users having user accounts linked to a user account of the first user in a connection graph; transmit digital information, over the network, to render a profile timeline of the first user on the user interface of the client application, the profile timeline displaying user activities taken with respect to the first user; transmit digital information, over the network, to render a selectable moment message on the user interface of the client application, the selectable moment message being associated with an event discussed on the messaging platform, wherein, before selection by the first user, the selectable moment message displays contextual information about the event, the contextual information including text and image data about the event, the selectable moment message being linked to a plurality of messages posted on the messaging platform by one or more users about the event, wherein selection of the selectable moment message by the first user causes the client application to open the selectable moment message to display a sequence of the plurality of messages, scrollable by the first user, that relate to the event such that the plurality of messages are displayed one at a time; receive follower selection information over the network from the client application, the follower selection information indicating that a user interface object has been selected by the first user to follow the event over time; inject, during a course of the event and after receipt of the follower selection information, a message posted by a second user to the messaging platform about the event into the stream of messages rendered on the home timeline of the first user during a duration of the event, wherein a user account of the second user is not linked to the user account of the first user within the connection graph, wherein the message posted by the second user is not associated with an action taken with respect to the first user; cease to inject messages posted by the second user into the stream of messages rendered on the home timeline of the first user in response to the event expiring; remove the message posted by the second user from the stream of messages rendered on the home timeline of the first user in response to the event expiring such that the home timeline of the first user returns to a state before the first user followed the event.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of messages displays a progress bar that indicates the first user's progress through the sequence of the plurality of messages.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: receive a request to embed the selectable moment message; and generate hypertext markup language (HTML) data for the selectable moment message in response to the request.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: identify at least one of the event or the plurality of messages linked to the selectable moment message based on machine-learning resources inputted with signals that include at least one of trends, buzz, user preferences, or previous user engagements.
</claims>
</document>
