<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/06,A61B1/24,A61B5/00,A61B5/107,A61C9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIGN TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SAPHIER, OFER
ATIYA, YOSSEF
AYAL, SHAI
KUO, ERIC
KOPELMAN, AVI
LAMPERT, EREZ
MALKA, DORON
SABINA, MICHAEL
MOSHE, MAAYAN
ELBAZ, GILAD
WEISS, ASSAF
NIZARD, ELIAHOU FRANKLIN
TISHEL, IDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67767910
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatuses for forming a three-dimensional volumetric model of a subject's teeth
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatuses for generating a model of a subject's teeth. Described herein are intraoral scanning methods and apparatuses for generating a three-dimensional model of a subject's intraoral region (e.g., teeth) including both surface features and internal features. These methods and apparatuses may be used for identifying and evaluating lesions, caries and cracks in the teeth. Any of these methods and apparatuses may use minimum scattering coefficients and/or segmentation to form a volumetric model of the teeth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving scan data of a patient's dentition comprising a first set of two-dimensional (2D) images taken with a hand-held intraoral scanner operating in a first mode; generating a three-dimensional (3D) model of one or more teeth using the first set of 2D images; receiving scan data of the patient's dentition comprising a plurality of 2D near-infrared (near-IR) images of the one or more teeth taken with the hand-held intraoral scanner operating in a second mode; receiving, based on a user selection, one or more 2D near-IR images including an internal feature from the plurality of 2D near-IR images; correlating the one or more 2D near-IR images to the 3D model to associate a location of the one or more 2D near-IR images with a corresponding location in the 3D model; and displaying the 3D model showing a section through the 3D model with the one or more 2D near-IR images included on the section, showing internal structures including the internal feature.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying comprises displaying on a user interface.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, based on the user selection, comprises manually segmenting the one or more 2D near-IR images.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising stitching together one or more infrared images together and displaying the one or more infrared images as a panorama.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the section comprises displaying an overlay of the one or more 2D near-IR images on the 3D model.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the internal feature comprises one or more of: dentin, cracks and caries.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising iteratively refining the section through the 3D model corresponding to the one or more 2D near-IR images.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein correlating the one or more 2D near-IR images to the 3D model includes matching features of the one or more 2D near-IR images with corresponding features of the 3D model.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving scan data of the patient's dentition taken with the hand-held intraoral scanner in the first mode comprises scanning the patient's dentition using visible light.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first mode and the second mode are based on a same coordinate system.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising changing a rotation or zoom of the 3D model.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising scanning the patient's dentition with the hand-held intraoral scanner operating in a first mode to collect the first set of 2D images.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising scanning the patient's dentition with the hand-held intraoral scanner operating in a second mode to take the plurality of 2D near-infrared (near-IR) images of the one or more teeth.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising alternating between scanning the patient's dentition in the first and second modes to collect the first set of 2D images and the plurality of 2D near-infrared (near-IR) images of the one or more teeth.
15. A method, the method comprising: receiving scan data of a patient's dentition comprising a first set of two-dimensional (2D) images having surface features of one or more teeth, taken with a hand-held intraoral scanner; generating a three-dimensional (3D) model of the one or more teeth using data associated with the first set of 2D images having surface features of the one or more teeth; receiving scan data of the patient's dentition comprising a second set of 2D images having internal features of the one or more teeth, the second set of 2D images comprising infrared images taken with the hand-held intraoral scanner; displaying one or more infrared images of the second set of 2D images on a user interface so that the user can manually identify one or more 2D images of the second set of 2D images; correlating the one or more 2D images of the second set of 2D images to the 3D model to associate a location of the one or more teeth in the one or more 2D images with a location of corresponding one or more teeth of the 3D model; and displaying the one or more infrared images and the 3D model on a user interface indicating where the internal features of one or more 2D images are located with respect to the surface features of the 3D model.
16. A method, the method comprising: receiving scan data of a patient's dental arch comprising a set of two-dimensional (2D) infrared images and a three-dimensional (3D) model of the patient's teeth taken with an intraoral scanner operating in a first, visible light, mode and a second, infrared light, mode; displaying, in a user interface, the 3D model of the patient's teeth and one or more 2D infrared images from the set of 2D infrared images; displaying, in the user interface, a region marker on the 3D model corresponding to a location of a tooth or teeth shown in in the one or more 2D infrared images; and receiving a user selection of a different 2D infrared image, and altering a location of the region marker on the 3D model and altering the one or more 2D infrared images from the set of 2D infrared images to reflect the user's selection.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing a user control on the user interface to permit the user to select a different 2D infrared image.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing a user control on the user interface to permit the user to move the region marker to select a different region of the 3D model corresponding to the different 2D infrared image.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising providing one or more controls on the user interface to permit the user to adjust a rotation or a displayed section of the 3D model displayed on the user interface.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising displaying one or more 2D visible light images corresponding to the one or more 2D infrared images.
21. The method of claim 16, further wherein receiving from the user the selection of a different 2D infrared image and altering the location of the region marker on the 3D model comprises receiving the selection of the different 2D infrared image and altering the location of the region marker in real time.
22. The method of claim 16, further comprising scanning the patient's dental arch with the intraoral scanner in the first, visible light, mode and the second, infrared light, mode, to generate the set of 2D infrared images and the 3D model of the patient's teeth.
23. A method, the method comprising: receiving scan data of a patient's dental arch comprising a set of two-dimensional (2D) infrared images and a three-dimensional (3D) model of the patient's teeth taken with an intraoral scanner operating in a first, visible light, mode and a second, infrared light, mode displaying, in a user interface, the 3D model and a 2D infrared image from the set of 2D infrared images; displaying, in the user interface, a region marker on the 3D model corresponding to a location of a tooth or teeth shown in in the displayed 2D infrared image; providing a user control on the user interface to permit the user to select a different 2D infrared image from the set of 2D infrared images; and altering a location of the region marker on the 3D model and the displayed 2D infrared image to reflect the user's selection of the different 2D infrared image.
</claims>
</document>
