<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/84,G06Q30/06,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/02,H04L29/08,H04L9/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
YING, PENGFEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64308809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data auditing method and device
</title>

<abstract>
A query request is forwarded to a plurality of service provider servers by a proxy server that determines a serial number based on the query request. An encrypted query result corresponding to the query request is received from each service provider server, and a copy of the encrypted query result is stored as a result to be audited in a blockchain that associated with each service provider server. An audit request is sent to at least one service provider server. The result to be audited is obtained from the blockchain corresponding to the service provider server. As a standard result, an encrypted query result is received from the service provider server. As an audit, the standard result received from the service provider server is compared with the result to be audited that obtained from the blockchain that associated with the service provider server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a proxy server, a query request from a user device; determining, by the proxy server, a serial number that is associated with the query request; transmitting, by the proxy server, the query request to a plurality of service provider servers; in response to transmitting the query request to the plurality of service provider servers, receiving, by the proxy server and from each of the service provider servers, a first query result, wherein the first query result is an encrypted query result generated based on an irreversible encryption algorithm; transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the query request to the user device based at least on the first query result; after transmitting the response to the query request, receiving, by the proxy server, an audit request from the user device; transmitting, by the proxy server and to a particular service provider server, the audit request and the serial number to the particular service provider server; in response to transmitting the audit request, receiving, by the proxy server and from the particular service provider server, a second query result, wherein the second query result is an encrypted query result generated based on the same irreversible encryption algorithm; obtaining, by the proxy server, the first query result from a blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server, wherein the first query result was previously stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain contemporaneous with responding to the query request; comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server; and transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the audit request to the user device based at least on comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the query request comprises a loan query request.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the query request comprises an insurance query request.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the query request specifies a service to collectively be performed by service provider servers.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second query results each include the serial number.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first query result is stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain before the first query result was received by the proxy server.
7. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a proxy server, a query request from a user device; determining, by the proxy server, a serial number that is associated with the query request; transmitting, by the proxy server, the query request to a plurality of service provider servers; in response to transmitting the query request to the plurality of service provider servers, receiving, by the proxy server and from each of the service provider servers, a first query result, wherein the first query result is an encrypted query result generated based on an irreversible encryption algorithm; transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the query request to the user device based at least on the first query result; after transmitting the response to the query request, receiving, by the proxy server, an audit request from the user device; transmitting, by the proxy server and to a particular service provider server, the audit request and the serial number to the particular service provider server; in response to transmitting the audit request, receiving, by the proxy server and from the particular service provider server, a second query result, wherein the second query result is an encrypted query result generated based on the same irreversible encryption algorithm; obtaining, by the proxy server, the first query result from a blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server, wherein the first query result was previously stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain contemporaneous with responding to the query request; comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server; and transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the audit request to the user device based at least on comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server.
8. The medium of claim 7, wherein the query request comprises a loan query request.
9. The medium of claim 7, wherein the query request comprises an insurance query request.
10. The medium of claim 7, wherein the query request specifies a service to collectively be performed by service provider servers.
11. The medium of claim 7, wherein the first and second query results each include the serial number.
12. The medium of claim 7, wherein the first query result is stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain before the first query result was received by the proxy server.
13. A system comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: receiving, by a proxy server, a query request from a user device; determining, by the proxy server, a serial number that is associated with the query request; transmitting, by the proxy server, the query request to a plurality of service provider servers; in response to transmitting the query request to the plurality of service provider servers, receiving, by the proxy server and from each of the service provider servers, a first query result, wherein the first query result is an encrypted query result generated based on an irreversible encryption algorithm; transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the query request to the user device based at least on the first query result; after transmitting the response to the query request, receiving, by the proxy server, an audit request from the user device; transmitting, by the proxy server and to a particular service provider server, the audit request and the serial number to the particular service provider server; in response to transmitting the audit request, receiving, by the proxy server and from the particular service provider server, a second query result, wherein the second query result is an encrypted query result generated based on the same irreversible encryption algorithm; obtaining, by the proxy server, the first query result from a blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server, wherein the first query result was previously stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain contemporaneous with responding to the query request; comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server; and transmitting, by the proxy server, a response to the audit request to the user device based at least on comparing the second query result with the first query result that was obtained from the blockchain that is associated with the particular service provider server.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the query request comprises a loan query request.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the query request comprises an insurance query request.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the query request specifies a service to collectively be performed by service provider servers.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the first and second query results each include the serial number.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the first query result is stored by the particular service provider server in the blockchain before the first query result was received by the proxy server.
</claims>
</document>
