<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/13,G06F16/14,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARIVAR, REZA
GOODSITT, JEREMY
PHAM, VINCENT
RAFFERTY, GALEN
TRUONG, ANH
WALTER S. AUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70056567
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for indexing and mapping data sets using feature matrices
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for indexing and mapping data sets by feature matrices, comprising at least a processor and a non-transitory memory storing instructions that cause the processor to perform operations including receiving data sets of the same type, applying autoencoders to generate feature matrices, and generating a neural network model trained to generate synthetic data corresponding to the type of data files. Further, the processor performs operations to applying more autoencoders to part of the hidden layer of the neural network model to generate more corresponding feature matrices and indexing the data set using the feature matrices such that the data sets are searchable using an index wherein a search query is received and a third feature matrix is generated so that a data set can be retrieved and compared to the feature matrices using the index.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for indexing and mapping data sets by feature matrices, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at least one data set, the at least one data set comprising one or more files of a same type; applying one or more first autoencoders to the at least one data set to generate one or more corresponding first feature matrices; generating at least one neural network model trained to generate synthetic data corresponding to the type of the one or more files; applying one or more second autoencoders to at least a portion of at least one hidden layer of the at least one neural network model to generate one or more corresponding second feature matrices; indexing the at least one data set using the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices; enabling searching for data sets using the index; generating one or more third feature matrices from a search query using at least one of the one or more first autoencoders or the one or more second autoencoders; and using the index, retrieve the at least one data set and a measure of comparison between the one or more third feature matrices and at least one of the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one data set comprises at least one of a plurality of text files, a plurality of spreadsheets, or a plurality of images.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more first autoencoders comprise at least one long short-term memory (LSTM) cell or a variational autoencoder generative adversarial network (VAE-GAN).
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more second autoencoders comprise a denoising autoencoder.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one neural network model trained to generate synthetic data comprises at least one of a convolutional neural network (CNN) or a generative adversarial network (GAN).
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the index comprises a first index for the one or more first feature matrices and second index for the one or more second feature matrices.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least a portion of at least one hidden layer of the at least one neural network model comprises at least one of weights or activation functions of nodes in the at least one hidden layer.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more second autoencoders include a first second autoencoder for the weights of the at least one hidden layer of the at least one neural network model and a second second autoencoder for the activation functions of the at least one hidden layer of the at least one neural network model.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein enabling searching comprising storing the at least one data set in association with the index.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the at least one neural network model to generate synthetic data comprises training the at least one neural network model using the at least one data set.
11. A system for indexing and mapping data sets by feature matrices, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at least one data set, the at least one data set comprising one or more files; applying one or more first autoencoders to the at least one data set to generate one or more corresponding first feature matrices; extracting metadata from the at least one data set; applying one or more second autoencoders to the extracted metadata to generate one or more corresponding second feature matrices; indexing the at least one data set using the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices; enabling searching for data sets using the index; generating one or more third feature matrices from a search query using at least one of the one or more first autoencoders or the one or more second autoencoders; and using the index, retrieve the at least one data set and a measure of comparison between the one or more third feature matrices and at least one of the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one data set comprises at least one of a plurality of text files, a plurality of spreadsheets, or a plurality of images.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more first autoencoders comprise at least one LSTM cell or a VAE-GAN.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more second autoencoders comprise at least one LSTM cell or a VAE-GAN.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the metadata include at least one of dimensions associated with the one or more files of the at least one data set or character or pixel distributions associated with the one or more files of the at least one data set.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the metadata are extracted from at least one neural network model trained to generate synthetic data corresponding to the at least one data set.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one neural network model trained to generate synthetic data comprises at least one of at least one of a CNN or a GAN.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the metadata include at least one of a number of hidden layers associated with the at least one neural network model, a number of nodes in at least one hidden layer of the at least one neural network model, or a type of activation functions of one or more nodes of the at least one neural network model.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the index comprises a first index for the one or more first feature matrices and second index for the one or more second feature matrices.
20. A system for indexing and mapping data sets by feature matrices, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one non-transitory memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at least one data set, the at least one data set comprising one or more files of a same type; applying one or more first autoencoders to the at least one data set to generate one or more corresponding first feature matrices; generating at least one neural network model trained to generate synthetic data corresponding to the type of the one or more files; extracting at least one of weights or activation functions from one or more hidden layers of the generated at least one neural network; applying one or more second autoencoders to the extracted at least one of weights or activation functions to generate one or more corresponding second feature matrices; indexing the at least one data set using the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices; receiving a search query including at least one of a neural network model or a sample data set; generating one or more third feature matrices from the search query using at least one of the one or more first autoencoders or the one or more second autoencoders; and using the index, retrieve the at least one data set and a measure of comparison between the one or more third feature matrices and at least one of the one or more first feature matrices and the one or more second feature matrices.
</claims>
</document>
