<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248,G06F16/33,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMELOT UK BIDCO
</assignee>

<inventors>
KEYNGNAERT, PETER
LIEKENS, CHRISTOPH
SCHIETSE, JAN
SMET, ANN
WAERNIERS, JAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54368038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and methods for automating trademark and service mark searches
</title>

<abstract>
Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure provide for extraction data from one or more repositories in response to an electronic search order including a text-based input string, a list of jurisdictions, and a list of international classes. Conditional logic of one or more rules is executed to process the search order, and the search order is transformed into one or more queries based on execution of the conditional logic of the one or more rules. A set of data is retrieved from the one or more repositories using the one or more queries to generate search results, where the set of trademarks retrieved can be limited to the list of jurisdictions and the list of international classes identified in the search order. At least a portion of the search results are transmitted to a user computing device to be rendered in a graphical user interface of a display device associated with the user computing device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of extracting confusingly similar trademarks from one or more repositories comprising: receiving, by one or more servers, an electronic search order including one or more text-based input strings, the one or more text-based input strings including a trademark component and a description component; identifying semantically similar variants of the trademark component and the description component, the description component corresponding to at least one of goods or services associated with the trademark component; transforming the electronic search order into a search strategy including one or more directives for processing the electronic search order based on semantically similar variants; interpreting the one or more directives of the search strategy to transform the search strategy into one or more queries including at least a subset of variations of at least one of the trademark component or the description component based on the semantically similar variants; executing the one or more queries to retrieve a set of trademarks from the one or more repositories; and transmitting, via a communication network, at least a portion of search results to a user computing device to be rendered in a graphical user interface of a display device associated with the user computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the one or more text-based input strings include a compound string; parsing the compound string into parts; and identifying possibilities for stemming or inflections of the parts for inclusion in the search strategy.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: parsing words of the one or more text-based input strings into their parts of speech; and for at least one of the words, identifying semantic equivalent words associated with the at least one of the words; and discriminating between the semantic equivalent words that have a same part of speech and the semantic equivalent words that have a different part of speech.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a relative importance of the words in the one or more text-based input strings; and defining a degree of variation to apply to each of the words based on the relative importance, wherein the semantically similar variants are limited by the degree of variation.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing words in the one or more text-based input strings against a repository of words to identify semantically equivalent words in one or more languages; and adding the semantically equivalent words to the search strategy.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: processing words in the goods or services description component against an ontology to identify goods or services descriptions that are semantically related to the goods or services description component; and adding the goods or services descriptions that are semantically related to the goods or services description component to the search strategy.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of trademarks retrieved from the one or more repositories is limited to similar trademarks that also identify goods or services that are determined to be related to the description component.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining whether each of the trademarks in the set of trademarks retrieved from the one or more repositories satisfies a filtering criteria, and wherein transmitting at least a portion of the search results comprises transmitting the trademarks that satisfy the filtering criteria.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether each of the trademarks retrieved from the one or more repositories satisfies a filtering criteria comprises: comparing each of the trademarks to the one or more text-based input strings; generating a similarity score for each of the trademarks in response to the comparing; and comparing each of the similarity scores to a similarity score threshold, wherein the trademarks having a similarity score exceeding the similarity score threshold are transmitted to the user computing device.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein determining whether each of the trademarks retrieved from the one or more repositories satisfies a filtering criteria comprises: comparing a goods or services description of each of the trademarks to the goods or services description component; determining a similarity measure for each of the trademarks based on the comparison; comparing each of the similarity measures to a similarity measure threshold, wherein the trademarks having a similarity measure exceeding the similarity measure threshold are transmitted to the user computing device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the trademark component describes an image, and the method further comprises: identifying recognized words in the trademark component; and mapping the recognized words onto a set of concepts corresponding to trademark images.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: executing a rule matcher to identify which rules from a set of rules apply to query generation based on one or more concepts extracted from the trademark component; executing the rules identified by the rule matcher to transform the electronic search order into the one or more queries; extracting one or more low level codes associated with trademark images stored in the one or more repositories based on executing the identified rules; and forming the one or more queries based on the one or more low level codes.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining that the set of trademarks is a null set; generalizing the rules used to generate the one or more queries; and generating one or more new queries based on generalizing the rules.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the rules are generalized for a specified number of terms in the one or more queries to generate the one or more new queries.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the semantically similar variants comprises: processing words in the one or more text-based input strings against a plurality of semantic model resources to identify possible semantic equivalents for the words; receiving votes from the semantic model resources regarding the possible semantic equivalents for the words; and selecting one or more of the possible semantic equivalent words based on the votes.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein selecting one or more of the possible semantic equivalent words based on the votes comprises: identifying a voting pattern based on the votes; and determining whether to include the one or more of the possible semantic equivalent words in the search strategy based on the voting pattern.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of semantic model resources include at least one of dictionary repositories to determine semantic equivalents in different languages; semantic ontology to determine semantic equivalents based on semantic relationships; a language model to determine semantic equivalents based on a semantic distance measure; or a semantic trademark resource that includes semantic alternatives mined from previous trademark searches.
</claims>
</document>
