<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/46,G06N5/02,G06Q10/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOW, BARRY N.
LIMBURN, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59855792
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Task handling in a master data management system
</title>

<abstract>
Task handling in a master data management (MDM) system. A task pattern associated with a task completed is identified, in a task handling system. If the identified task pattern matches an existing task pattern in a task patterns database, then a pattern count value of the matching existing task pattern is incremented, and the task patterns database is searched for task patterns that are similar to the matching existing task pattern. If similar task patterns are identified, for each of the similar task patterns, a duplicate pattern count is specified that is based on the number of identified similar task patterns. If the duplicate pattern count for any one of the similar task patterns exceeds a specified threshold, a new task is created comprising data on completion actions for the matching existing task pattern and each of the one or more similar task patterns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a task pattern associated with a task completed, in a task handling system, wherein the identified task pattern includes: at least one of task data and task metadata; and an action taken in the task handling system to complete a task; program instructions to write the identified task pattern in a defined task pattern format to a task patterns database, wherein the task patterns in the task patterns database are grouped in a logical order; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the identified task pattern matches an existing task pattern in the task patterns database: program instructions to increment a pattern count value of the matching existing task pattern; program instructions to search the task patterns database for task patterns that are similar to the matching existing task pattern; program instructions to, responsive to determining that one or more similar task patterns are identified, specify for each of the one or more similar task patterns, a duplicate pattern count that is based on the number of identified similar task patterns; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the duplicate pattern count for any one of the one or more similar task patterns exceeds a specified threshold, create a new task comprising data on completion actions for the matching existing task pattern and each of the one or more similar task patterns, wherein the new task is labeled to be identified as a high priority task and is assigned to the head of an active task list of the system; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the duplicate pattern count for any one of the one or more similar tasks patterns does not exceed a specified threshold, identify active tasks assigned to the matching existing task pattern in the task patterns databases, wherein the identified active tasks are applied to the identified task pattern, wherein the identified task pattern is closed and flagged as automatically actioned in the database after the identified active tasks are applied; program instructions to write both the pattern count value and the duplicate pattern count for the identified task pattern in the database; and program instructions to automatically process any tasks that have the duplicate pattern count exceeding the specified threshold before being presented to a data handling station or a data handling user, wherein the tasks that have the duplicate pattern count exceeding the specified threshold are configured to be prevented from entering the active task list of the system.
2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the task handling system is a master data management system.
3. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the one or more identified similar task patterns are task patterns which are identical except for the completion actions.
4. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the specified threshold is a value of one.
5. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, responsive to determining a correct completion action for the identified existing and similar task patterns, merge the matching existing task patterns and the identified one or more similar task patterns in a correct task pattern including the correct completion action; program instructions to identify tasks associated with the identified task patterns previously completed using incorrect completion actions; and program instructions to implement a corrective action for the identified tasks.
6. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the correct completion action is determined at a task handling station of the task handling system.
7. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the correct completion action is determined by decision logic of an artificial intelligence data processing engine.
8. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a task pattern associated with a task completed, in a task handling system, wherein the identified task pattern includes: at least one of task data and task metadata; and an action taken in the task handling system to complete a task; program instructions to write the identified task pattern in a defined task pattern format to a task patterns database, wherein the task patterns in the task patterns database is grouped in a logical order; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the identified task pattern matches an existing task pattern in the task patterns database: program instructions to increment a pattern count value of the matching existing task pattern; program instructions to search the task patterns database for task patterns that are similar to the matching existing task pattern; program instructions to, responsive to determining that one or more similar task patterns are identified, specify for each of the one or more similar task patterns, a duplicate pattern count that is based on the number of identified similar task patterns; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the duplicate pattern count for any one of the one or more similar task patterns exceeds a specified threshold, create a new task comprising data on completion actions for the matching existing task pattern and each of the one or more similar task patterns, wherein the new task is labeled to be identified as a high priority task and is assigned to the head of an active task list of the system; program instructions to, responsive to determining that the duplicate pattern count for any one of the one or more similar tasks patterns does not exceed a specified threshold, identify active tasks assigned to the matching existing task pattern in the task patterns databases, wherein the identified active tasks are applied to the identified task pattern, wherein the identified task pattern is closed and flagged as automatically actioned in the database after the identified active tasks are applied; program instructions to write both the pattern count value and the duplicate pattern count for the identified task pattern in the database; and program instructions to automatically process any tasks that have the duplicate pattern count exceeding the specified threshold before being presented to a data handling station or a data handling user, wherein the tasks that have the duplicate pattern count exceeding the specified threshold are configured to be prevented from entering the active task list of the system.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the task handling system is a master data management system.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the one or more identified similar task patterns are task patterns which are identical except for the completion actions.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the specified threshold is a value of one.
12. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media further comprise: program instructions to, responsive to determining a correct completion action for the identified existing and similar task patterns, merge the matching existing task patterns and the identified one or more similar task patterns in a correct task pattern including the correct completion action; program instructions to identify tasks associated with the identified task patterns previously completed using incorrect completion actions; and program instructions to implement a corrective action for the identified tasks.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the correct completion action is determined at a task handling station of the task handling system.
</claims>
</document>
