<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/01,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/26,G10L17/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOMASHEKAR, SHAMITHA
BANCROFT, NAOMI
MAMKINA, NATALIA VLADIMIROVNA
KUMAR, NISHANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62874329
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User recognition for speech processing systems
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and devices for recognizing a user are disclosed. A speech-controlled device captures a spoken utterance, and sends audio data corresponding thereto to a server. The server determines content sources storing or having access to content responsive to the spoken utterance. The server also determines multiple users associated with a profile of the speech-controlled device. Using the audio data, the server may determine user recognition data with respect to each user indicated in the speech-controlled device's profile. The server may also receive user recognition confidence threshold data from each of the content sources. The server may determine user recognition data associated that satisfies (i.e., meets or exceeds) a most stringent (i.e., highest) of the user recognition confidence threshold data. Thereafter, the server may send data indicating a user associated with the user recognition data to all of the content sources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive, from a first device, first audio data representing first speech; determine first user-specific data corresponding to a voice of a first user; using at least the first user-specific data, determine a first score corresponding to a first likelihood that the first speech was spoken by the first user; and output the first score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the first speech corresponds to a command associated with a user recognition confidence threshold; determine the command is associated with at least a first component; and send, to the first component, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine at least a second device having access to first content responsive to at least a first portion of the first speech; determine at least a third device having access to second content responsive to at least a second portion of the first speech; send, to the second device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood; and send, to the third device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine a user recognition confidence threshold associated with at least a second device; determine the first score is greater than the user recognition confidence threshold; and after determining the first score is greater than the user recognition confidence threshold, send the first score to the at least a second device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user-specific data, determine a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determine a user recognition confidence threshold associated with at least a first component; determine the second score fails to satisfy the user recognition confidence threshold; and send, to the first component, an indicator representing an unknown user spoke the second speech.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user-specific data, determine a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determine second user-specific data corresponding to a voice of a second user; using at least the second user-specific data, determine a third score corresponding to a third likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the second user; and based at least in part on the second score and the third score, output the second score.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; determine at least a second device is configured to provide access to content responsive to the second speech; determine a user recognition confidence threshold score associated with the second device; using at least the first user-specific data, determine a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determine that the second score fails to satisfy the user recognition confidence threshold score; receive, from the first device, third audio data; based at least in part on the third audio data and the second score, determine a third score corresponding to a third likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determine the third score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score; and output the third score.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user-specific data, determine a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the first speech was spoken by the first user; receive, from at least a second device configured to provide first content responsive to the second speech, a first user recognition confidence threshold score; receive, from at least a third device configured to provide second content responsive to the second speech, a second user recognition confidence threshold score; determine the first user recognition confidence threshold score is greater than the second user recognition confidence threshold score; after determining first user recognition confidence threshold score is greater than the second user recognition confidence threshold score, determine the second score satisfies the first user recognition confidence threshold score; and after determining the second score satisfies the first user recognition confidence threshold score, send an indication corresponding to the first likelihood to at least one of the second device or the third device.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: send, to at least a second device, a signal requesting content responsive to the first speech; after sending the signal, receive a user recognition confidence threshold score; determine the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score; and based at least in part on determining the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score, send, to the second device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from a first device, audio data representing first speech; determining first user profile data associated with the first device and a first user; using at least the first user profile data, determining a first score corresponding to a first likelihood that the first speech was spoken by the first user; and outputting the first score.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: determining the first speech corresponds to a command associated with a user recognition confidence threshold; determining the command is associated with at least a first component; and sending, to the first component, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: determining at least a second device having access to first content responsive to at least a first portion of the first speech; determining at least a third device having access to second content responsive to at least a second portion of the first speech; sending, to the second device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood; and sending, to the third device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: determining a user recognition confidence threshold associated with at least a second device; determining the first score is greater than the user recognition confidence threshold; and after determining the first score is greater than the user recognition confidence threshold, sending the first score to the at least a second device.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user profile data, determining a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determining a user recognition confidence threshold associated with at least a first component; determining the second score fails to satisfy the user recognition confidence threshold; and sending, to the first component, an indicator representing an unknown user spoke the second speech.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user profile data, determining a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determining second user profile data corresponding to a second user; using at least the second user profile data, determining a third score corresponding to a third likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the second user; and based at least in part on the second score and the third score, outputting the second score.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; determining at least a second device is configured to provide access to content responsive to the second speech; determining a user recognition confidence threshold score associated with the second device; using at least the first user profile data, determining a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determining that the second score fails to satisfy the user recognition confidence threshold score; receiving, from the first device, third audio data; based at least in part on the third audio data and the second score, determining a third score corresponding to a third likelihood that the second speech was spoken by the first user; determining the third score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score; and outputting the third score.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the first device, second audio data representing second speech; using at least the first user profile data, determining a second score corresponding to a second likelihood that the first speech was spoken by the first user; receiving, from at least a second device configured to provide first content responsive to the second speech, a first user recognition confidence threshold score; receiving, from a third device configured to provide second content responsive to the second speech, a second user recognition confidence threshold score; determining the first user recognition confidence threshold score is greater than the second user recognition confidence threshold score; after determining first user recognition confidence threshold score is greater than the second user recognition confidence threshold score, determining the second score satisfies the first user recognition confidence threshold score; and after determining the second score satisfies the first user recognition confidence threshold score, sending an indication corresponding to the first likelihood to at least one of the second device or the third device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: sending, to at least one second device, a signal requesting content responsive to the first speech; after sending the signal, receiving a user recognition confidence threshold score; determining the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score; and based at least in part on determining the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score, sending, to the second device, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
19. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, from a first device, first audio data representing first speech; determining first user-specific data corresponding to a voice of a first user; using at least the first user-specific data, determining a first score corresponding to a first likelihood that the first speech was spoken by the first user; and outputting the first score.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 19, further comprising: sending, to at least a first component, a signal requesting content responsive to the first speech; after sending the signal, receiving a user recognition confidence threshold score; determining the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score; and based at least in part on determining the first score satisfies the user recognition confidence threshold score, sending, to the at least one first component, an indication corresponding to the first likelihood.
</claims>
</document>
