<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01Q1/24,H01Q25/00,H01Q3/26,H01Q3/40,H01Q5/30,H04W16/28,H04W88/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63078958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dual mode communications device with remote device feedback and methods for use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one or more embodiments, a communication device includes an antenna array configured to receive first millimeter wave (MMW) signals from a remote device in a millimeter wave (MMW) frequency band and to transmit second millimeter wave (MMW) signals to the remote device in the MMW frequency band. A base transceiver station is configured to generate a consolidated steering matrix in accordance in a radio frequency (RF) band based on a consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the RF band, wherein the MMW frequency band is above the RF band. A remote radio head is configured to: process the first MMW wave signals received from the remote device to recover an original feedback matrix in accordance with the MMW frequency band; convert the original feedback matrix in accordance with the MMW frequency band to the consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the RF band; convert the consolidated steering matrix to a converted steering matrix that facilitates the transmission of the second MMW signals to the remote device in the MMW frequency band, and is further configured to generate the second MMW signals in accordance with the converted steering matrix.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communication device, comprising: an antenna array configured to receive first signals from a remote device in a first frequency band and to transmit second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band; a base transceiver station configured to generate a consolidated steering matrix in accordance with a second frequency band based on a consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the second frequency band, wherein the first frequency band is above the second frequency band, wherein the consolidated feedback matrix is received from a remote radio head (RHH), and wherein the base transceiver station is further configured to send the consolidated steering matrix to the RRH; and wherein the RRH is configured to: process the first signals received from the remote device to recover an original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band; convert the original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band to the consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the second frequency band; convert the consolidated steering matrix to a converted steering matrix in accordance with the first frequency band that facilitates transmission of the second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band; and generate the second signals in accordance with the converted steering matrix.
2. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the RRH includes a conversion processor and a plurality of front ends, wherein the conversion processor is configured to convert the consolidated steering matrix to the converted steering matrix and to convert the original feedback matrix to the consolidated feedback matrix, and wherein the plurality of front ends is configured to generate the second signals in accordance with the converted steering matrix and to process the first signals received from the remote device to recover the original feedback matrix.
3. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the antenna array is switchable in response to a control signal between an operation in the second frequency band and an operation in the first frequency band.
4. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the consolidated steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna array corresponding to an operation in the second frequency band.
5. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the converted steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna array corresponding to an operation in the first frequency band.
6. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the consolidated feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna array corresponding to an operation in the second frequency band.
7. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the original feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna array corresponding to an operation in the first frequency band.
8. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the RRH operates in accordance with a fourth generation (4G) wireless protocol in the second frequency band and the RRH operates in accordance with a fifth-generation (5G) wireless protocol in the first frequency band.
9. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the second frequency band is a fourth-generation wireless frequency band.
10. The communication device of claim 1, wherein the RRH is further configured to receive third signals from the remote device in the first frequency band via the antenna array, in accordance with the converted steering matrix.
11. A method, comprising: receiving, via an antenna, first signals from a remote device in a first frequency band; processing, via a remote radio head (RRH), the first signals received from the remote device to recover an original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band; converting, via the RRH, the original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band to a consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with a second frequency band, wherein the first frequency band is above the second frequency band; sending, via the RRH, the consolidated feedback matrix to a base transceiver station; receiving, via the RRH, a consolidated steering matrix in accordance with the second frequency band generated by the base transceiver station in response to the consolidated feedback matrix; converting, via the RRH, the consolidated steering matrix to a converted steering matrix that facilitates transmission of second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band; generating, via the RRH, the second signals in accordance with the converted steering matrix; and transmitting, via the antenna, the second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the antenna is a dual-band antenna array configurable to selectively transmit to, and receive from, the remote device in the second frequency band.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: switching the dual-band antenna array between an operation in the second frequency band and an operation in the first frequency band.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the consolidated steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna corresponding to an operation in the second frequency band.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the converted steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna corresponding to an operation in the first frequency band.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the consolidated feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna corresponding to an operation in the second frequency band.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the original feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the antenna corresponding to an operation in the first frequency band.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein the RRH operates in accordance with a fourth generation (4G) wireless protocol in the second frequency band and the RRH operates in accordance with a fifth-generation (5G) wireless protocol in the first frequency band.
19. A communication device, comprising: a dual-band antenna array configurable in accordance with a first mode of operation, to receive first signals from a remote device in a first frequency band, to transmit second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band, wherein the dual-band antenna array is configurable in accordance with a second mode of operation, to operate in a second frequency band; a base transceiver station configured to generate a consolidated steering matrix in accordance with the second frequency band based on a consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the second frequency band, wherein the consolidated feedback matrix is received from a remote radio head (RHH), and wherein the base transceiver station is further configured to send the consolidated steering matrix to the RRH; and wherein the RRH is configured to: process the first signals received from the remote device to recover an original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band; convert the original feedback matrix in accordance with the first frequency band to the consolidated feedback matrix in accordance with the second frequency band; convert the consolidated steering matrix to a converted steering matrix that facilitates transmission of the second signals to the remote device in the first frequency band; and generate the second signals in accordance with the converted steering matrix.
20. The communication device of claim 19, wherein the consolidated steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the dual-band antenna array corresponding to an operation in the second frequency band; wherein the converted steering matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the dual-band antenna array corresponding to an operation in the first frequency band; wherein the consolidated feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the dual-band antenna array corresponding to the operation in the second frequency band; and wherein the original feedback matrix includes co-phasing parameters of the dual-band antenna array corresponding to the operation in the first frequency band.
</claims>
</document>
