<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/248,G06F16/95,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXPEDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KNIGHT, MATTHEW JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56127290
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Persona for opaque travel item selection
</title>

<abstract>
A network-based service may be provided for facilitating queries for a number of items, such as travel services. A user may submit a query including criteria for determining relevant items. The network-based service may be configured to generate opaque search results in response to queries, revealing sufficient detail to allow the user to confirm the relevance of the travel item, but insufficient detail to disclose the identity of the supplier. Based on the submitted query or other information, the network-based service may associate a persona with the user, such as the persona of a business or leisure traveler. The network-based service may use the persona to determine a travel item or items best suited to the user, by identifying the travel item attributes that correlate positively with preferences of the persona. The network-based service may then generate an opaque search result that reveals travel item attributes desired by the persona.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a data store configured to store information identifying a plurality of travel items, each travel item having a plurality of attributes; and a processor in communication with the data store, the processor configured with executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the system to at least: receive, from a user computing device, a query including criteria for identifying, within the plurality of travel items, a travel item responsive to the query, wherein the query is associated with a type of intended travel; identify, from the data store, the travel item responsive to the query; determine, based at least in part on the type of intended travel, a disclosable set of attributes for the travel item, wherein the disclosable set of attributes includes less than all attributes for the travel item, and wherein the disclosable set of attributes excludes an identity of a supplier of the travel item; and cause the user computing device to display search results responsive to the query in a format that includes the disclosable set of attributes for the travel item and excludes the identity of the supplier.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the disclosable set of attributes is determined based at least in part on attributes of travel items acquired by individual travelers associated with the type of intended travel.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to associate a second type of intended travel with the query.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the travel item responsive to the query is identified based at least in part on the second type of intended travel.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to identify the type of intended travel.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the type of intended travel is identified based at least in part on one or more of the query, the user, a set of preferences associated with the user, a previous query associated with the user, a web browsing history associated with the user, or a travel history associated with the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to generate a set of weighting factors associated with the type of intended travel.
8. A computer-implemented method comprising: as implemented by one or more computing devices configured with specific executable instructions, receiving, from a user, a request for travel item listings; obtaining a travel item based at least in part on the request; determining, based at least in part on a type of intended travel associated with the request, a disclosable set of attributes for the travel item, wherein the disclosable set of attributes includes less than all attributes for the travel item, and wherein the disclosable set of attributes is associated with at least one other travel item; and transmitting, responsive to the request, an travel item listing corresponding to the travel item, wherein the travel item listing includes the disclosable set of attributes and excludes an identity of a supplier of the travel item, and wherein transmitting the travel item listing causes a computing device associated with the user to display the disclosable set of attributes for the travel item without displaying the identity of the supplier of the travel item.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein obtaining the type of intended travel comprises: identifying, based at least in part on at least one of the request or the user, a first set of previous travelers; and determining the type of intended travel based at least in part on the first set of previous travelers.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the first set of previous travelers is identified based at least in part on one or more of a destination associated with the request, a check-in date, a check-out date, a number of travelers associated with the request, or the ages of one or more travelers associated with the request.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the first set of previous travelers is identified based at least in part on at least one of a travel history of the user, a browsing history of the user, or a preference of the user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein obtaining the type of intended travel comprises selecting the type of intended travel from a plurality of types of intended travel.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein obtaining the type of intended travel comprises: selecting a plurality of types of intended travel; and combining the plurality of types of intended travel to produce the type of intended travel.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein combining the plurality of types of intended travel is based at least in part on a linear weighting algorithm.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein combining the plurality of types of intended travel is based at least in part on determining a union or intersection of the plurality of types of intended travel.
16. Non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a computing system, cause the computing system to at least: determine, based at least in part on an activity of a user, a query for search results identifying attributes of one or more travel items available for acquisition without identifying suppliers of the one or more travel items; identify a travel item based at least in part on the query and a type of intended travel attributable to the query; determine, based at least in part on the type of intended travel, a set of disclosable attributes for the travel item, wherein the set of disclosable attributes excludes an identity of the supplier of the travel item; and cause a computing device associated with the user to display a search result based at least in part on the travel item, wherein the search result includes the set of disclosable attributes and excludes the identity of the supplier of the travel item.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the set of disclosable attributes is determined based at least in part on an inventory of travel items.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the type of intended travel is obtained from a set of types of intended travel.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16 wherein the media further includes instructions that, when executed by the computing system, cause the computing system to at least identify, based at least in part on the activity of the user, at least one set of previous travelers.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the type of intended travel is determined based at least in part on the at least one set of previous travelers.
</claims>
</document>
