<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/02,H04L29/08,H05B37/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESILIENCE MAGNUM IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, ERIC
ATTARIAN, ELIE
CHANG, MICHAEL
COZEAN, RONALD
ELWOOD, JOHN
HORVATH, MEGAN
MORDETZKY, DAVID EDWARD
PYROS, ANTHONY JOHN
ROSEN, STEVEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65896877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Self aware lights that self-configure
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for self-aware light are provided. A self-aware light can determine characteristics of the environment in which the self-aware light is installed, determine capabilities of self-aware light, determine one or more objectives of the installation of self-aware light, perform a self-configuration of self-aware light according to the determined one or more objectives, and determine and execute suitable actions for self-aware light to perform to achieve the determined one or more objectives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A self-aware light bulb configured for installation in a light fixture, the self-aware light bulb comprising: one or more instruments; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an environment component that employs at least one instrument of the one or more instruments to generate an environment profile describing one or more characteristics of an environment in which self-aware light bulb is installed; and an awareness component that: generates one or more objectives for the self-aware bulb based on the environment profile and one or more capabilities of the self-aware light bulb; and configures at least one setting of at least one parameter of the self-aware light bulb to achieve the one or more objectives.
2. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the environment component comprises: a physical environment component that employs the at least one instrument to determine physical information associated with the environment; and an environment profile component that determines the one or more characteristics of the environment based on the physical information, and generates the environment profile based on the one or more characteristics.
3. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the environment component comprises: a network environment component that employs the at least one instrument to determine device information associated with one or more devices in the environment; and an environment profile component that determines the one or more characteristics of the environment based on the device information, and generates the environment profile based on the one or more characteristics.
4. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the environment component comprises: an environment profile component that determines the one or more characteristics of the environment based on first information obtained from the at least one instrument and second information obtained from one or more knowledge sources based on the first information, and generates the environment profile based on the one or more characteristics.
5. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the awareness component comprises: a capability component that performs a self-examination of the self-aware light bulb to determine the one or more capabilities of the of the self-aware light bulb.
6. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the awareness component comprises: a light profile component that generates a light profile for the self-aware light bulb describing at least one of the environment profile, the one or more objectives, the one or more capabilities, or the at least one setting of the at least one parameter.
7. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, wherein the awareness component comprises a user interface that enables user input overring data in the light profile generated by the self-aware light bulb.
8. The self-aware light bulb of claim 1, further comprising an operation component that: monitors the one or more characteristics of the environment using the one or more instruments; determines one or more actions to perform to achieve the one or more objectives; executes the one or more actions.
9. The self-aware light bulb of claim 8, wherein the one or more actions comprises coordination with at least one other self-aware light bulb to execute the one or more actions.
10. A self-aware light comprising: a self-aware light fixture; a self-aware light bulb configured for installation in the self-aware light fixture; one or more instruments located in at least one of the self-aware light bulb or the self-aware light fixture; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: an environment component that employs at least one instrument of the one or more instruments to determine one or more characteristics of an environment in which self-aware light is installed; and an awareness component that: determines one or more capabilities of the self-aware light; generates one or more objectives for the self-aware bulb based on the one or more characteristics and the one or more capabilities; and configures at least one setting of at least one parameter of the self-aware light to achieve the one or more objectives.
11. The self-aware light of claim 10, wherein the one or more characteristics relates to a physical information of the environment or a device information of one or more devices in the environment.
12. The self-aware light of claim 10, wherein the one or more objectives relate to at least one of a safety objective, an entertainment objective, an automation objective, an activity enhancement objective, a traffic objective, device control objective, communication objective, an instruction objective, a social enhancement objective, an economic objective, a mood enhancement objective, a notification objective, a coordination objective, a time management objective, or a workflow management objective.
13. The self-aware light of claim 10, wherein the awareness component comprises: a capability component that probes a system bus of the self-aware light to determine the one or more capabilities of the of the self-aware light bulb.
14. The self-aware light of claim 10, wherein the at least one instrument comprises a sensor.
15. The self-aware light of claim 10, further comprising an operation component that: monitors the one or more characteristics of the environment using the one or more instruments; determines one or more actions to perform to achieve the one or more objectives; executes the one or more actions.
16. The self-aware light of claim 15, wherein the one or more actions comprises employment of a tool included in the one or more instruments.
17. A method comprising: determining, by a self-aware light bulb via one or more instruments of the self-aware light bulb, one or more characteristics of an environment in which self-aware light bulb is installed; determining, by the self-aware light bulb, one or more capabilities of the self-aware light bulb; generating, by the self-aware light bulb, one or more objectives for the self-aware light bulb based on the one or more characteristics and the one or more capabilities; and configuring, by the self-aware light bulb, at least one setting of at least one parameter of the self-aware light bulb to achieve the one or more objectives.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: monitoring, by the self-aware light bulb, the one or more characteristics of the environment using the one or more instruments; determining, by the self-aware light bulb, one or more actions to perform to achieve the one or more objectives; executing, by the self-aware light bulb, the one or more actions.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the executing the one or more actions comprises employing a tool included in the one or more instruments.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the executing the one or more actions comprises coordinating with at least one other self-aware light bulb to execute the one or more actions.
</claims>
</document>
