<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S15/02,G01S15/86,G01S15/89,G01S15/93,G01V1/00,G06K9/00,G08B23/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAEDA KAZUHIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66437769
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information presentation system, moving vehicle, information presentation method, and non-transitory storage medium
</title>

<abstract>
An information presentation system according to the present disclosure makes a presentation unit present each of multiple different pieces of information such that an image displayed in a first form and a sound output in a second form are synchronized with each other on an individual basis. The information presentation system also makes the presentation unit shift, when presenting two different pieces of information, selected from the multiple different pieces of information, as two sounds in the second form, a timing to output one of the two sounds by at least a certain period of time with respect to a timing to output the other of the two sounds, in order to prevent the two sounds from overlapping with each other.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information presentation system configured to make a presentation circuit, having an ability to present multiple different pieces of information that are associated one to one with a plurality of objects to be detected which are present in an object space, change a first form of presentation of an image displayed and a second form of presentation of a sound output with respect to each of the multiple different pieces of information in accordance with distances to the plurality of objects to be detected, the information presentation system making the presentation circuit present each of the multiple different pieces of information such that the image presented in the first form and the sound presented in the second form are synchronized with each other on an individual basis, the information presentation system making the presentation circuit shift, when presenting two different pieces of information, selected from the multiple different pieces of information, as two sounds in the second form, a timing to output one of the two sounds by at least a certain period of time with respect to a timing to output the other of the two sounds, in order to prevent the two sounds from overlapping with each other.
2. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the presentation circuit includes a single display, and the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit display, in the first form, multiple images, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, on the display.
3. The information presentation system of claim 2, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit output, when presenting the multiple different pieces of information in the second form, multiple sounds, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, at mutually different frequencies.
4. The information presentation system of claim 2, wherein the presentation circuit includes an audio output circuit, and the information presentation system makes the audio output circuit adjust, when the presentation circuit presents the multiple different pieces of information as sounds, angles of incidence at which the sounds, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, are incident on their respective target regions such that a difference between the angles of incidence of the sounds on the target regions becomes equal to or greater than a certain angle.
5. The information presentation system of claim 2, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit present, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, some pieces of information, which are selected from the multiple different pieces of information and given a relatively high degree of priority and of which a number is equal to the upper limit.
6. The information presentation system of claim 2, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit divide, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, the multiple different pieces of information into a number, which is equal to the upper limit, of groups of information, and present the groups of information.
7. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit output, when presenting the multiple different pieces of information in the second form, multiple sounds, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, at mutually different frequencies.
8. The information presentation system of claim 7, wherein the presentation circuit includes an audio output circuit, and the information presentation system makes the audio output circuit adjust, when the presentation circuit presents the multiple different pieces of information as sounds, angles of incidence at which the sounds, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, are incident on their respective target regions such that a difference between the angles of incidence of the sounds on the target regions becomes equal to or greater than a certain angle.
9. The information presentation system of claim 7, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit present, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, some pieces of information, which are selected from the multiple different pieces of information and given a relatively high degree of priority and of which a number is equal to the upper limit.
10. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the presentation circuit includes an audio output circuit, and the information presentation system makes the audio output circuit adjust, when the presentation circuit presents the multiple different pieces of information as sounds, angles of incidence at which the sounds, associated one to one with the multiple different pieces of information, are incident on their respective target regions such that a difference between the angles of incidence of the sounds on the target regions becomes equal to or greater than a certain angle.
11. The information presentation system of claim 10, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit present, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, some pieces of information, which are selected from the multiple different pieces of information and given a relatively high degree of priority and of which a number is equal to the upper limit.
12. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit present, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, some pieces of information, which are selected from the multiple different pieces of information and given a relatively high degree of priority and of which a number is equal to the upper limit.
13. The information presentation system of claim 12, wherein each of the multiple different pieces of information is given a degree of priority that increases as a distance to an associated one of the plurality of objects to be detected decreases.
14. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the information presentation system makes the presentation circuit divide, when finding a number of the multiple different pieces of information greater than an upper limit of a number of pieces of information to be presented by the presentation circuit itself, the multiple different pieces of information into a number, which is equal to the upper limit, of groups of information, and present the groups of information.
15. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the certain period of time is a fixed value.
16. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the certain period of time varies according to a distance between the plurality of objects to be detected.
17. The information presentation system of claim 1, wherein the certain period of time increases as a number of the plurality of objects to be detected increases.
18. A moving vehicle comprising: the information presentation system of claim 1; and a moving vehicle body equipped with the presentation circuit.
19. An information presentation method comprising making a presentation circuit, having an ability to present multiple different pieces of information that are associated one to one with a plurality of objects to be detected which are present in an object space, change a first form of presentation of an image displayed and a second form of presentation of a sound output with respect to each of the multiple different pieces of information in accordance with distances to the plurality of objects to be detected, the method including: making the presentation circuit present each of the multiple different pieces of information such that the image displayed in the first form and the sound output in the second form are synchronized with each other on an individual basis; and shifting, when presenting two different pieces of information, selected from the multiple different pieces of information, as two sounds in the second form, a timing to output one of the two sounds by at least a certain period of time with respect to a timing to output the other of the two sounds, in order to prevent the two sounds from overlapping with each other.
20. A non-transitory storage medium storing a program that is designed to make a computer system perform processing of making a presentation circuit, having an ability to present multiple different pieces of information that are associated one to one with a plurality of objects to be detected which are present in an object space, change a first form of presentation of an image displayed and a second form of presentation of a sound output with respect to each of the multiple different pieces of information in accordance with distances to the plurality of objects to be detected, the processing including: making the presentation circuit present each of the multiple different pieces of information such that the image displayed in the first form and the sound output in the second form are synchronized with each other on an individual basis; and shifting, when presenting two different pieces of information, selected from the multiple different pieces of information, as two sounds in the second form, a timing to output one of the two sounds by at least a certain period of time with respect to a timing to output the other of the two sounds, in order to prevent the two sounds from overlapping with each other.
</claims>
</document>
