<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/9535,G06F16/958,G06F17/30,G06F3/0484,G06F9/44,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WIX.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOREN, DAN
SADEH, EYAL
DREIZIS, ILANA
ZELMANOVICH, IGOR
PHILOSOPH, MOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60420580
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for the creation and update of hierarchical websites based on collected business knowledge
</title>

<abstract>
A method for a website building system, the method includes gathering and analyzing business family and industry data related to a website designer using the website building system from a plurality of sources external and internal to the website building system, wherein the data is associated with information about the designer extracted from answers to at least one questionnaire and from available business identifying information for the website designer; offering to the designer in conjunction with a website editor, multiple layout solutions based on pre-defined design elements to handle content and layout associated with the data based on ranking, machine learning and artificial intelligence; enabling the designer to select and edit at least one layout solution; and generating a website for the designer based on the at least one selected layout solution.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a website building system, the method being performed by a hardware processor, said method comprising: gathering and analyzing business family and industry data related to a website designer using said website building system from a plurality of sources external and internal to said website building system, wherein said data is associated with information about said designer extracted from answers to at least one questionnaire and from available business identifying information for said website designer; offering to said designer in conjunction with a website editor, multiple layout solutions based on pre-defined design elements to handle content and layout associated with said data based on ranking, machine learning and artificial intelligence; enabling said designer to select and edit at least one layout solution; and generating a website for said designer based on said at least one selected layout solution wherein said generating a website comprises: running said at least one questionnaire and at least receiving said information from said designer about said designer and the business of said designer; and determining said business family and said business industry based on said information; providing direct creation and editing of websites and to enable said designer to edit said generated website using a component editing interface; analyzing content, aesthetics and layout related elements from other designers of said website building system at least within said business industry and said business family based on said information and said related information; generating at least one of: at least one industry-preferred layout element having industry-preferred aesthetics, an element-based website of said designer and improved question element types for questionnaires; and using artificial intelligence to provide an evolving and continuously improving interaction with said designer based on the output of said analyzing content, aesthetics and layout related elements.
2. The method according to claim 1 wherein said design elements are at least one of: layout elements, layout groups and page sections.
3. The method according to claim 1 and wherein said multiple layout solutions are based on at least one of: predefined layout related elements, said business family related site structure, said business industry related media and a design kit.
4. The method according to claim 3 and also comprising coordinating editing changes made designer selected layout solution from a layout selection storage.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein said gathering and analyzing comprises: importing said business family and industry data from relevant social media sites; extracting and importing said business family and industry data from data feeds; and importing and analyzing the relevance of said business family and industry data from external websites.
6. The method according to claim 5 and also comprising: importing offline documents relevant to said related information; and analyzing the relevance of said offline documents.
7. The method according to claim 5 and also comprising: analyzing general designer information stored by said website building system while maintaining designer privacy; analyzing general BI (business intelligence) information stored by said website building system; and analyzing the editing history of said designer.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein said generating a website also comprises at least one of: generating and running A/B tests at least on said questionnaires and said information; and enabling said designer to generate said site using voice commands.
9. The method according to claim 1 wherein said available business identifying information comprises at least one of: GPS (global positioning system) location of said designer, IP (internet protocol) details of said designer, information extracted through a smartphone, a camera or a sensor of said designer and a client device and software details of said designer.
10. A website building system comprising: an answer analyzer, stored in a memory, to analyze information extracted from answers to at least one questionnaire related to a website designer using said website building system; at least one data gatherer, stored in the memory, to gather business family and industry data related to said website designer based on said information extracted from said answers and from available business identifying information for said designer, from a plurality of sources external and internal to said website building system; a layout solution handler, stored in the memory, to offer to said designer in conjunction with a website editor for selection, multiple layout solutions based on pre-defined design elements to handle content and layout associated with said data based on ranking, machine learning and artificial intelligence; wherein said editor enables said designer to select and edit at least one layout solution; and a site generation system, stored in the memory, to generate a website based said at least one selected layout solution wherein said site generation system comprises: a questionnaire runner to run said at least one questionnaire and at least to receive information from said designer about said designer and the business of said designer; and a family and industry determiner to determine said business family and said business industry based on said information; a visual editor to provide direct creation and editing of sites and to enable said designer to edit said generated website using a component editing interface; a crowd source analyzer to analyze content, aesthetics and layout related elements from other designers of said website building system at least within said business industry and said business family based on said information and related information to generate at least one of: at least one industry-preferred layout element having industry-preferred aesthetics, an element-based website of said designer and improved question element types for questionnaires; and a machine learner using artificial intelligence to provide an evolving and continuously improving interaction with said designer based on the output of said crowd source analyzer.
11. The system according to claim 10 wherein said design elements are at least one of: layout elements, layout groups and page sections.
12. The system according to claim 10 and wherein said multiple layout solutions are based on at least one of: predefined layout related elements, said business family related site structure, said business industry related media and a design kit.
13. The system according to claim 12 and also comprising a layout selection store handler to coordinate editing changes made to a designer selected layout solution from a layout selection storage.
14. The system according to claim 10 wherein at least one data gatherer comprises: a social media importer to import said related information from relevant social media sites; a data feed importer to extract and import said related information from data feeds; and an external website importer and analyzer to import and analyze the relevance of said related information from external websites.
15. The system according to claim 14 and also comprising: a document importer to import offline documents relevant to said related information; and a data analyzer to analyze the relevance of said offline documents.
16. The system according to claim 14 and also comprising: an additional designer data analyzer to analyze general designer information stored by said website building system, said additional designer data analyzer having a privacy maintainer to maintain designer privacy; a BI (business intelligence) analyzer to analyze general BI information stored by said website building system; and an editing history analyzer to analyze the editing history of said designer.
17. The system according to claim 10 wherein said site generation system also comprises at least one of: an A/B tester to generate and run A/B tests at least on said questionnaires and said information; and a site voice walkthrough driver to enable said designer to generate said site using voice commands.
18. The system according to claim 10 wherein said available business identifying information comprises at least one of: GPS (global positioning system) location of said designer, IP (internet protocol) details of said designer, information extracted through a smartphone, a camera or a sensor of said designer and a client device and software details of said designer.
</claims>
</document>
