<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J50/10,H02J50/20,H04B3/52,H04B3/54,H04B3/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
BARZEGAR FARHAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051888
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for providing power to a waveguide system
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, providing, by a power supply of a communication device, energy to a transmitter of the communication device, wherein the power supply directly obtains the energy from a transmission medium via a capacitive divider and a DC converter, and wherein the communication device includes an insulator that electrically insulates the transmission medium from a utility structure supporting the communication device; generating, by the transmitter of the communication device, a signal; and inducing according to the signal, by a coupler of the communication device, an electromagnetic wave that propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a housing that supports a transmission medium and that is connectable to a utility structure, the housing comprising an insulator that electrically insulates the transmission medium from the utility structure; a coupler supported by the housing, the coupler facilitating inducing an electromagnetic wave that propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; a transmitter that is supported by the housing and that is connected to the coupler; and a power circuit that is supported by the housing, the power circuit including a capacitive divider and a Direct Current (DC) converter, wherein the power circuit, via the capacitive divider and the DC converter, provides DC power at a step down voltage to the transmitter when the power circuit is directly connected to the transmission medium and is directly connected to a ground or a neutral line, wherein the power circuit does not obtain energy inductively from the transmission medium, and wherein the transmitter facilitates generating a signal that enables the coupler to induce the electromagnetic wave that propagates along the transmission medium.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the capacitive divider comprises first and second capacitors having different capacitance values that are in a target ratio.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the power circuit comprises a safety resistor positioned between the transmission medium and the first and second capacitors.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the target ratio is 10 to 1.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein the transmission medium is a medium voltage power line.
6. The device of claim 2, wherein the DC converter comprises a diode bridge rectifier.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the power circuit comprises an isolated switched-mode power supply.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the DC converter comprises a diode bridge rectifier, and wherein the power circuit comprises a third capacitor positioned between the diode bridge rectifier and the isolated switched-mode power supply.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupler is a first coupler, and further comprising: a second coupler supported by the housing, the second coupler facilitating inducing another electromagnetic wave that propagates along the transmission medium without requiring the electrical return path, wherein the transmitter is connected to the second coupler.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the insulator defines an inner cavity, wherein the power circuit is positioned in the inner cavity.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupler comprises a metallic structure coupled to the transmitter, and wherein the metallic structure comprises a conical structure with non-contiguous openings, wherein the housing comprises a mounting spike, and wherein the power circuit is directly connected to the ground via the mounting spike.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmitter is part of a transceiver that facilitates transmitting and receiving electromagnetic waves that propagate along the transmission medium without requiring the electrical return path, wherein the insulator defines an inner cavity, and wherein the power circuit and the transceiver are positioned in the inner cavity.
13. A device comprising: a housing that supports a power line and that is connectable to a utility structure, the housing comprising an insulator that electrically insulates the power line from the utility structure; a coupler supported by the housing, the coupler facilitating inducing or receiving an electromagnetic wave that propagates along the power line without requiring an electrical return path; a transceiver that is supported by the housing and that is connected to the coupler; and a power circuit that is supported by the housing, the power circuit including first and second capacitors and a DC converter, the first and second capacitors having different capacitance values that are in a target ratio, wherein the power circuit, via the first and second capacitors and the DC converter, provides DC power at a step down voltage to the transceiver when the power circuit is directly connected to the power line and is directly connected to a ground or a neutral line, and wherein the transceiver facilitates generating a signal that enables the coupler to induce the electromagnetic wave that propagates along the power line or facilitates receiving the signal via the coupler from the electromagnetic wave that propagates along the power line.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the power line is a medium voltage power line.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the target ratio is 10 to 1.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the DC converter comprises a diode bridge rectifier.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein the power circuit comprises a safety resistor positioned between the power line and the first and second capacitors.
18. The device of claim 13, wherein the power circuit comprises an isolated switched-mode power supply.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the DC converter comprises a diode bridge rectifier, and wherein the power circuit comprises a third capacitor positioned between the diode bridge rectifier and the isolated switched-mode power supply.
20. A method, comprising: providing, by a power supply of a communication device, energy to a transmitter of the communication device, wherein the power supply directly obtains the energy from a transmission medium via a capacitive divider and a DC converter, and wherein the communication device includes an insulator that electrically insulates the transmission medium from a utility structure supporting the communication device; generating, by the transmitter of the communication device, a signal; and inducing according to the signal, by a coupler of the communication device, an electromagnetic wave that propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
</claims>
</document>
