<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SHANGHAI UNITED IMAGING HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN GANG
LI QIANG
SONG YANLI
XING, XIAODAN
ZHOU, XIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65437267
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for determining a trained neural network model for scattering correction
</title>

<abstract>
A method for generating a trained neural network model for scanning correction corresponding to one or more imaging parameters is provided. The trained neural network model may be trained using training data. The training data may include at least one first set of training data. The first set of training data may be generated according to a process for generating the first set of training data. The process may include obtaining a first image and a second image corresponding to the one or more imaging parameters. The second image may include less scattering noises than the first image. The process may further include determine the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a storage device storing a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to: generate a trained neural network model for scattering correction corresponding to one or more imaging parameters, wherein the trained neural network model is trained using training data, the training data including at least one first set of training data, the first set of training data being generated according to a process for generating the first set of training data, the process including: obtaining a first image corresponding to the one or more imaging parameters; obtaining a second image, the second image including less scattering noises than the first image; and determining, based on the first image and the second image, the first set of training data.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the second image is generated according to second scan data acquired by an imaging device configured with a grid under the one or more imaging parameters, and the first image is generated according to first scan data acquired by the imaging device without the grid under the one or more imaging parameters, or the first image is generated according to the first scan data acquired by the imaging device without the grid under the one or more imaging parameters, and the second image is generated based on the first image by removing at least some of the scattering noises of the first image, or the first image and the second image are simulated according to a Monte-Carlo technique under the one or more imaging parameters.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: processing the first image; processing the second image; and determining, based on the processed first image and the processed second image, the first set of training data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first set of training data includes input data and tag data, and determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: selecting a first sub-area from the first image; designating image data related to the first sub-area as the input data; selecting, from the second image, a second sub-area corresponding to the first sub-area; and designating image data related to the second sub-area as the tag data.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein to generate the trained neural network model for scattering correction, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: acquire a preliminary neural network model; determine, by inputting the training data into the preliminary neural network model, one or more model parameters; and determine, based on the one or more model parameters and the preliminary neural network model, the trained neural network model.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: decomposing the first image into a plurality of sets of first decomposition data; decomposing the second image into a plurality of sets of second decomposition data, the number of the plurality of sets of first decomposition data being equal to the number of the plurality of sets of second decomposition data; generating, based on the plurality of sets of first decomposition data and the plurality of sets of second decomposition data, a plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data, each of the plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data including a set of first decomposition data and a corresponding set of second decomposition data; and determining, based on one of the plurality of matching pair of decomposition data, the first set of training data.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein: the decomposing of the first image is performed according to a frequency of at least one of the first image or image data related to the first image, and the decomposing of the second image is performed according to a frequency of at least one of the second image or image data related to the second image.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein: the decomposing of the first image is performed according to at least one of a wavelet decomposition technique or a Laplacian decomposition technique, and the decomposing of the second image is performed according to at least one of the wavelet decomposition technique or the Laplacian decomposition technique.
9. The system of claim 6, wherein: the plurality of sets of first decomposition data include a plurality of first decomposed images corresponding to a plurality of frequency bands, the plurality of sets of second decomposition data include a plurality of second decomposed images corresponding to the plurality of frequency bands, and wherein to generate the trained neural network model for scattering correction, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: determine, for each of the plurality of frequency bands, a relationship between a first decomposed image corresponding to the frequency band and a second decomposed image corresponding to the frequency band; and determine the trained neural network model for scattering correction based on the determined relationships for the plurality of frequency bands.
10. A system, comprising: a storage device storing a set of instructions; and at least one processor configured to communicate with the storage device, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is configured to direct the system to: obtain a target image; obtain one or more target imaging parameters corresponding to the target image; obtain one or more trained neural network models for scattering correction corresponding to one or more sets of imaging parameters; select, among the one or more trained neural network models for scattering correction, a target trained neural network model for scattering correction corresponding to the one or more target imaging parameters; and correct, using the target trained neural network model for scattering correction, the target image.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein one of the one or more trained neural network model for scattering correction is trained using training data, the training data including at least one first set of training data, the first set of training data being generated by a process for generating the first set of training data, the process including: obtaining a first image corresponding to the one or more imaging parameters; obtaining a second image, the second image including less scattering noises than the first image; and determining, based on the first image and the second image, the first set of training data.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein to correct the target image, the at least one processor is further configured to direct the system to: decompose the target image into a plurality of decomposed target images corresponding to a plurality of frequency bands; correct, based on the target trained neural network model, the plurality of decomposed target images; and generate the corrected target image based on the plurality of corrected decomposed target images.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: decomposing the first image into a plurality of sets of first decomposition data; decomposing the second image into a plurality of sets of second decomposition data, the number of the plurality of sets of first decomposition data being equal to the number of the plurality of sets of second decomposition data; generating, based on the plurality of sets of first decomposition data and the plurality of sets of second decomposition data, a plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data, each of the plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data including a set of first decomposition data and a corresponding set of second decomposition data; and determining, based on one of the plurality of matching pair of decomposition data, the first set of training data.
14. A method implemented on a computing device including a storage device and at least one processor, comprising: generating a trained neural network model for scattering correction corresponding to one or more imaging parameters, wherein the trained neural network model is trained using training data, the training data including at least one first set of training data, the first set of training data being generated according to a process for generating the first set of training data, the process including: obtaining a first image corresponding to the one or more imaging parameters; obtaining a second image, the second image including less scattering noises than the first image; and determining, based on the first image and the second image, the first set of training data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: processing the first image; processing the second image; and determining, based on the processed first image and the processed second image, the first set of training data.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein: the first set of training data includes input data and tag data, and determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: selecting a first sub-area from the first image; designating image data related to the first sub-area as the input data; selecting, from the second image, a second sub-area corresponding to the first sub-area; and designating image data related to the second sub-area as the tag data.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the generating the trained neural network model for scattering correction further comprises: acquiring a preliminary neural network model; determining, by inputting the training data into the preliminary neural network model, one or more model parameters; and determining, based on the one or more model parameters and the preliminary neural network model, the trained neural network model.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first set of training data includes input data and tag data, and the one or more model parameters include a relationship between the input data and the tag data, and the determining the one or more model parameters further comprises: dividing the input data into a plurality of first data blocks; dividing the tag data into a plurality of second data blocks corresponding to the plurality of first data blocks; determining first gradient information of the first data blocks; determining second gradient information of the second data blocks; and determining, based on the first gradient information and the second gradient information, the relationship between the input data and the tag data.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the first set of training data based on the first image and the second image further comprises: decomposing the first image into a plurality of sets of first decomposition data; decomposing the second image into a plurality of sets of second decomposition data, the number of the plurality of sets of first decomposition data being equal to the number of the plurality of sets of second decomposition data; generating, based on the plurality of sets of first decomposition data and the plurality of sets of second decomposition data, a plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data, each of the plurality of matching pairs of decomposition data including a set of first decomposition data and a corresponding set of second decomposition data; and determining, based on one of the plurality of matching pair of decomposition data, the first set of training data.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: the decomposing of the first image is performed according to a frequency of at least one of the first image or image data related to the first image, and the decomposing of the second image is performed according to a frequency of at least one of the second image or image data related to the second image.
</claims>
</document>
