<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,G06F16/24,G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F16/635,G06F16/735,G06F16/9032,G06F16/9535,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAIRD, ALEXIS BLEVINS
BUCHANAN, ERIK EUGENE
JERSIN, JOHN ROBERT
MCCANN, BENJAMIN JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66948980
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Using feedback to create and modify candidate streams
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for dynamically altering weights to re-weight attributes of an ordering model based on feedback in a streaming environment are described. In an embodiment, a system accesses, based on a candidate stream definition comprising a role including a title, one or more stream-related information sources, and extracts attributes from the sources. Additionally, the system inputs the attributes to a combined ordering model that is trained by a machine learning algorithm to output ordering scores for member profiles of an online system (e.g., hosting a social networking service). The combined ordering model includes weights assigned to the attributes. Moreover, the system orders, based on the ordering scores, the profiles. Furthermore, the system presents, on a display, of top-ordered profiles. Then, the system accesses feedback regarding the top-ordered profiles and dynamically trains the weights assigned to each of the attributes to alter the weights assigned to the attributes based on the feedback.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the computer system to perform operations comprising: accessing a candidate stream definition comprising a role, the role including a title; accessing, based on the candidate stream definition, one or more stream-related information sources; extracting one or more attributes from the one or more stream-related information sources; inputting the one or more attributes to a combined ordering model, the combined ordering model trained by a machine learning algorithm to output an ordering score for each of one or more member profiles of members of an online system, the combined ordering model including weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes; ordering, based on the ordering scores, the one or more member profiles; causing presentation, on a display device, of one or more top-ordered member profiles; accessing feedback regarding the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the feedback.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein: the online system hosts a social networking service; and the candidate stream definition further includes a geographic location and an organization.
3. The computer system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: repeating the ordering based on the altered weights; updating the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles on the display device, the updating being based on the repeating; accessing additional feedback regarding the updated display of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically re-training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the additional feedback.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the feedback includes explicit feedback from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the explicit feedback includes positive or negative feedback regarding one or more of: a role; a title; a location; a degree; an educational institution; a major; an industry; an organization; a seniority level; a number of years of experience; acceptance, deferral, or rejection of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; similarity between attributes of a positively-rated candidate and attributes of one of the or more top-ordered member profiles; and similarity between an employer of a positively-rated candidate and an employer of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the feedback includes feedback from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the feedback from the user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles includes one or more of: dwell time on the one or more top-ordered member profiles; profile sections viewed of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and a number of revisits to the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein extracting the one or more attributes comprises one or more of: extracting a location from the one or more stream-related information sources; extracting a degree from the one or more stream-related information sources; extracting a major from the one or more stream-related information sources; extracting a title from the one or more stream-related information sources and accessing titles related to the title from a data store or algorithm that maps titles to their related titles; and extracting skills from the one or more stream-related information sources and mapping the extracted skills to skill identifiers.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: accessing a candidate stream definition comprising a role, the role including a title; accessing, based on the candidate stream definition, one or more stream-related information sources; extracting one or more attributes from the one or more stream-related information sources; inputting the one or more attributes to a combined ordering model, the combined ordering model trained by a machine learning algorithm to output an ordering score for each of one or more member profiles of members of an online system, the combined ordering model including weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes; ordering, based on the ordering scores, the one or more member profiles; causing presentation, on a display device, of one or more top-ordered member profiles; accessing feedback regarding the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the feedback.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: repeating the ordering based on the altered weights; updating the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles on the display device, the updating being based on the repeating; accessing additional feedback regarding the updated display of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically re-training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the additional feedback.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the feedback includes explicit feedback obtained from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the explicit feedback includes positive or negative feedback regarding one or more of: a role; a title; a location; a degree; an educational institution; a major; an industry; an organization; a seniority level; a number of years of experience; acceptance, deferral, or rejection of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; similarity between attributes of a positively-rated candidate and attributes of one of the or more top-ordered member profiles; and similarity between an employer of a positively-rated candidate and an employer of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the feedback includes feedback from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the feedback from the user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles includes one or more of: dwell time on the one or more top-ordered member profiles; profile sections viewed of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and a number of revisits to the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors of a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: accessing a candidate stream definition comprising a role, the role including a title; accessing, based on the candidate stream definition, one or more stream-related information sources; extracting one or more attributes from the one or more stream-related information sources; inputting the one or more attributes to a combined ordering model, the combined ordering model trained by a machine learning algorithm to output an ordering score for each of one or more member profiles of members of an online system, the combined ordering model including weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes; ordering, based on the ordering scores, the one or more member profiles; causing presentation, on a display device, of one or more top-ordered member profiles; accessing feedback regarding the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the feedback.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: repeating the ordering based on the altered weights; updating the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles on the display device, the updating being based on the repeating; accessing additional feedback regarding the updated display of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and dynamically re-training the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes to alter the weights assigned to each of the one or more attributes based on the additional feedback.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the feedback includes explicit feedback from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the explicit feedback includes positive or negative feedback regarding one or more of: a role; a title; a location; a degree; an educational institution; a major; an industry; an organization; a seniority level; a number of years of experience; acceptance, deferral, or rejection of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; similarity between attributes of a positively-rated candidate and attributes of one of the or more top-ordered member profiles; and similarity between an employer of a positively-rated candidate and an employer of one of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the feedback includes feedback from a user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the feedback from the user interacting with the presentation of the one or more top-ordered member profiles includes one or more of: dwell time on the one or more top-ordered member profiles; profile sections viewed of the one or more top-ordered member profiles; and a number of revisits to the one or more top-ordered member profiles.
</claims>
</document>
