<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/46,A63F13/79,A63F13/828
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRAFTKINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MENDELL, JORDAN
DUNN, TRAVIS
WARD, BRANDON JOSEPH
LO, FRANK
GROVE, BRENDAN THOMPSON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68838618
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for algorithmically arranging contests in a lobby interface
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for algorithmically arranging contests in a lobby interface are provided. A contest management system can generate, execute and maintain a plurality of contests, such as but not limited to, fantasy sports contests. Rank values can be assigned to the contests using pacing parameters of the contests and profile attributes of users who participate in the contests. The pacing parameters, such as registration ratios and registration deadlines, can indicate if a particular contest is on pace to meet a registration threshold prior to their respective registration deadline. The contest management system can dynamically update, responsive to receiving a plurality of registrations from a plurality of users, the rank value of one or more contests responsive to a change in a registration ratio of at least one contest and arrange the plurality of contests in a lobby interface based on the updated rank values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for algorithmically arranging contests in a lobby interface, the method comprising: identifying, by one or more processors, a plurality of contests to be provided in a lobby interface to a plurality of users, the plurality of contests having a plurality of contest attributes; determining, by the one or more processors, for each contest of the plurality of contests, a respective allocation of computer resources to maintain the respective contest, wherein the respective allocation of computer resources is based on at least one parameter of processing power or processing time; allocating, by the one or more processors, to each contest of the plurality of contests, the respective allocation of computer resources; determining, by the one or more processors, a registration ratio for each of the plurality of contests and a registration deadline for each of the plurality of contests; determining, by the one or more processors using a contest pacing algorithm, a contest pacing score for each of the plurality of contests, the contest pacing score of each contest determined using the respective registration ratio and the respective registration deadline of the contest; determining, by the one or more processors, using a grouping algorithm, a plurality of groups of contests based on the contest attributes of the plurality of contests; computing, by the one or more processors using a ranking algorithm, for each contest in a first group of the plurality of groups of contests, a rank value for the each contest based on the contest pacing score of the respective contest, a first contest attribute of each contest, and a second contest attribute of each contest, wherein the first contest attribute has a first weight greater than a second weight of the second contest attribute, and wherein the ranking algorithm uses the first weight and the second weight to compute the rank value; updating the rank value of at least one contest of the plurality of contests responsive to a change in a registration ratio of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests; and based on the updated rank value of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests, arranging, by the one or more processors, the plurality of contests for display within a lobby interface to improve allocation of computer resources.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the one or more processors using the contest pacing algorithm, one or more contests of the plurality of contests have registration ratios that are less than a registration threshold and the registration deadline of the one or more contests is within a predetermined time period.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: selecting, by the one or more processors using the contest pacing algorithm, one or more contests of the plurality of contests; and ranking, by the one or more processors using the ranking algorithm, the one or more contests based on a difference between their respective registration ratio and their respective registration threshold.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: generating, by the one or more processors, recommendations for the plurality of users based on the plurality of contests using the rank value and the difference between their respective registration ratio and their respective registration threshold.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to a change in the registration ratio of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests further comprises updating the rank value of the at least one contest based on a time difference between a current time and the registration deadline.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first contest attribute or the second contest attribute include one or more of the following: a sport category, a price parameter, a prize parameter, a registrant threshold, a registrant limit, a current registrant count, a day value, a time value, a duration value, a contest type, and an experience level.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, by the one or more processors, to a client device of the plurality of client devices, instructions to display the lobby interface on the client device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to the change in the registration ratio of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests further comprises updating the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to receiving at least one registration for a first contest of the first group of contests from at least one of the plurality of users.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein updating the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to the change in the registration ratio of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests further comprises updating the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to satisfying an update condition specified by a rank update policy.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring, by the one or more processors, for changes in the registration ratios of one or more contests of the plurality of contests; and updating the rank value of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests responsive to detecting a change in the registrations of the one or more contests of the plurality of contests.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating the plurality of contests based on profile attributes associated with the plurality of users.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the profile attributes include one or more of the following: a history of past contests, a plurality of lineups, a user type, a location, an activity profile and price parameters.
13. A system for generating a multidimensional data structure using fantasy sports account activity, comprising: one or more processors; and memory comprising; computer-readable instructions stored in memory that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: identify a plurality of contests to be provided in a lobby interface to a plurality of users, the plurality of contests having a plurality of contest attributes; determine, for each contest of the plurality of contests, a respective allocation of computer resources to maintain the respective contest, wherein the respective allocation of computer resources is based on at least one parameter of processing power or processing time; allocate, to each contest of the plurality of contests, the respective allocation of computer resources; determine a registration ratio for each of the plurality of contests and a registration deadline for each of the plurality of contests; determine, using a contest pacing algorithm, a contest pacing score for each of the plurality of contests, the contest pacing score of each contest determined using the respective registration ratio and the respective registration deadline of the contest; determine, using a grouping algorithm, a plurality of groups of contests based on the contest attributes of the plurality of contests; compute, using a ranking algorithm, for each contest in a first group of the plurality of groups of contests, a rank value for each contest based on the contest pacing score of the respective contest, a first contest attribute of each contest, and a second contest attribute of each contest, wherein the first contest attribute has a first weight greater than a second weight of the second contest attribute, and wherein the ranking algorithm uses the first weight and the second weight to compute the rank value; update the rank value of at least one contest of the plurality of contests responsive to a change in a registration ratio of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests; and based on the updated rank value of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests, arrange the plurality of contests for display within a lobby interface to improve allocation of computer resources.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: determine, using the contest pacing algorithm, one or more contests of the plurality of contests have registration ratios that are less than a registration threshold and the registration deadline of the one or more contests is within a predetermined time period.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: select, using the contest pacing algorithm, one or more contests of the plurality of contests; and rank, using the ranking algorithm, the one or more contests based on a difference between their respective registration ratio and their respective registration threshold.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: generate recommendations for the plurality of users based on the plurality of contests using the rank value and the difference between their respective registration ratio and their respective registration threshold.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: update the rank value of the at least one contest based on a time difference between a current time and the registration deadline.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: transmit, to a client device of the plurality of client devices, instructions to display the lobby interface on the client device.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: update the rank value of the at least one contest responsive to receiving at least one registration for a first contest of the first group of contests from at least one of the plurality of users.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the one or more processors to: monitor for changes in the registration ratios of one or more contests of the plurality of contests; and update the rank value of the at least one contest of the plurality of contests responsive to detecting a change in the registrations of the one or more contests of the plurality of contests.
</claims>
</document>
