<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/17,G06F17/18,G06F21/62,G06N7/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, XI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68692733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bayesian smoothing of confidential data values at organization level using peer organization group
</title>

<abstract>
In an example embodiment, submitted confidential data of a certain cohort (e.g., title, region, organization) is augmented by modeling confidential data of a more generalized cohort based on peer organizations. The modeling may be performed using Bayesian modeling and the results used to infer confidential data values for the original cohort. The inferred confidential data values can then be used to generate statistical insights for display in a graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the system to: obtain, via one or more graphical user interface, a plurality of electronic data submissions, each electronic data submission having user identification information and a corresponding confidential data value; store each of the electronic data submissions in a row of a submission table by encrypting the user identification information using a first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted user identification information in a first column of the submission table, and encrypting the confidential data value using a second cryptographic key different than the first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted confidential data value in a second column o the submission table, thereby deidentifying the confidential data values; determine that a first deidentified set of confidential data values for a first organization contains fewer values than a predetermined threshold for providing a statistical insight, the first deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having a first value for a first attribute and a second value for a second attribute; in response to the determining: retrieve a second deidentified set of confidential data values for organizations identified as peer organizations for the first organization, the second deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having the first value for the first attribute and the second value for the second attribute; model the second deidentified set of confidential data values using a Bayesian model; infer one or more confidential data values for the first organization using the modeled second deidentified set of confidential data values; calculate a statistical insight based on the inferred one or more confidential data values; and cause display of the statistical insight in a graphical user interface rendered on a display.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the first attribute is title and the second attribute is region.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values for employment.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the organizations are identified as peer organizations for the first organization by: obtaining, for the first organization, information about transitions made by employees of the first organization to another organization or from another organization to the first organization; calculating, for each particular organization of a plurality of organizations other than the first organization, a total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; for each of a plurality of combinations of the first organization and a different particular organization in the plurality of organizations other than the first organization, calculate a peer score based on the total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; and identifying one or more of the different particular organizations that are part of a peer organization group with the first organization based on the calculated peer scores.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the calculating the peer score includes using negative sampling by randomly retrieving information about organizations not having any employees with transitions to or from the first organization.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the identifying comprises: generating a matrix of organization-organization peer scores; and using matrix factorization to generate organization group clusters.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the system to generate a graphical user interface containing the statistical insight as well as a graphic depicting a histogram related to the statistical insight.
8. A computerized method, comprising: obtaining, via one or more graphical user interface, a plurality of electronic data submissions, each electronic data submission having user identification information and a corresponding confidential data value; storing each of the electronic data submissions in a row of a submission table by encrypting the user identification information using a first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted user identification information in a first column of the submission table, and encrypting the confidential data value using a second cryptographic key different than the first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted confidential data value in a second column o the submission table, thereby deidentifying the confidential data values; determining that a first deidentified set of confidential data values for a first organization contains fewer values than a predetermined threshold for providing a statistical insight, the first deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having a first value for a first attribute and a second value for a second attribute; in response to the determining: retrieving a second deidentified set of confidential data values for organizations identified as peer organizations for the first organization, the second deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having the first value for the first attribute and the second value for the second attribute; modeling the second deidentified set of confidential data values using a Bayesian model; inferring one or more confidential data values for the first organization using the modeled second deidentified set of confidential data values; calculating a statistical insight based on the inferred one or more confidential data values; and causing display of the statistical insight in a graphical user interface rendered on a display.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first attribute is title and the second attribute is region.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values for employment.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the organizations are identified as peer organizations for the first organization by: obtaining, for the first organization, information about transitions made by employees of the first organization to another organization or from another organization to the first organization; calculating, for each particular organization of a plurality of organizations other than the first organization, a total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; for each of a plurality of combinations of the first organization and a different particular organization in the plurality of organizations other than the first organization, calculating a peer score based on the total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; and identifying one or more of the different particular organizations that are part of a peer organization group with the first organization based on the calculated peer scores.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the calculating the peer score includes using negative sampling by randomly retrieving information about organizations not having any employees with transitions to or from the first organization.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the identifying comprises: generating a matrix of organization-organization peer scores; and using matrix factorization to generate organization group clusters.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising generating a graphical user interface containing the statistical insight as well a graphic depicting a histogram related to the statistical insight.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: obtaining, via one or more graphical user interface, a plurality of electronic data submissions, each electronic data submission having user identification information and a corresponding confidential data value; storing each of the electronic data submissions in a row of a submission table by encrypting the user identification information using a first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted user identification information in a first column of the submission table, and encrypting the confidential data value using a second cryptographic key different than the first cryptographic key and storing the encrypted confidential data value in a second column o the submission table, thereby deidentifying the confidential data values; determining that a first deidentified set of confidential data values for a first organization contains fewer values than a predetermined threshold for providing a statistical insight, the first deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having a first value for a first attribute and a second value for a second attribute; in response to the determining: retrieving a second deidentified set of confidential data values for organizations identified as peer organizations for the first organization, the second deidentified set of confidential data values submitted by users in a cohort having the first value for the first attribute and the second value for the second attribute; modeling the second deidentified set of confidential data values using a Bayesian model; inferring one or more confidential data values for the first organization using the modeled second deidentified set of confidential data values; calculating a statistical insight based on the inferred one or more confidential data values; and causing display of the statistical insight in a graphical user interface rendered on a display.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first attribute is title and the second attribute is region.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values for employment.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the organizations are identified as peer organizations for the first organization by: obtaining, for the first organization, information about transitions made by employees of the first organization to another organization or from another organization to the first organization; calculating, for each particular organization of a plurality of organizations other than the first organization, a total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; for each of a plurality of combinations of the first organization and a different particular organization in the plurality of organizations other than the first organization, calculating a peer score based on the total number of transitions between the particular organization and the first organization; and identifying one or more of the different particular organizations that are part of a peer organization group with the first organization based on the calculated peer scores.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the calculating the peer score includes using negative sampling by randomly retrieving information about organizations not having any employees with transitions to or from the first organization.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the identifying comprises: generating a matrix of organization-organization peer scores; and using matrix factorization to generate organization group clusters.
</claims>
</document>
