<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F40/253,G06N20/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRIGGS, BENJAMIN D.
RIZZOLO, MICHAEL
CLEVENGER, LEIGH ANNE H.
CLEVENGER, LAWRENCE A.
SIPOLINS, ALDIS
PENNY, CHRISTOPER J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67139934
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Auto-incorrect in chatbot human-machine interfaces
</title>

<abstract>
Context appropriate errors are injected into conversational text generated by conversational agents. The conversational agent creates an imperfect conversational text containing at least one text entry error added to the original conversational text. A confidence level that at least one of context and meaning of the imperfect conversational text is consistent with the context and meaning of the original conversational text is determined, and the imperfect conversational text is communicated to a human recipient if the confidence level is above a pre-defined threshold.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for injecting context appropriate errors into conversational text generated by conversational agents, the method comprising: a conversational agent receiving an original conversational text; using the conversational agent to modify original conversational text to create an imperfect conversational text, wherein the modifying the original conversational text includes adding at least one text error to the conversational text; determining a confidence level that at least one of context and meaning of the imperfect conversational text is consistent with the context and meaning of the original conversational text; and communicating the imperfect conversational text to a human recipient if the confidence level is above a pre-defined threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the text entry error comprises a typographical error, a misspelling, an abbreviation, a colloquialism, a grammatical error, a context error or combinations thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-defined threshold level comprises a confidence level of about 90%.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the confidence level comprises using a natural language processing system to analyze the imperfect conversational text.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein analyzing the imperfect conversational text comprises comparing the original conversational text with the imperfect conversational text.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the confidence level comprises using dialect and cultural qualities associated with the human recipient in determining if at least one of the context and meaning is consistent.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises creating an alternate imperfect conversational text comprising at least one alternative text entry error when the confidence level is below the pre-defined threshold.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving at the conversational agent a reply conversational text from the human recipient indicating a failure to comprehend the imperfect conversational text; and communicating the original conversational text to the human recipient.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein: the text entry error comprises a misspelling of a given word; and the method further comprises sending a secondary conversational text to the human recipient after the imperfect conversational text, the secondary conversation text comprising only the given word properly spelled.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises generating a user profile for the human recipient comprising an acceptability of the human recipient to changes in at least one of context and meaning related to specific text entry errors.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the user profile comprises using machine learning.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein generating the user profile comprises using at least one of previous conversational agent generated text, previous human recipient generated text, human recipient demographic data, human recipient cultural data and human recipient feedback to generate the user profile.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: monitoring a reaction by the human recipient to the communicated conversational text; and using the monitored reaction to update the user profile.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein determining the confidence level comprises determining the confidence level based on the acceptability of the human recipient to changes in at least one of context and meaning related to text entry errors as provided in the user profile.
15. A computer-readable medium containing a computer-readable code that when read by a computer causes the computer to perform a method for injecting context appropriate errors into conversational text generated by conversational agents, the method comprising: using a conversational agent to receive an original conversational text; using the conversational agent to modify the original conversational text an imperfect conversational text, wherein the modifying the original conversational text includes adding at least one text error to the conversational text; determining a confidence level that at least one of context and meaning of the imperfect conversational text is consistent with the context and meaning of the original conversational text; and communicating the imperfect conversational text to a human recipient if the confidence level is above a pre-defined threshold.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises using at least one of previous conversational agent generated text, previous human recipient generated text, human recipient demographic data, human recipient cultural data and human recipient feedback to generate a user profile for the human recipient comprising an acceptability of the human recipient to changes in at least one of context and meaning related to specific text entry errors.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: monitoring a reaction by the human recipient to the communicated conversational text; and using the monitored reaction to update the user profile.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein determining the confidence level comprises determining the confidence level based on the acceptability of the human recipient to changes in at least one of context and meaning related to text entry errors as provided in the user profile.
19. A system for injecting context appropriate errors into conversational text generated by conversational agents, the system comprising: a database storing user profiles for human recipients, each user profile comprising an acceptability of a human recipient to changes in at least one of context and meaning related to specific text entry errors found in conversational text; and a conversational agent executing on a computing system, the conversational agent generating and exchanging conversational text with human recipients and comprising: a text error injection module to modify an original conversational text an imperfect conversational text, wherein the conversational agent receives the original conversational text, wherein the modifying the original conversational text includes adding at least one text error to the conversational text, ; a natural language processing module in communication with the text error injection module and the database to determine a confidence level that at least one of context and meaning of the imperfect conversational text is consistent with the context and meaning of the original conversational text based on the acceptability of a given human recipient to changes in at least one of the context and the meaning related to text entry errors as provided in the user profile associated with the given human recipient; and an input and output module executing on the computing system and in communication with the text error injection module and natural language processing module to communicate the imperfect conversational text to the given human recipient if the confidence level is above a pre-defined threshold.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the system further comprises: a user profile generation module in communication with the database, the user profile generation module using at least one of previous conversational agent generated text, previous human recipient generated text, human recipient demographic data, human recipient cultural data and human recipient feedback to generate user profiles for the human recipients; and a monitoring module executing on the computing system and in communication with the database to monitor conversational text exchanges between the conversational agent and human recipients to monitor a reaction by the given human recipient to the communicated conversational text and to use the monitored reaction to update the user profile.
</claims>
</document>
