<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F11/34,G06F16/28,H04L12/24,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SINGARAVELU, LENIN
BANERJEE, AMITABHA
HUANG, XIAOBO
KASSA, DEBESSAY FESEHAYE
ZHOU, RUIJIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67300034
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Group clustering using inter-group dissimilarities
</title>

<abstract>
Certain embodiments described herein are generally directed to improving performance of one or more machines within a system by clustering multidimensional datasets relating to the performance of the machines using inter-group dissimilarities between groups of the dataset. The method for improving performance of one or more machines within a system, includes forming a multidimensional dataset having a plurality of groups using performance related data associated with one or more machines in the system, clustering the plurality of groups into one or more clusters based on intergroup dissimilarities between the plurality of groups, identifying one or more anomalous clusters from among the one or more clusters, identifying the one or more anomalous groups in the one or more anomalous clusters, and adjusting a configuration of the system to improve the performance of the one or more machines corresponding to the one or more anomalous groups.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for improving performance of one or more machines within a system, the method comprising: forming a multidimensional dataset having a plurality of groups, each group of the plurality of groups corresponding to one of a plurality of machines within the system, the multidimensional dataset formed using performance related data associated with each of the plurality of machines; clustering the plurality of groups into one or more clusters based on intergroup dissimilarities between the plurality of groups, the intergroup dissimilarities determined by comparing performance related data associated with each group in the plurality of groups against performance related data associated with every other group in the plurality of groups; identifying one or more anomalous clusters from among the one or more clusters, the one or more anomalous clusters containing at least one group dissimilar to other groups in the plurality of groups; identifying the one or more anomalous groups in the one or more anomalous clusters; and adjusting a configuration of the system to improve the performance of the one or more machines corresponding to the one or more anomalous groups.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving the performance-related data from the one or more machines in the system, prior to the forming.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing each group of the plurality of groups with all other groups of the plurality of groups.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: generating, based on the comparing, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and all other groups in the plurality of groups.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing each group in the plurality of groups with each of the plurality of groups.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: generating, based on the comparing, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each dissimilarity weight in the group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and another group in the plurality of groups.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the configuration of the system comprises adjusting a configuration of the one or more machines.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the configuration of the system comprises changing a hardware configuration of or adding a hardware element to one or more machines in the system.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions to be executed in a computer system, wherein the instructions when executed in the computer system perform a method for improving performance of one or more machines within a system, the method comprising: forming a multidimensional dataset having a plurality of groups, each group of the plurality of groups corresponding to one of a plurality of machines within the system, the multidimensional dataset formed using performance related data associated with each of the plurality of machines; clustering the plurality of groups into one or more clusters based on intergroup dissimilarities between the plurality of groups, the intergroup dissimilarities determined by comparing performance related data associated with each group in the plurality of groups against performance related data associated with every other group in the plurality of groups; identifying one or more anomalous clusters from among the one or more clusters, the one or more anomalous clusters containing at least one group dissimilar to other groups in the plurality of groups; identifying the one or more anomalous groups in the one or more anomalous clusters; and adjusting a configuration of the system to improve the performance of the one or more machines corresponding to the one or more anomalous groups.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises: receiving the performance-related data from the one or more machines in the system, prior to the forming.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises: comparing each group of the plurality of groups with all other groups of the plurality of groups.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises: generating, based on the comparing, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and all other groups in the plurality of groups.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises: comparing each group in the plurality of groups with each of the plurality of groups.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: generating, based on the comparing, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each dissimilarity weight in the group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and another group in the plurality of groups.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein adjusting the configuration of the system comprises adjusting a configuration of the one or more machines.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein adjusting the configuration of the system comprises changing a hardware configuration of or adding a hardware element to one or more machines in the system.
17. A computer system comprising: a memory; and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, wherein the processor is configured to: form a multidimensional dataset having a plurality of groups, each group of the plurality of groups corresponding to one of a plurality of machines within the system, the multidimensional dataset formed using performance related data associated with each of the plurality of machines; cluster the plurality of groups into one or more clusters based on intergroup dissimilarities between the plurality of groups, the intergroup dissimilarities determined by comparing performance related data associated with each group in the plurality of groups against performance related data associated with every other group in the plurality of groups; identify one or more anomalous clusters from among the one or more clusters, the one or more anomalous clusters containing at least one group dissimilar to other groups in the plurality of groups; identify the one or more anomalous groups in the one or more anomalous clusters; and adjust a configuration of the system to improve the performance of the one or more machines corresponding to the one or more anomalous groups.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive the performance-related data from the one or more machines in the system, prior to the forming.
19. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: compare each group of the plurality of groups with all other groups of the plurality of groups.
20. The computer system of claim 19, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate, based on the comparison, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and all other groups in the plurality of groups.
21. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: compare each group in the plurality of groups with each of the plurality of groups.
22. The computer system of claim 21, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate, based on the comparison, a group of dissimilarity weights for each group of the plurality of groups prior to the clustering, each dissimilarity weight in the group of dissimilarity weights corresponding to dissimilarities between a corresponding group and another group in the plurality of groups.
23. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the processor, being configured to adjust the configuration of the system, is further configured to adjust a configuration of the one or more machines.
24. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the processor, being configured to adjust the configuration of the system, is further configured to change a hardware configuration of or add a hardware element to one or more machines in the system.
</claims>
</document>
