<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/735,G06F16/78,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SWAMINATHAN, VISWANATHAN
MITRA, SAAYAN
XU, TENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58238080
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Incorporating social-network connections information into estimated user-ratings of videos for video recommendations
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for incorporating social-network connections information into estimated user-ratings of videos for video recommendations are described. A user-rating that a user is likely to assign to a video is predicted based on first and second predictions. The first prediction is based on ratings assigned to the video by a first set of users who have rated other videos with ratings substantially similar to the user's ratings of the other videos. The second prediction is based on ratings assigned to the video by a second set of users who have established social-network connections with the user and who have rated at least one same video that the user has previously rated. Additionally, the estimated user-rating is added to additional estimated user-ratings of other videos for comparison, and top-rated videos are identified. Then, a notification is communicated via a client device of the user to recommend the top-rated videos to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for incorporating social-network connections information into an estimated user-rating of a video for video recommendations, the method comprising: identifying, by a prediction module, a first set of users, each user of the first set of users having rated at least one additional video with a rating that is similar to a rating assigned to the at least one additional video by a user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated; identifying, by the prediction module, a second set of users, each user of the second set of users having established a social network connection with the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated, having assigned a rating to the video, and not being included in the first set of users; predicting, by the prediction module, the estimated user-rating that the user is likely to assign to the video based on a combination of a first prediction generated based on ratings data for the first set of users and a second prediction generated based on ratings data for the second set of users; adding, by a recommendation module, the estimated user-rating of the video to additional estimated user-ratings of other videos that the user is likely to assign to the other videos; identifying, by the recommendation module, one or more top-rated videos based on the estimated user-rating and the additional estimated user-ratings; and communicating, by the recommendation module, a notification via a client device of the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated that recommends the one or more top-rated videos.
2. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, the second set of users including at least one user that is followed by the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated and does not follow the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated.
3. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, the second set of users including at least one user that has assigned a rating to a video that the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated has previously rated.
4. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, each user of the first set of users having previously rated the video, wherein the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated has not rated the video.
5. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: estimating a plurality of user-ratings that the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated is likely to assign to a plurality of videos not rated by the user; and recommending the one or more top-rated videos based on the plurality of user-ratings, the estimated user-rating, and the additional estimated user-ratings.
6. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining a social influence score for each user in the second set of users that represents how the user for which the social influence score is determined influences preferences of the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated and weighting the second prediction using the social influence scores.
7. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the first set of users is modeled as a user-by-video matrix, and the second set of users is modeled as a user-by-user binary matrix.
8. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the second set of users is identified without inferring trust relationships between the user for which the user-rating of the video is estimated and users in the second set of users.
9. A system for incorporating social-network connections information into estimated user-ratings of videos for video recommendations, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory having instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to implement: a modeling module configured to: construct a social model representing social-network connections between a user and a first set of users; and create a ratings model representing ratings assigned to a set of videos by a second set of users that is different from the first set of users, the ratings model sharing a common factor with the social model representing how social connections of the first set of users in a social domain of the social model correlate with the ratings assigned to the set of videos; a prediction module configured to estimate a user-rating that the user is likely to assign to a video by incorporating both the social model and the ratings model into a collective matrix factorization algorithm; and a recommendation module configured to identify top-rated videos for recommendation to the user by comparing the estimated user-rating to additional estimated user-ratings of additional videos.
10. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein incorporating both the social model and the ratings model into the collective matrix factorization algorithm includes utilizing both the social model and the ratings model for each iteration of a loss function minimization algorithm.
11. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein the social model includes a user-user matrix having columns representing the first set of users and rows representing users for whom the ratings are to be predicted.
12. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein the social model comprises a binary matrix that represents the social-network connections of the user with the first set of users.
13. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein each user in the first set of users is identified as having previously rated at least one same video that the user previously rated.
14. A system as recited in claim 9, wherein the first set of users does not include a user included in the second set of users.
15. A computer-implemented method of incorporating social-network connections information into estimated user ratings of videos for video recommendations, the method comprising: constructing, by a modeling module, a social model representing social-network connections of a user with a first set of users that have previously rated at least one same video that the user has previously rated; creating, by the modeling module, a ratings model that represents ratings assigned to a set of videos by a second set of users being different from the first set of users and having rated the set of videos with ratings that are substantially similar to additional ratings assigned to the set of videos by the user; predicting, by a prediction module, a user-rating of a new video that the user is likely to assign to the new video, the user-rating being predicted using a factorization machine by at least converting the social model and the ratings model into a feature vector that is usable in the factorization machine to capture factorized interactions between the feature vector and a feature vector of another user; and communicating, by a recommendation module, a notification for display via a client device associated with the user to recommend top-rated videos to the user based on a comparison of the predicted user-rating with additional predicted user-ratings of other videos not rated by the user.
16. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 15, wherein the feature vector includes at least a user portion, a video portion, and a normalized social portion.
17. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 15, wherein the social-network connections include at least one asymmetric social-network relationship between the user and one other user that is not a follower of the user, the asymmetric social-network relationship indicating that the user is a follower of the one other user that is not a follower of the user.
18. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 15, wherein the social model comprises a binary matrix.
19. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 15, further comprising: repeating the constructing, creating, and predicting operations to generate a plurality of predictions that represent estimated user-ratings that the user is likely to assign to a plurality of videos; and recommending the top-rated videos from the plurality of videos based on the plurality of predictions.
20. A computer-implemented method as recited in claim 15, wherein the social model is constructed without inferring a trust relationship between the user and one or more other users that are connected to one of the user's social-network connections.
</claims>
</document>
