<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/23,G06F16/24,G06F16/242,G06F16/25,G06F16/338,G06F16/34,G06F16/93,G06F17/30,G06F3/0484,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEX MACHINA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CAROTHERS, GAVIN
HARRIS, KARL
HOWARD, BRIAN C.
LEHMANN, JOHN
MALONE, TIMOTHY WADE
PILON, NICHOLAS O.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57146865
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Legal timeline analytics
</title>

<abstract>
Various of the disclosed embodiments concern systems and methods for applying legal analytics. In some embodiments, a legal analytics platform retrieves legal data from an electronic database, analyzes some or all of the legal data, and identifies interesting patterns and results of statistical analyses. In order to permit searching of the legal data, metadata elements or tags can be generated for legal entities and legal events. In some embodiments, the legal analytics platform identifies timestamps in the legal data and performs time-based statistical analysis. Results of the statistical analyses can be presented to a user via a graphical user interface (GUI), which may also allow the user to interact with the legal analytics platform and search one or more databases of legal data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing legal data and applying time-based analytics, the method comprising: accessing a source of legal information; retrieving legal data from the source of legal information, the legal data including case file documents and docket information; identifying a plurality of timestamps within the case file documents, the docket information, or both, wherein each timestamp of the plurality of timestamps represents the occurrence of a legal event; generating a first plurality of metadata elements, wherein each element corresponds to one of a plurality of legal events; tagging at least two of the plurality of timestamps with one of the first plurality of metadata elements, thereby associating each of the tagged timestamps with a particular legal event; associating a plurality of the tagged timestamps with one of the plurality of legal events; constructing a first plurality of subsets of timestamps by grouping the plurality of timestamps by legal event; providing at least one subset to an analytics engine; performing a statistical analysis of the at least one subset; and presenting, by a graphical user interface, a result of the statistical analysis.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a second plurality of metadata elements, wherein each element corresponds to one of a plurality of legal entities; tagging at least some of the plurality of timestamps with one of the second plurality of metadata elements, thereby associating each of the tagged timestamps with a particular legal entity; and constructing a second plurality of subsets of timestamps by grouping the plurality of timestamps by legal entity.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: allowing a user to specify one or more legal events, legal entities, or both that are used to specify the at least one subset on which the statistical analysis is performed.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the result includes a box plot that graphically depicts statistical variation of the at least one subset.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the box plot includes a median value mark and a box that extends from a lower quartile to an upper quartile.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the box plot includes whiskers marking a minimum value and a maximum value that are determined after excluding outliers.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the box plot includes an interactive control element that allows a user to specify an input time and causes an upper ratio and a lower ratio to be displayed, wherein the upper ratio is a percentage of the at least one subset that exceeds the input time and the lower ratio is a percentage of the at least one subset that falls below the input time.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the source of legal information is Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER).
9. A legal analytics platform comprising: a data crawler configured to access a source of legal information and retrieve legal data from the source of legal information, the legal data including case file documents and docket information; a key milestone module configured to: identify a plurality of timestamps within the case file documents, the docket information, or both, wherein each timestamp represents the occurrence of a legal event; generate a plurality of metadata elements, wherein each metadata element corresponds to one of a plurality of legal events; associate each of the plurality of timestamps with one of the plurality of metadata elements; and associate a plurality of the plurality of timestamps with one of the plurality of legal events; and a legal analytics engine configured to: construct a database that includes the legal data and is searchable by legal event; generate a graphical user interface that allows a user to interact with the legal analytics platform; construct subsets of timestamps by grouping the plurality of timestamps by legal event; perform a statistical analysis on at least one of the subsets; and present, via the graphical user interface, a result of the statistical analysis.
10. The legal analytics plat-form of claim 9, wherein the subsets of timestamps are grouped using the metadata elements associated with the each of the plurality of timestamps.
11. The legal analytics platform of claim 9, wherein the legal event is termination of a case, commencement of a trial, decision of an issue by judicial order, or commencement of a claim construction hearing.
12. The legal analytics platform of claim 10, wherein the graphical user interface is configured to: allow the user to specify at least one legal event that is used to identify the at least one subset on which the statistical analysis is performed.
13. The legal analytics platform of claim 9, wherein the result includes a box plot that graphically depicts statistical variation of the at least one subset, the box plot including a median value mark, a box that extends from a lower quartile to an upper quartile, and whiskers marking a minimum value and a maximum value that are determined after excluding outliers.
14. A method for applying legal analytics, the method comprising: accessing a source of legal information; retrieving legal data from the source of legal information; identifying a plurality of timestamps in the legal data, wherein each timestamp represents an occurrence of a legal event and a plurality of the plurality of timestamps represents the occurrence of a single legal event; associating each timestamp with one of a plurality of metadata elements, wherein the metadata elements correspond to distinct legal events; constructing a database that includes the legal data and is searchable by legal event; constructing one or more subsets of timestamps from the plurality of timestamps, the one or more subsets formed by grouping the plurality of timestamps by legal event; providing at least one subset to an analytics engine; performing a statistical analysis of the at least one subset; and displaying a result of the statistical analysis.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the legal data includes case file documents, docket information, or both.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the result includes a textual summary and a chart.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the textual summary includes a mean value, a median value, a lower quartile value, an upper quartile value, a minimum value, a maximum value, a standard deviation value, or any combination thereof.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the chart includes one or more labels that represent values included in the textual summary.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the distinct legal events include termination of a case, commencement of a trial, commencement of a claim construction hearing, or any combination thereof.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the source of legal information is Public Access to Court Electronic Records (PACER), Patent Application Information Retrieval (PAIR), or Electronic Document Information System (EDIS).
21. The method of claim 16, further comprising: generating a graphical user interface configured to: allow a user to specify search parameters with which to search the database; display the result of the statistical analysis; allow the user to modify the result by adjusting the search parameters; and allow the user to interact with the chart through the use of a control element.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the control element is an interactive slider that allows the user to modify the result by specifying an input time or a desired distribution, the desired distribution indicating what percentage of the at least one subset exceeds the input time and what percentage of the at least one subset falls below the input time.
23. A method for applying time-based legal analytics, the method comprising: accessing, via an interactive graphical user interface, a legal analytics platform configured to: access a source of legal information; retrieve legal data from the source of legal information; identify a plurality of timestamps in the legal data that represent occurrences of legal events; associating at least some of the plurality of timestamps with a first metadata element of a first plurality of metadata elements, the first plurality of metadata elements corresponding to distinct legal events, wherein a plurality of the plurality of the timestamps are associated with one of the distinct legal events; associating at least some of the plurality of timestamps with a second tag of a second plurality of metadata elements, the second plurality of metadata elements corresponding to distinct legal entities; and construct a database that includes the legal data and is searchable by legal event and legal entity; specifying search parameters that are used to search the database, the search parameters identifying one or more legal events, legal entities, or both; causing the legal analytics platform to identify a subset of timestamps from the plurality of timestamps that satisfy the search parameters; causing the legal analytics platform to apply legal analytics to the subset of timestamps; and reviewing, via the interactive graphical user interface, analytic results that include a graphical summary of the subset of timestamps.
</claims>
</document>
