<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9537,H04M1/00,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
MATTOX, JR., GREGORY THOMAS
JOHNSON, JEFFREY JAY
JAIN, RAJU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71070007
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic concierge for automating event planning and application curation
</title>

<abstract>
In non-limiting examples of the present disclosure, systems, methods and devices for assisting with event execution are provided. Data from a productivity application associated with a user may be analyzed. A significant life event associated with the user may be identified based on the analysis. A plurality of sources that each have at least one recommendation for executing a type of event corresponding to the significant event may be identified. An itinerary template for the significant life event may be generated from a plurality of the recommendations. The itinerary template may be surfaced. Additional examples of the present disclosure relate to identifying relevant applications for download to a user's device managed by an administrator device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assisting with event execution, the method comprising: analyzing data from a calendar event in an electronic calendar application associated with a user, the analyzing comprising applying a natural language processing model trained to identify significant life events to the calendar event; identifying, based on the analysis, a significant life event associated with the user; identifying a plurality of sources that each have at least one recommendation for executing a type of event corresponding to the significant life event; generating an itinerary template for the significant life event from a plurality of the recommendations, the itinerary template including content from a first one of the plurality of sources and a second one of the plurality of sources; and surfacing the itinerary template, the itinerary template including a first link selectable for navigating a web browser to the first one of the plurality of sources, and a second link selectable for navigating the web browser to the second one of the plurality of sources.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the itinerary template comprises a plurality of to-dos.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the surfaced itinerary template is selectable for adding each of the plurality of to-dos to a to-do list application.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the surfaced itinerary template is selectable for adding each of the plurality of to-dos to a calendar application.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the significant life event further comprises identifying a temporal component and a locational component for the significant life event.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the generated itinerary has temporal constraints corresponding to the temporal component of the significant life event and locational constraints corresponding to the locational component for the significant life event.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the itinerary template is generated as one of a plurality of itinerary templates generated from the plurality of recommendations; and the itinerary template is surfaced as one of a plurality itinerary templates that are surfaced.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sources is selected from: resources posted online by users within a threshold proximity to the user in a digital social graph; electronic documents; and webpages.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the significant life event is a vacation travel event.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the at least one recommendation relates to one or more of: a hotel recommendation, a restaurant recommendation, and a point of interest recommendation.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the significant life event is a party event.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the at least one recommendation relates to one or more of: a theme for the party event; a location for the party event; food for the party event; and drinks for the party event.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein in identifying the trending application in the matched user group, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a plurality of applications that are included in a most downloaded application percentage of applications in the application store by the matched user group.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein in identifying the trending application in the matched user group, the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a plurality of applications that are included in a top number value of downloaded applications in the application store by the matched user group.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more processors are further responsive to the computer-executable instructions contained in the program ode and operative to: identify a plurality of educational topics corresponding to the matched user group; identify one or more top-rated applications related to the identified plurality of educational topics; and surface a recommendation on the computing device that the user download one or more of the identified top-rated applications.
16. A computer-readable storage device comprising executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, assist with event execution, the computer-readable storage device including instructions executable by the one or more processors for: analyzing data from a calendar event in an electronic calendar application associated with a user, the analyzing comprising applying a natural language processing model trained to identify significant life events to the calendar event; identifying, based on the analysis, a significant life event associated with the user; identifying a plurality of sources that each have at least one recommendation for executing a type of event corresponding to the significant life event; generating an itinerary template for the significant life event from a plurality of the recommendations, the itinerary template including content from a first one of the plurality of sources and a second one of the plurality of sources; and surfacing the itinerary template, the itinerary template including a first link selectable for navigating a web browser to the first one of the plurality of sources, and a second link selectable for navigating the web browser to the second one of the plurality of sources.
17. The computer-readable storage device of claim 16, wherein in identifying the significant life event, the instructions are further executable by the one or more processors for: identifying a temporal component and a locational component for the significant life event.
18. The computer-readable storage device of claim 17, wherein the generated itinerary has temporal constraints corresponding to the temporal component of the significant life event and locational constraints corresponding to the locational component for the significant life event.
19. The computer-readable storage device of claim 16, wherein the itinerary template comprises a plurality of to-dos, and wherein the surfaced itinerary template is selectable for adding each of the plurality of to-dos to a to-do list application.
20. A system for assisting with application recommendations, comprising: a memory for storing executable program code; and one or more processors, functionally coupled to the memory, the one or more processors being responsive to computer-executable instructions contained in the program code and operative to: identify a plurality of characteristics associated with a user of a computing device, wherein the plurality of characteristics includes at least one of: an age of the user and a grade of educational enrollment of the user; identify a plurality of user groups associated with an application store, wherein each of the plurality of user groups is associated with at least one of: an age range, and a grade of educational enrollment; match the user to one of the plurality of user groups; identify a trending application in the matched user group; and surface a recommendation on the computing device that the user download the trending application.
</claims>
</document>
