<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
</assignee>

<inventors>
VURAL, DERVIS CAN
GHONGE, SUSHRUT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63166673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for inferring network structure from cascades
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are systems, methods, and software for providing a network structure for a network. In one example, a method includes identifying an occurrence of a cascade amongst a plurality of nodes of the network. The method also includes determining respective activation times for each node of a plurality of activated nodes activated during the cascade. The method further includes, for each pairwise combination of activated nodes from the plurality of activated nodes, computing, based on the respective activation times, a connection probability that a pair of nodes from the plurality of activated nodes is connected by an edge. The method further includes mapping a true edge between two activated nodes of the plurality of activated nodes in the network based on computed connection probabilities for the each pairwise combination.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method executed on a computing device to provide a network structure for a network, said method comprising: identifying an occurrence of a cascade amongst a plurality of nodes of the network; determining respective activation times for each node of a plurality of activated nodes activated during the cascade; for each pairwise combination of activated nodes from the plurality of activated nodes, computing, based on the respective activation times, a connection probability that a pair of nodes from the plurality of activated nodes is connected by an edge; and mapping a true edge between two activated nodes of the plurality of activated nodes in the network based on computed connection probabilities for the each pairwise combination.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising assigning to the network a forward dynamics rule by which the cascade propagates amongst the plurality of nodes of the network, wherein the computing includes computing the connection probability based on the assigned forward dynamics rule.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the assigning includes assigning the forward dynamics rule based on an activation dependence of the each node on at least one other activated node of the plurality of activated nodes.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the forward dynamics rule includes an activation probability of the each node.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the each node has at least one provider node in the network, and wherein the activation probability is a function of a fraction of a number of activated provider nodes of the each node over a total number of provider nodes of the each node.
6. The method of claim 5 further comprising selecting the function prior to the assigning.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the selecting includes selecting, for the assigning, one function from a plurality of different ones of the function.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the selecting includes selecting, for the assigning, one function from at least two different ones of the function, wherein the one function is selected to facilitate providing a greatest resultant accuracy for the provided network structure of the network.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining, for the each node having two or more pairwise combinations, a greatest computed connection probability from among a plurality of computed connection probabilities, wherein the mapping includes mapping the true edge between the two activated nodes based on the determined greatest computed connection probability.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein: the identifying includes, for a first iteration, first identifying an occurrence of a first cascade; the determining includes, for the first iteration, first determining a first set of respective activation times for the each node, said method further comprising: for at least a second iteration, second identifying an occurrence of at least a second cascade; and for the at least a second iteration, second determining at least a second set of respective activation times for each node of the plurality of nodes activated during the at a second cascade, wherein the computing includes, for each pairwise combination of activated nodes of the first and the at least a second cascades, computing the connection probability based on the first and the at least a second sets of respective activation times.
11. The method of claim 1 further comprising assigning a degree distribution to the network.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising, wherein the assigned degree distribution is determined heuristically from a simulated network, the simulated network including at least one of a surrogate network and a random network.
13. The method of claim 1 further comprising iterating, for a plurality of iterations and for a plurality of cascades, through the identifying, the determining, and the computing.
14. The method of claim 13 further comprising iterating, for the plurality of iterations and the plurality of cascades, through the mapping.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the mapping includes performing the mapping after completing the plurality of iterations.
16. The method of claim 13 wherein the iterating facilitates increasing, as compared to a provided network structure based on a first iteration of the plurality of iterations, an accuracy of the provided network structure during the mapping.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing includes assigning respective connection weight values to the each pairwise combination, the respective connection weight values equal to respective computed connection probability values for the each pairwise combination.
18. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the computing includes calculating, for the each pairwise combination: an activation probability that a first node of the pair of nodes and a second node of the pair of nodes activates at a first time and at a second time, respectively, given that the first and second nodes have the edge between them, wherein: the second time occurs after the first time; and the computing includes computing the connection probability based on the calculated activation probability.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the surrogate network is a random network.
20. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, said method further executed on the computing device to provide an actual network structure for the network, said method further comprising: generating a surrogate network; simulating the occurrence of the cascade amongst a plurality of surrogate nodes of the surrogate network; and determining, based on the simulating, an activation probability that a first node of the pair of nodes and a second node of the pair of nodes activates at a first time and at a second time, respectively, given that the first and second nodes have the edge between them, wherein: the second time occurs after the first time; and the computing includes computing the connection probability based on the determined activation probability.
21. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, wherein the computing includes calculating, for the each pairwise combination: an activation probability that a first node of the pair of nodes and a second node of the pair of nodes activates at a first time and at a second time, respectively, given that the first and second nodes do not have an edge between them, wherein: the second time occurs after the first time; and the computing includes computing the connection probability based on the calculated activation probability.
22. The method of claim 1 or claim 2, said method further executed on the computing device to provide an actual network structure for the network, said method further comprising: generating a surrogate network; simulating the occurrence of the cascade on the amongst a plurality of surrogate nodes of the surrogate network; and determining, based on the simulating, an activation probability that a first node of the pair of nodes and a second node of the pair of nodes activates at a first time and at a second time, respectively, given that the first and second nodes do not have the edge between them, wherein: the second time occurs after the first time; the computing includes computing the connection probability based on the determined activation probability.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the surrogate network is a random network.
</claims>
</document>
