<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/063
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MODHA, DHARMENDRA S.
ARTHUR, JOHN V.
MEROLLA, PAUL A.
ALVAREZ-ICAZA RIVERA, RODRIGO
CASSIDY, ANDREW S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54322286
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
GLOBALLY ASYNCHRONOUS AND LOCALLY SYNCHRONOUS (GALS) NEUROMORPHIC NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the invention relate to a globally asynchronous and locally synchronous neuromorphic network. One embodiment comprises generating a synchronization signal that is distributed to a plurality of neural core circuits. In response to the synchronization signal, in at least one core circuit, incoming spike events maintained by said at least one core circuit are processed to generate an outgoing spike event. Spike events are asynchronously communicated between the core circuits via a routing fabric comprising multiple asynchronous routers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at an asynchronous router of a neural network comprising a plurality of core circuits: receiving one or more address-event packets generated by one or more core circuits of the neural network; and routing the one or more address-event packets between the plurality of core circuits asynchronously, wherein the plurality of core circuits are configured to process spikes included in address-event packets synchronously, each of the one or more core circuits of the neural network comprises a plurality of electronic axons and a processing circuit that processes and integrates spikes delivered to the plurality of electronic axons.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each core circuit comprises a plurality of electronic neurons, and a plurality of electronic synapse devices interconnecting the plurality of electronic axons to the plurality of electronic neurons.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the asynchronous router operates at a faster speed than the plurality of core circuits.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the asynchronous router minimizes consumption of active power across the neural network as a bus link of the neural network is active only when an address-event packet is routed across the bus link.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the router is part of a routing fabric that includes other asynchronous routers that interconnect the plurality of core circuits, and the routing fabric asynchronously communicates spike events among the plurality of core circuits.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the router communicates outgoing spike events from a neuron of a core circuit to a different neuron of the neural network.
7. A system comprising a computer processor, a computer-readable hardware storage medium, and program code embodied with the computer-readable hardware storage medium for execution by the computer processor to implement a method comprising: at an asynchronous router of a neural network comprising a plurality of core circuits: receiving one or more address-event packets generated by one or more core circuits of the neural network; and routing the one or more address-event packets between the plurality of core circuits asynchronously, wherein the plurality of core circuits are configured to process spikes included in address-event packets synchronously, and each of the one or more core circuits of the neural network comprises a plurality of electronic axons and a processing circuit that processes and integrates spikes delivered to the plurality of electronic axons.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein each core circuit comprises a plurality of electronic neurons, and a plurality of electronic synapse devices interconnecting the plurality of electronic axons to the plurality of electronic neurons.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the asynchronous router operates at a faster speed than the plurality of core circuits.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the asynchronous router minimizes consumption of active power across the neural network as a bus link of the neural network is active only when an address-event packet is routed across the bus link.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the router is part of a routing fabric that includes other asynchronous routers that interconnect the plurality of core circuits, and the routing fabric asynchronously communicates spike events among the plurality of core circuits.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the router communicates outgoing spike events from a neuron of a core circuit to a different neuron of the neural network.
13. A computer program product for routing address-event packets for a plurality of core circuits, the computer program product comprising a computer-readable hardware storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: at an asynchronous router of a neural network comprising a plurality of core circuits: receive, by the processor, one or more address-event packets generated by one or more core circuits of the neural network; and rout, by the processor, the one or more address-event packets between the plurality of core circuits asynchronously, wherein the plurality of core circuits are configured to process spikes included in address-event packets synchronously, and each of the one or more core circuits of the neural network comprises a plurality of electronic axons and a processing circuit that processes and integrates spikes delivered to the plurality of electronic axons.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein each core circuit comprises a plurality of electronic neurons, and a plurality of electronic synapse devices interconnecting the plurality of electronic axons to the plurality of electronic neurons.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the asynchronous router operates at a faster speed than the plurality of core circuits.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the asynchronous router minimizes consumption of active power across the neural network as a bus link of the neural network is active only when an address-event packet is routed across the bus link.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein: the router is part of a routing fabric that includes other asynchronous routers that interconnect the plurality of core circuits; and the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the processor to: asynchronously communicate, by the routing fabric, spike events among the plurality of core circuits.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the router communicates outgoing spike events from a neuron of a core circuit to a different neuron of the neural network.
</claims>
</document>
