<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F17/30,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED, MOHAMED N.
BAUGHMAN, AARON, K.
MCCRORY, NICHOLAS A.
TOOR, ANDEEP S.
WELCKS, MICHELLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59498036
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detecting and predicting cyber-attack phases in adjacent data processing environment regions
</title>

<abstract>
A set and a second set of collections of forecasted feature vectors are selected from a repository for a future time window, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment at the present time, a collection in the set and a collection in the second set indicating an event related to the cyber-attack in a first region and a second event in a second region, respectively, of the environment at a discrete time. The events corresponding to the collections are classified, using an LTSM network, into a class of cyber-attack. From a mapping between a set of phases of the cyber-attack and a set of classes, a phase that corresponds to the class is predicted as likely to occur during the future time window in the region.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: selecting, from a repository, a set of collections of forecasted feature vectors for a future time window after a present time, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment at the present time, a collection in the set having feature vectors that are indicative of an event related to the cyber-attack in a region of the environment at a discrete time; selecting, from the repository, a second set of collections of feature vectors where the feature vectors in a collection in the second set of collections are indicative of a second event in a second region of the environment; classifying, using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network, the events corresponding to the collections in the set of collections into a class of cyber-attack; determining, from a mapping between a set of phases of the cyber-attack and a set of classes, a phase that corresponds to the class; and predicting the determined phase as likely to occur during the future time window in the region.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second event has actually occurred in the second region at a second discrete time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the second event is forecasted to occur in the second region at a second discrete time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second event occurs in the second region at the discrete time.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting, from the repository, a past set of collections of actual feature vectors for a past time window before the present time, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment during the past time window, a collection in the past set having feature vectors that are indicative of a past event related to the cyber-attack in the region of the environment a past discrete time; classifying the events corresponding to the collections in the past set into a past class of cyber-attack; determining, from the mapping, a past phase that corresponds to the past class; and outputting the determined past phase as having occurred during the past time window in the region.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the classifying into the past class occurs after the classifying into the future class.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein in the mapping, a plurality of classes in the set of classes map to a single phase in the set of phases.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the class such that the class applies to the time window beyond a threshold amount of fit.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the threshold amount of fit is a threshold value of an output of the LSTM network.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each collection in the set of collection indicates an event at a different discrete time in the future time window.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the second event alters the event.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is embodied in a computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage devices and computer-readable program instructions which are stored on the one or more computer-readable tangible storage devices and executed by one or more processors.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is embodied in a computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, one or more computer-readable storage devices and program instructions which are stored on the one or more computer-readable storage devices for execution by the one or more processors via the one or more memories and executed by the one or more processors.
14. A computer program product comprising one or more computer-readable storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to select, from a repository, a set of collections of forecasted feature vectors for a future time window after a present time, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment at the present time, a collection in the set having feature vectors that are indicative of an event related to the cyber-attack in a region of the environment at a discrete time; program instructions to select, from the repository, a second set of collections of feature vectors where the feature vectors in a collection in the second set of collections are indicative of a second event in a second region of the environment; program instructions to classify, using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network, the events corresponding to the collections in the set of collections into a class of cyber-attack; program instructions to determine, from a mapping between a set of phases of the cyber-attack and a set of classes, a phase that corresponds to the class; and program instructions to predict the determined phase as likely to occur during the future time window in the region.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the second event has actually occurred in the second region at a second discrete time.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the second event is forecasted to occur in the second region at a second discrete time.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the second event occurs in the second region at the discrete time.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, further comprising: program instructions to select, from the repository, a past set of collections of actual feature vectors for a past time window before the present time, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment during the past time window, a collection in the past set having feature vectors that are indicative of a past event related to the cyber-attack in the region of the environment a past discrete time; program instructions to classify the events corresponding to the collections in the past set into a past class of cyber-attack; program instructions to determine, from the mapping, a past phase that corresponds to the past class; and program instructions to output the determined past phase as having occurred during the past time window in the region.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program instructions to classify into the past class are configured to execute after the program instructions to classify into the future class.
20. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer-readable memories, and one or more computer-readable storage devices, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more storage devices for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more memories, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to select, from a repository, a set of collections of forecasted feature vectors for a future time window after a present time, a cyber-attack being in progress in a data processing environment at the present time, a collection in the set having feature vectors that are indicative of an event related to the cyber-attack in a region of the environment at a discrete time; program instructions to select, from the repository, a second set of collections of feature vectors where the feature vectors in a collection in the second set of collections are indicative of a second event in a second region of the environment; program instructions to classify, using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) network, the events corresponding to the collections in the set of collections into a class of cyber-attack; program instructions to determine, from a mapping between a set of phases of the cyber-attack and a set of classes, a phase that corresponds to the class; and program instructions to predict the determined phase as likely to occur during the future time window in the region.
</claims>
</document>
