<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02H1/00,H02H3/16,H04B1/66
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAKUPI, ANDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72422245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Spectral reduction on AC current and voltage in communicating circuit breakers
</title>

<abstract>
A circuit interrupt device provides a controller and method thereof that is programmed to receive a plurality of data sequences, each data sequence containing a set of data points corresponding to a waveform of line current flowing through the circuit interrupt device. The controller performs spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences using a finite series transform to reduce bandwidth requirement and transmits a spectrally reduced version of the plurality of data sequences to an external system using reduced bandwidth. The data can then be processed and converted to meta data for monitoring and tracking purposes.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A method of communicating high-resolution information from a circuit interrupt device to an external system, comprising: receiving a plurality of data sequences at a controller of the circuit interrupt device, each data sequence containing a set of data points corresponding to a waveform of line current flowing through the circuit interrupt device; performing spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences using a finite series transform at the controller; and transmitting a spectrally reduced version of the plurality of data sequences to the external system.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences comprises: performing a first transform using the finite series transform on each data sequence in the plurality of data sequences at the controller to produce a plurality of waveform vectors, each waveform vector corresponding to a respective data sequence and containing a set of first spectral coefficients, each coefficient in the set of first spectral coefficients corresponding a data point in the respective data sequence; and reducing each waveform vector in the plurality of waveform vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors, each spectrally significant waveform vector corresponding to a respective waveform vector and containing only spectrally significant first spectral coefficients from the respective waveform vector.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences further comprises: performing a second transform using the finite series transform on each spectrally significant waveform vector in the plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of packet vectors, each packet vector containing a set of second spectral coefficients, each coefficient in the set of second spectral coefficients corresponding to a spectrally significant first spectral coefficient from a different spectrally significant waveform vector in the plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors; and reducing each packet vector in the plurality of packet vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors, each spectrally significant packet vector corresponding to a respective packet vector and containing only spectrally significant second spectral coefficients from the respective packet vector.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein reducing each waveform vector in the plurality of waveform vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors comprises determining an optimal number of spectrally significant first spectral coefficients from the set of first spectral coefficients in each waveform vector.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein reducing each packet vector in the plurality of packet vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors comprises determining an optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients from the set of second spectral coefficients in a packet vector.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein determining an optimal number of spectrally significant waveform vectors at the controller comprises determining whether a spectral ratio comprising a Euclidean distance for the optimal number of spectrally significant first spectral coefficients over a Euclidean distance for the set of first spectral coefficients in each waveform vector satisfies a Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein determining an optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients comprises determining whether a spectral ratio comprising a Euclidean distance for the optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients over a Euclidean distance for the set of second spectral coefficients in each waveform vectors satisfies a Quality of Service (QoS) requirements, the spectral ratio.
8. The method of claim 3, further comprising inserting the plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors into a data packet.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the finite series transform is a Discrete Cosine Transform.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein transmitting the plurality of data sequences comprises transmitting over a wireless connection.
11. A circuit interrupt device, comprising: a controller programmed to detect a fault condition in a branch circuit connected to the circuit interrupt device; and a trip unit coupled to communicate with the controller and operable to shut off current flow through the circuit interrupt device in response to receiving a trip signal from the controller; wherein the controller is further programmed to: receive a plurality of data sequences, each data sequence containing a set of data points corresponding to a waveform of line current flowing through the circuit interrupt device; perform spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences using a finite series transform; and transmit a spectrally reduced version of the plurality of data sequences to an external system.
12. The circuit interrupt device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further programmed to: perform a first transform using the finite series transform on each data sequence in the plurality of data sequences at the controller to produce a plurality of waveform vectors, each waveform vector corresponding to a respective data sequence and containing a set of first spectral coefficients, each coefficient in the set of first spectral coefficients corresponding a data point in the respective data sequence; and reduce each waveform vector in the plurality of waveform vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors, each spectrally significant waveform vector corresponding to a respective waveform vector and containing only spectrally significant first spectral coefficients from the respective waveform vector.
13. The circuit interrupt device of claim 12, wherein the controller is further programmed to: perform a second transform using the finite series transform on each spectrally significant waveform vector in the plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of packet vectors, each packet vector containing a set of second spectral coefficients, each coefficient in the set of second spectral coefficients corresponding to a spectrally significant first spectral coefficient from a different spectrally significant waveform vector in the plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors; and reduce each packet vector in the plurality of packet vectors at the controller to produce a plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors, each spectrally significant packet vector corresponding to a respective packet vector and containing only spectrally significant second spectral coefficients from the respective packet vector.
14. The circuit interrupt device of claim 12, wherein the controller is further programmed to reduce each waveform vector in the plurality of waveform vectors to produce a plurality of spectrally significant waveform vectors by determining an optimal number of spectrally significant first spectral coefficients from the set of first spectral coefficients in each waveform vector.
15. The circuit interrupt device of claim 13, wherein the controller is further programmed to reduce each packet vector in the plurality of packet vectors to produce a plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors by determining an optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients from the set of second spectral coefficients in a packet vector.
16. The circuit interrupt device of claim 14, wherein the controller is further programmed to determine an optimal number of spectrally significant waveform vectors by determining whether a spectral ratio comprising a Euclidean distance for the optimal number of spectrally significant first spectral coefficients over a Euclidean distance for the set of first spectral coefficients in each waveform vector satisfies a Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.
17. The circuit interrupt device of claim 15, wherein the controller is further programmed to determine an optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients by determining whether a spectral ratio comprising a Euclidean distance for the optimal number of spectrally significant second spectral coefficients over a Euclidean distance for the set of second spectral coefficients in each waveform vector satisfies a Quality of Service (QoS) requirements.
18. The circuit interrupt device of claim 13, wherein the controller is further programmed to insert the plurality of spectrally significant packet vectors in a data packet.
19. The circuit interrupt device of claim 11, wherein the finite series transform is a Discrete Cosine Transform.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium containing program logic that, when executed by operation of one or more computer processors, performs an operation comprising: receiving a plurality of data sequences at a controller of a circuit interrupt device, each data sequence containing a set of data points corresponding to a waveform of line current flowing through the circuit interrupt device; performing spectral reduction on the plurality of data sequences using a finite series transform at the controller; and transmitting a spectrally reduced version of the plurality of data sequences to an external system.
</claims>
</document>
