<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, STEPHEN
KARASARIDIS, ANESTIS
NOEL ERIC
VELARDO, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71073171
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-tiered server architecture to mitigate malicious traffic
</title>

<abstract>
A processing system having at least one processor may obtain domain name system (DNS) traffic records of a DNS platform, the DNS traffic records associated with a source device having a first status and that is submitting DNS queries, where a first-tier DNS authoritative server of the DNS platform is configured to forward the DNS queries from the source device to at least a first second-tier DNS authoritative server of the DNS platform designated for the first status. The processing system may further detect anomalous DNS traffic records from the DNS traffic records, identify a change of the source device from a first status to a second status, based upon the detecting the anomalous DNS traffic records, and reconfigure the first-tier DNS authoritative server to redirect the DNS queries from the source device to at least a second second-tier DNS authoritative server designated for the second status.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system including at least one processor, a first plurality of domain name system traffic records of a domain name system platform, the first plurality of domain name system traffic records associated with a source device that is submitting domain name system queries, the source device having a first status, wherein a first-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform is configured to forward the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a first second-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform designated for the first status; detecting, by the processing system, anomalous domain name system traffic records from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records; identifying, by the processing system, a change of the source device from the first status to a second status, based upon the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records; and reconfiguring, by the processing system, the first-tier domain name system authoritative server to redirect the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a second second-tier domain name system authoritative server designated for the second status, in response to identifying the change of the source device from the first status to the second status.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first status is one of at least two statuses, and wherein the second status comprises a different one of the at least two statuses.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least the first second-tier domain name system authoritative server and the at least the second second-tier domain name system authoritative server comprise different resource allocations with different processing capabilities.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least the first second-tier domain name system authoritative server and the at least the second second-tier domain name system authoritative server have different: numbers of processors; quantities of memory; rates of responding to domain name system queries; or abilities to apply scrubber criteria to domain name system queries.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the change of the source device from the first status to the second status is identified when more than a threshold number of anomalous domain name system traffic records is detected from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the source device comprises: a domain name system resolver; or a client of the domain name system resolver.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records comprises: generating an input aggregate vector from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records, wherein the input aggregate vector comprises a plurality of features derived from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records; applying an encoder-decoder neural network to the input aggregate vector to generate a reconstructed vector, wherein the encoder-decoder neural network is trained with a plurality of aggregate vectors generated from a second plurality of domain name system traffic records; calculating a distance between the input aggregate vector and the reconstructed vector; and detecting that the first plurality of domain name system traffic records comprises the anomalous domain name system traffic records when the distance is greater than a threshold.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: obtaining the second plurality of domain name system traffic records; generating the plurality of aggregate vectors from the second plurality of domain name system traffic records, wherein each of the plurality of aggregate vectors comprises a plurality of features derived from the second plurality of domain name system traffic records; and training the encoder-decoder neural network with the plurality of aggregate vectors.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first plurality of domain name system traffic records and the second plurality of domain name system traffic records are associated with domain name system queries from at least one domain name system resolver to at least one domain name system authoritative server.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein each of the input aggregate vector and the plurality of aggregate vectors comprises aggregate information associated with domain name system traffic for one of the at least one domain name system resolver over a designated time period.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the aggregate information comprises, for the one of the at least one domain name system resolver and for the designated time period, at least one of: a number of queries received; a number of queries sent; a number of domain name system authoritative servers contacted; an average time-to-live value for the queries received; an average domain name length in the queries received; a number of unique top level domains included in the queries received; or a number of unique second level domains included in the queries received.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the aggregate information comprises, for the one of the at least one domain name system resolver and for the designated time period, at least one of: a number of domain name system resolvers contacting a domain name system authoritative server that is most contacted by the one of the at least one domain name system resolver; or a number of queries received by the domain name system authoritative server that is most contacted by the one of the at least one domain name system resolver.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the encoder-decoder neural network is to encode the input aggregate vector as a compressed vector representation and to decode the compressed vector representation as the reconstructed vector.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records further comprises: identifying a plurality of clusters from a plurality of compressed vector representations associated with each of a plurality of input aggregate vectors, the plurality of input aggregate vectors including the input aggregate vector.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the plurality of clusters is identified in a feature space having a plurality of dimensions in accordance with the plurality of compressed vector representations.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records further comprises: obtaining a first label for a first cluster of the plurality of clusters, the first label associated with a first domain name system traffic anomaly type; and detecting that the input aggregate vector is associated with the first cluster.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the anomalous domain name system traffic records are detected from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records when it is detected that the input aggregate vector is associated with the first cluster.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the change of the source device from the first status to the second status is identified when more than a threshold number of input aggregate vectors generated from domain name system traffic records associated with the source device are detected to be associated with the first cluster.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processing system including at least one processor, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first plurality of domain name system traffic records of a domain name system platform, the first plurality of domain name system traffic records associated with a source device that is submitting domain name system queries, the source device having a first status, wherein a first-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform is configured to forward the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a first second-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform designated for the first status; detecting anomalous domain name system traffic records from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records; identifying a change of the source device from the first status to a second status, based upon the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records; and reconfiguring the first-tier domain name system authoritative server to redirect the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a second second-tier domain name system authoritative server designated for the second status, in response to identifying the change of the source device from the first status to the second status.
20. A device comprising: a processing system including at least one processor; and a computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by the processing system, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first plurality of domain name system traffic records of a domain name system platform, the first plurality of domain name system traffic records associated with a source device that is submitting domain name system queries, the source device having a first status, wherein a first-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform is configured to forward the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a first second-tier domain name system authoritative server of the domain name system platform designated for the first status; detecting anomalous domain name system traffic records from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records; identifying a change of the source device from the first status to a second status, based upon the detecting the anomalous domain name system traffic records; and reconfiguring the first-tier domain name system authoritative server to redirect the domain name system queries from the source device to at least a second second-tier domain name system authoritative server designated for the second status, in response to identifying the change of the source device from the first status to the second status.
</claims>
</document>
