<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q20/04,G06Q20/20,G06Q20/36,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUTT, RAJSADAY
MONAWER, Sharifa
Rahman, Faheem
Roy, Suvayan
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72661722
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods of pending transaction augmentation and automatic attachment to settled transactions
</title>

<abstract>
A method including: receiving an indication of a transaction authorization of a pending transaction, the transaction authorization being requested using a financial account associated with a user; outputting for transmission, to a user device associated with the user, a request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction; receiving, from the user device, receipt image data corresponding to a receipt related the pending transaction; storing data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the pending transaction; determining, based on analyzing a plurality of posted transactions of the financial account, a first posted transaction corresponding to the pending transaction; and storing the data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving an indication of a transaction authorization of a temporary pending transaction of a financial account associated with a user, the transaction authorization being requested using the financial account; outputting for transmission, to a user device associated with the user, a request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction; receiving, from the user device, receipt image data corresponding to a receipt related the pending transaction; storing data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the pending transaction; determining, based on analyzing a plurality of subsequently posted transactions of the financial account and the pending transaction, a first posted transaction that corresponds to the pending transaction, the first transaction not being posted based on the pending transaction; and in response to the determining, storing the data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, with the receipt image data, transaction classification information; storing the transaction classification information in correspondence with the pending transaction; and storing the transaction classification information in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: analyzing the receipt image data using optical character recognition; and extracting receipt information from the analyzed receipt image data as the data indicative of the receipt image, wherein the receipt information comprises at least one from among a purchase date, a purchase time, a purchase amount, a vendor name, one or more line items, and a purchase location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the pending transaction has a first transaction value, and the first posted transaction has a second, different transaction value.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the first posted transaction comprises: analyzing the receipt image data to identify one or more post-authorization line-items, adjusting the first transaction value in accordance with the identified one or more post-authorization line items, and determining the first posted transaction based at least in part on the adjusted first transaction value.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction is configured to trigger a persistent request for the receipt image data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction is configured to extract the receipt image data from an email application operating on the user device.
8. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory having stored thereon computer program instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, instruct the at least one processor to: receive an indication of a transaction authorization of a temporary pending transaction of a financial account associated with a user, the transaction authorization being requested using the financial account; output for transmission, to a user device associated with the user, a request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction; receive, from the user device, receipt image data corresponding to a receipt related the pending transaction; store data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the pending transaction; determine, based on analyzing a plurality of subsequently posted transactions of the financial account and the pending transaction, a first posted transaction that corresponds to the pending transaction, the first posted transaction not being posted based on the pending transaction; and in response to the determining, store the data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the computer program instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further instruct the at least one processor to: receive, with the receipt image data, transaction classification information; store the transaction classification information in correspondence with the pending transaction; and store the transaction classification information in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the computer program instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further instruct the at least one processor to: analyze the receipt image data using optical character recognition; and extract receipt information from the analyzed receipt image data as the data indicative of the receipt image, wherein the receipt information comprises at least one from among a purchase date, a purchase time, a purchase amount, a vendor name, one or more line items, and a purchase location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the pending transaction has a first transaction value, and the first posted transaction has a second, different transaction value.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the first posted transaction comprises: analyzing the receipt image data to identify one or more post-authorization line-items, adjusting the first transaction value in accordance with the identified one or more post-authorization line items, and determining the first posted transaction based at least in part on the adjusted first transaction value.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction is configured to trigger a persistent request for the receipt image data.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction is configured to extract the receipt image data from an email application operating on the user device.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon computer program code that, when executed by a processor, instructs the processor to perform a method comprising: receiving an indication of a transaction authorization of a temporary pending transaction of a financial account associated with a user, the transaction authorization being requested using the financial account; outputting for transmission, to a user device associated with the user, a request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction; receiving, from the user device, receipt image data corresponding to a receipt related the pending transaction; storing data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the pending transaction; determining, based on analyzing a plurality of subsequently posted transactions of the financial account and the pending transaction, a first posted transaction that corresponds to the pending transaction, the first posted transaction not being posted based on the pending transaction; and in response to the determining, storing the data indicative of the receipt in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, with the receipt image data, transaction classification information; storing the transaction classification information in correspondence with the pending transaction; and storing the transaction classification information in correspondence with the first posted transaction.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: analyzing the receipt image data using optical character recognition; and extracting receipt information from the analyzed receipt image data as the data indicative of the receipt image, wherein the receipt information comprises at least one from among a purchase date, a purchase time, a purchase amount, a vendor name, one or more line items, and a purchase location.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the pending transaction has a first transaction value, and the first posted transaction has a second, different transaction value.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein determining the first posted transaction comprises: analyzing the receipt image data to identify one or more post-authorization line-items, adjusting the first transaction value in accordance with the identified one or more post-authorization line items, and determining the first posted transaction based at least in part on the adjusted first transaction value.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the request for purchase information corresponding to the pending transaction is configured to trigger a persistent request for the receipt image data.
</claims>
</document>
