<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W16/26,H04W24/04,H04W28/16,H04W40/04,H04W8/22,H04W84/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
MAJMUNDAR, MILAP V.
CUI, ZHI
YE, WEIHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57516127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitation of network resource routing and resource optimization
</title>

<abstract>
A more efficient network can be achieved using a network-based controller to configure routing tables to route data traffic to and from transmission points. Dynamic partitioning of network resources between the transmission points and a backhaul can be performed in conjunction with a resource scheduler of a network-based controller. The scheduler can relay scheduling metrics or benefit metrics from the network-based controller to the transmission points. Backhaul route optimization can also be used to select relay transmission points based upon conditions being determined to be satisfied.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A route optimization method, comprising: receiving, by a network device comprising a processor, relay transmission point data related to a network condition associated with a first relay transmission point device; receiving, by the network device, mobile device data related to a mobile device; updating, by the network device, the relay transmission point data and the mobile device data resulting in updated data; based on the updated data and in response to a first policy data condition being determined to have been satisfied, updating, by the network device, a data structure associated with network devices of a network, wherein the first policy data condition is associated with a first access load of the first relay transmission point device and a rating associated with a channel, to be used by the first relay transmission point device, that has been determined to have been satisfied; in response to a second policy data condition associated with a second access load of a second relay transmission point device being determined to have been satisfied, excluding the second relay transmission point device from a route optimization procedure; in response to an indication that the first relay transmission point device is a currently dormant transmission point device, enabling, by the network device, the first relay transmission point device to generate a routing path; and sending, by the network device, network resource partitioning data to the first relay transmission point device for use in partitioning a network resource of the network device, wherein the network resource partitioning data comprises restriction data representative of an instruction to restrict a transmission by the first relay transmission point device to the transmission of text data to the network device.
2. The route optimization method of claim 1, wherein the updated data comprises policy data associated with a service provider identity.
3. The route optimization method of claim 2, wherein the network condition is associated with a bandwidth of the first relay transmission point device.
4. The route optimization method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the updating the data structure, selecting, by the network device, the first relay transmission point device.
5. The route optimization method of claim 4, wherein the selecting comprises selecting a backhaul route based on a distance between the mobile device and the first relay transmission point device.
6. The route optimization method of claim 4, wherein the selecting comprises selecting a backhaul route based on a mobile device identity.
7. The route optimization method of claim 4, wherein the selecting comprises selecting a backhaul route based on an identity of the first relay transmission point device.
8. A route optimization system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving relay transmission point data related to a network condition associated with relay transmission point devices; receiving device data related to a mobile device; updating the relay transmission point data and the device data resulting in updated data; based on the updated data and in response to a first policy data condition being determined to have been satisfied, updating a network data structure, associated with network devices of a wireless network, with the updated data, wherein the first policy data condition is associated with an access load of a first relay transmission point device of the relay transmission point devices, and wherein the first policy data condition is associated with a rating of a channel being determined to have been satisfied; in response to a second policy data condition being determined to have been satisfied, precluding a second relay transmission point device of the relay transmission point devices from participating in a route optimization procedure; in response to an indication that the first relay transmission point device is a dormant transmission point device, enabling the first relay transmission point device to generate a routing path associated with the first relay transmission point device; and based on the routing path, sending network resource partitioning data to the first relay transmission point device for use in partitioning a network resource of a network device of the network devices, wherein the network resource partitioning data comprises restriction data representative of a way to restrict transmissions of the first relay transmission point device to text transmissions of text data to the network device.
9. The route optimization system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting the first relay transmission point device in response to a determination that a failure condition has been satisfied.
10. The route optimization system of claim 8, wherein the first relay transmission point data comprises bandwidth data related to the relay transmission point devices.
11. The route optimization system of claim 8, wherein the network condition is related to a backhaul link load associated with the network devices.
12. The route optimization system of claim 11, wherein the network resource comprises a radio resource associated with the transmission point devices.
13. The route optimization system of claim 11, wherein the network resource comprises an output power associated with the transmission point devices.
14. The route optimization system of claim 9, wherein the selecting the first relay transmission point device is based on traffic pattern data associated with the mobile device and the relay transmission point devices.
15. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of route optimization operations, comprising: receiving relay transmission point data related to a network condition associated with a first relay transmission point device of relay transmission point devices; receiving mobile device data related to a mobile device; updating the relay transmission point data and the mobile device data, resulting in updated data; and based on the updated data and in response to a first policy data condition being determined to have been satisfied, updating a data structure associated with a network device, wherein the policy data condition is associated with a first access load of the first relay transmission point device, and wherein the policy data condition is associated with a rating of a channel to be used by the first relay transmission point device; in response to an indication that the first relay transmission point device has been determined to have been a dormant transmission point device, enabling the first relay transmission point device to generate routing path data representative of a routing path associated with the first relay transmission point device; using the routing path data, sending network resource partitioning data related to a backhaul partition to the first relay transmission point device for use in partitioning a network resource of the network device, wherein the network resource partitioning data comprises an instruction to restrict the first relay transmission point device to transmitting text data to the network device; and based on a threshold value associated with a second access load of a second relay transmission point device being determined to have been satisfied, restricting the second relay transmission point device from receiving the network resource partitioning data for use in partitioning the network resource.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the indication is a first indication, and wherein the route optimization operations further comprise: receiving a second indication that the first relay transmission point device has accepted the instruction.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the route optimization operations further comprise: receiving resource availability data related to a resource associated with the first relay transmission point device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the resource availability data comprises backhaul link load data associated with the first relay transmission point device.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the resource availability data comprises bandwidth data associated with the relay transmission point devices.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the routing path data is first routing path data, and wherein the route optimization operations further comprise: selecting a third relay transmission point device, of the relay transmission point devices, to generate second routing path data representing a transmission routing path comprising at least the first relay transmission point device and the third transmission point device.
</claims>
</document>
