<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OLSON, MARC STEPHEN
THOMPSON, JAMES MICHAEL
SHARMA, VAIBHAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69778903
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Using cluster processing to identify sets of similarly failing hosts
</title>

<abstract>
Data, attributes, and metrics from unavailable resource hosts may be collected and used for cluster analysis in order to correlate the different hosts and group similar hosts into clusters. The clusters may be ranked based on the collected information and used to provide a simple way to identify shared failure modes among the unavailable hosts. By identifying the hosts of each cluster, shared failures can be corrected for large groups of hosts at the same time, enabling the hosts to return to operational states.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining information identifying a plurality of resource hosts in abnormal operation; obtaining a data set for the plurality of resource hosts in abnormal operation, the data set comprising, for each resource host of the plurality of resource hosts in abnormal operation, values for a set of attributes associated with the resource host; performing a clustering algorithm, using the obtained data set, to identify a set of clusters of resource hosts; generating a ranking of clusters in the identified set of clusters of resource hosts, the ranking generated based on an estimate of an amount of computer processing to be performed on each cluster of the set of clusters; selecting a cluster based at least in part on the generated ranking; and providing information identifying resource hosts in the selected cluster.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting the ranking based on a cause of the abnormal operation associated with the each cluster of the set of clusters.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the data set for the plurality of resource hosts in abnormal operation comprises collecting the values for the set of attributes of the resource host from a report including resource host property data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: maintaining an association of resource hosts in abnormal operation to the report; and in response to a new report, updating the association.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the ranking of the clusters in the identified set of clusters of resource hosts further comprises adjusting the ranking of the clusters based on a cost associated with one or more actions to rehabilitate the plurality of resource hosts in abnormal operation.
6. A system, comprising at least one computing device configured to implement one or more services, wherein the one or more services are configured to: obtain a data set for a plurality of resource hosts identified as being in abnormal operation, the data set, for each resource host of the plurality of resource hosts, comprising at least one value for at least one attribute of the resource host; perform a clustering algorithm, using the data set, to group at least a subset of the plurality of resource hosts among a set of clusters; rank each cluster of the set of clusters of the plurality of resource hosts based at least in part on a type of storage volume associated with the each cluster; select a cluster based at least in part on an associated rank of the cluster; and provide information identifying resource hosts in the selected cluster.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one value for the at least one attribute of the resource host includes a set of categorical values, ordinal values and/or numeric values, the values being generated based at least in part on resource host property data.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more services are further configured to determine one or more clustering algorithms usable to identify the set of clusters wherein the determination is based, at least in part, on types of attributes in the obtained data set.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the set of clusters specifies resource hosts in abnormal operation and each cluster of the set of clusters specifies resource hosts associated with a same type of abnormal operation.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more services are further configured to provide a suggestion to recover the resource hosts in abnormal operation, based at least in part on a subset of the set of clusters.
11. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more services are further configured to: associate one or more regions in a space of at least one cluster of the set of clusters; determine a centroid of the at least one cluster; match the centroid to the one or more regions; and determine a suggestion associated with recovery of the resource hosts in abnormal operation for the at least one cluster based at least in part on the centroid.
12. The system of claim 6, wherein the at least one value for the at least one attribute of the resource host includes system property report data, a number of read or write requests, a time/date of a last hardware replacement, a manufacturer, a manufacturer of a network card, a software version running on a host, a physical location of the at least a subset of the plurality of resource hosts among a set of clusters, environmental conditions in a location of the at least a subset of the plurality of resource hosts among a set of clusters, a hardware batch identifier, a date the at least a subset of the plurality of resource hosts among a set of clusters were received from a third-party, a number of self-monitoring, analysis, and reporting technology errors, and/or a device type of the at least a subset of the plurality of resource hosts among a set of clusters.
13. The system of claim 6, wherein the one or more clustering algorithms include a K-means clustering algorithm, an expectation-maximization clustering algorithm, a Biclustering algorithm, or a hierarchical clustering algorithm.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing thereon executable instructions that, as a result of being executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to at least: obtain, for a plurality of nodes identified as being in abnormal operation, attribute types and values of the attribute types; use the values of the attribute types as input to a clustering algorithm to identify a set of clusters of nodes from the plurality of nodes, wherein at least one cluster of the set of clusters of nodes is associated with a possible cause of abnormal operation; generate a ranking of clusters of the set of clusters of nodes based at least in part on a number of nodes associated with each cluster of nodes and a customer entity associated with the each cluster of nodes; select a cluster based at least in part on an associated rank of the cluster; and provide information identifying nodes of the selected cluster.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to perform cluster processing using K-means clustering, expectation-maximization clustering, hierarchical clustering, or Biclustering.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to store, in one or more data storage services, information identifying one or more nodes corresponding to a subset of the at least one cluster.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to store the information identifying the one or more nodes further include instructions that cause the computer system to prioritize a first subset of the at least one cluster over at least a second subset of the at least one cluster.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to generate the ranking of the clusters further include instructions that cause the computer system to optimize the clustering algorithm based at least in part on a machine learning algorithm including optimizing selection of attributes.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further comprise instructions that, as a result of being executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to determine, for the identified nodes, one or more remedies for the possible causes of the nodes in abnormal operation.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein a node in abnormal operation includes an offline node, a failed node, an unavailable node, a non-responsive node, and/or a disconnected node.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the information identifying the nodes of the selected cluster includes a suggestion to recover the nodes.
</claims>
</document>
