<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F17/30,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACTIANCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ONUSKO, JOHN
RAMANUJAM, GOPALAKRISHNAN
RUDOLPH, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62022723
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques for supervising communications from multiple communication modalities
</title>

<abstract>
Provided herein are methods, systems, and computer-program products for providing a supervision system for review of one or more communications associated with an enterprise. The supervision system may be configured to identify the one or more communications from communications associated with the enterprise. A communication may be identified for review according to one or more policies. A policy may indicate criteria that are defined by an enterprise that indicate a communication that should be reviewed. After the communication is identified for review, the communication may be analyzed using one or more filters. A filter may indicate when a communication should not be reviewed, even when the communication is identified for review based on a policy. After a communication is both identified by a policy and not filtered by a filter, the communication may be added to a queue. A queue may be used to organize communications to be reviewed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a first system, one or more communications sent between at least a first computing device and a second computing device using a communication modality, the one or more communications determined to be a single interaction, the first system configured to receive communications from multiple communication modalities; generating, by the first system, a communication object for the interaction, wherein a structure of the communication object is consistent across different communication modalities; storing, by the first system, the communication object at a location in a database; identifying, by a second system, a policy defining which communication objects to review; determining, by the second system, whether to review the communication object based upon the policy; in response to determining to review the communication object, adding, by the second system, a reference for the communication object to a queue; and outputting, by the second system to a reviewing device, a representation of the interaction by: retrieving the communication object from the location using the reference for the communication object in the queue, reconstructing portions of the one or more communications from the interaction in a viewable form using information from the communication object, and displaying, in the viewable form on the reviewing device, one or more other communications that are associated with the interaction.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the viewable form is a native form or a human-readable form for the communication modality.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the policy includes search criteria, wherein a first search criterion of the search criteria applies to a first section of a particular communication, and wherein a second search criterion of the search criteria applies to a second section of the particular communication.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein adding the reference for the communication object to the queue includes adding a pointer associated with the communication object to the queue, and wherein the pointer is indicative of the location in the database.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the second system, a request to review a next interaction from the queue, the request from the reviewing device, wherein the representation is output to the reviewing device in response to the request.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, by the second system, a request for a web page associated with the second system, the request from the reviewing device; identifying one or more queues associated with the reviewing device, the one or more queues including the queue; and sending a web page to the reviewing device, the web page presenting indications of the one or more queues, wherein the request to review the next interaction is sent in response to a selection of an indication of the queue on the web page by the reviewing device.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more communications include a first communication and a second communication, wherein the first communication is sent from a first user to a second user, wherein the second communication is sent from the second user to the first user in response to the first communication, and wherein the interaction includes the first communication and the second communication.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing a plurality of instructions executable by one or more processors, the plurality of instructions when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive one or more communications sent between at least a first computing device and a second computing device using a communication modality, the one or more communications determined to be a single interaction; generate a communication object for the interaction, wherein a structure of the communication object is consistent across different communication modalities; store the communication object at a location in a database; identify a policy defining which communication objects to review; determine whether to review the communication object based upon the policy; in response to determining to review the communication object, add a reference for the communication object to a queue; and output, to a reviewing device, a representation of the interaction by: retrieving the communication object from the location using the reference for the communication object in the queue, reconstructing portions of the one or more communications from the interaction in a viewable form using information from the communication object, and displaying, via the viewable form and on the reviewing device, one or more other communications that are associated with the interaction.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the viewable form is a native form or a human-readable form for the communication modality.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the policy includes search criteria, wherein a first search criterion of the search criteria applies to a first section of a particular communication, and wherein a second search criterion of the search criteria applies to a second section of the particular communication.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein adding the reference for the communication object to the queue includes adding a pointer associated with the communication object to the queue, and wherein the pointer is indicative of the location in the database.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the plurality of instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to: receive a request to review a next interaction from the queue, the request from the reviewing device, wherein the representation is output to the reviewing device in response to the request.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the plurality of instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to: receive a request for a web page, the request from the reviewing device; identify one or more queues associated with the reviewing device, the one or more queues including the queue; and send a web page to the reviewing device, the web page presenting indications of the one or more queues, wherein the request to review the next interaction is sent in response to a selection of an indication of the queue on the web page by the reviewing device.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the one or more communications include a first communication and a second communication, wherein the first communication is sent from a first user to a second user, wherein the second communication is sent from the second user to the first user in response to the first communication, and wherein the interaction includes the first communication and the second communication.
15. A system comprising: a first system including: one or more first processors; and a first non-transitory computer-readable medium including first instructions that, when executed by the first one or more processors, cause the first one or more processors to: receive one or more communications sent between at least a first computing device and a second computing device using a communication modality, the one or more communications determined to be a single interaction; generate a communication object for the interaction, wherein a structure of the communication object is consistent across different communication modalities; and store the communication object at a location in a database; and a second system including: one or more second processors; and a second non-transitory computer-readable medium including second instructions that, when executed by the second one or more processors, cause the one or more second processors to: identify a policy defining which communication objects to review; determine whether to review the communication object based upon the policy; in response to determining to review the communication object, add a reference for the communication object to a queue; and output, to a reviewing device, a representation of the interaction by: retrieving the communication object from the location using the reference for the communication object in the queue, reconstructing portions of the one or more communications from the interaction in a viewable form using information from the communication object, and displaying one or more other communications that are associated with the interaction on the reviewing device.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the viewable form is a native form or a human-readable form for the communication modality.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the policy includes search criteria, wherein a first search criterion of the search criteria applies to a first section of a particular communication, and wherein a second search criterion of the search criteria applies to a second section of the particular communication.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein adding the reference for the communication object to the queue includes adding a pointer associated with the communication object to the queue, and wherein the pointer is indicative of the location in the database.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the second instructions, when executed by the second one or more processors, further cause the one or more second processors to: receive a request to review a next interaction from the queue, the request from the reviewing device, wherein the representation is output to the reviewing device in response to the request.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the second instructions, when executed by the second one or more processors, further cause the one or more second processors to: receive a request for a web page, the request from the reviewing device; identify one or more queues associated with the reviewing device, the one or more queues including the queue; and send a web page to the reviewing device, the web page presenting indications of the one or more queues, wherein the request to review the next interaction is sent in response to a selection of an indication of the queue on the web page by the reviewing device.
</claims>
</document>
