<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SU ZHONG
ZHAO, SHIWAN
WANG ZHIHU
SUN, CHANGHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70325060
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Trajectory modeling for contextual recommendation
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, computer program product, and computer processing system are provided for computing a trajectory-based Point of Interest recommendation. The method includes generating, by a processor device, a set of embeddings. Each of the embeddings in the set relates to a respective different trajectory contextual element of a user trajectory. The method further includes computing, by the processor device based on the set of embeddings, an activity representation that includes a set of POI candidate embeddings. The method also includes composing, by the processor device, a stop embedding based on the activity representation and the embeddings in the set and corresponding to a given stop in the user trajectory. The method additionally includes computing, by the processor device, the trajectory-based POI recommendation using an attention-based, user-specific, multi-stop trajectory, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model applied to the stop embedding.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for computing a trajectory-based Point of Interest recommendation, the method comprising: generating, by a processor device, a set of embeddings, each of the embeddings in the set relating to a respective different trajectory contextual element of a user trajectory; computing, by the processor device based on the set of embeddings, an activity representation that includes a set of POI candidate embeddings; composing, by the processor device, a stop embedding based on the activity representation and the embeddings in the set and corresponding to a contextual element relating to one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents a given stop in the user trajectory; computing, by the processor device, the trajectory-based POI recommendation using an attention-based, user-specific, multi-stop trajectory, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model applied to the stop embedding to adjust weights of the contextual element relating to the one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents the given stop in the user trajectory; and audibly and visually providing directions to the user of a POI specified by the trajectory-based POI recommendation.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said generating step comprises randomly initializing the embeddings in the set.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of embeddings include a time embedding, a weather embedding, a static user embedding, and an item embedding.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the activity representation is computed by leveraging an attention mechanism against a set of POI candidate embeddings to obtain an attention weighted average of the POI candidate embeddings as the activity representation.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the attention mechanism is configured to infer a possibility of each of the POI candidate embeddings being involved in the given stop.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of POI candidate embeddings for the given stop are predetermined from historical user data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the embeddings is provided to a respective different one of a plurality of hidden layers of the RNN model for activation function processing.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the stop embedding comprises an activity representation for the given stop that, in turn, comprise POI candidate embeddings.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising automatically placing a user vehicle into an autonomous driving mode that autonomously drives the vehicle to a POI specified by the trajectory-based POI recommendation.
10. A computer program product for computing a trajectory-based Point of Interest recommendation, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to perform a method comprising: generating, by a processor device, a set of embeddings, each of the embeddings in the set relating to a respective different trajectory contextual element of a user trajectory; computing, by the processor device based on the set of embeddings, an activity representation that includes a set of POI candidate embeddings; composing, by the processor device, a stop embedding based on the activity representation and the embeddings in the set and corresponding to a contextual element relating to one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents a given stop in the user trajectory; computing, by the processor device, the trajectory-based POI recommendation using an attention-based, user-specific, multi-stop trajectory, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model applied to the stop embedding to adjust weights of the contextual element relating to the one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents the given stop in the user trajectory; and audibly and visually providing directions to the user of a POI specified by the trajectory-based POI recommendation.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein said generating step comprises randomly initializing the embeddings in the set.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the set of embeddings include a time embedding, a weather embedding, a static user embedding, and an item embedding.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the activity representation is computed by leveraging an attention mechanism against a set of POI candidate embeddings to obtain an attention weighted average of the POI candidate embeddings as the activity representation.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the attention mechanism is configured to infer a possibility of each of the POI candidate embeddings being involved in the given stop.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the set of POI candidate embeddings for the given stop are predetermined from historical user data.
16. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein each of the embeddings is provided to a respective different one of a plurality of hidden layers of the RNN model for activation function processing.
17. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the stop embedding comprises an activity representation for the given stop that, in turn, comprise POI candidate embeddings.
18. A computer processing system for computing a trajectory-based Point of Interest recommendation, the computer processing system comprising: a memory for storing program code; and a processor device for running the program code to generate a set of embeddings, each of the embeddings in the set relating to a respective different trajectory contextual element of a user trajectory; compute, based on the set of embeddings, an activity representation that includes a set of POI candidate embeddings; compose a stop embedding based on the activity representation and the embeddings in the set and corresponding to a contextual element relating to one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents a given stop in the user trajectory; compute the trajectory-based POI recommendation using an attention-based, user-specific, multi-stop trajectory, Recurrent Neural Network (RNN) model applied to the stop embedding to adjust weights of the contextual element relating to the one of the POI candidate embeddings in the set that represents the given stop in the user trajectory; and audibly and visually provide directions to the user of a POI specified by the trajectory-based POI recommendation.
</claims>
</document>
