<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06Q30/00,H04M3/22,H04M3/42,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
N3
</assignee>

<inventors>
COPELAND, SHANNON L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70223575
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Semantic CRM transcripts from mobile communications sessions
</title>

<abstract>
Customer relationship management ('CRM') implemented in a computer system, including administering by the computer system a communications session that includes a sequence of communications contacts between a tele-agent and one or more customer representatives, the session and each contact composed of structured computer memory of the computer system; and generating by the computer system a digital transcript of the content of the communications contacts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of customer relationship management ("CRM") implemented in a computer system, the method comprising: administering by the computer system a communications session comprising a sequence of communications contacts between a tele-agent and one or more customer representatives, the session and each contact comprising a structure of computer memory of the computer system; and generating by the computer system a digital transcript of the content of the communications contacts; wherein administering a communications session comprises establishing, as structure of computer memory of the computer system, the session and each contact as object-oriented modules of automated computing machinery whose structure and contents are also stored as semantic triples in an enterprise knowledge graph.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein administering a communications session comprises: storing in computer memory for the session a subject code, a timestamp, identification of the tele-agent, and identification of the customer representative; and storing in computer memory for each contact a timestamp beginning the contact, duration of the contact, a session identifier for the contact, platform type, contact status, and any communications content of the contact.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the digital transcript comprises: content from text messaging and email identified by author; and content from telephone conversations identified by speaker.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises: gathering text content from contacts that effect communications by text messages and emails; and storing the gathered text content as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises: capturing speech content from telephone conversations between the tele-agent and the customer representative; recognizing the speech content into digitized text; and storing the digitized text as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises: storing speech content from telephone conversations between the tele-agent and the customer representative; and storing, as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph, storage locations of the stored speech.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises identifying by voiceprint comparison the speakers in a conversation between the tele-agent and one or more customer representatives.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises: determining by voiceprint comparison during a telephone conversation between the tele-agent and a customer representative that the customer representative is unknown to the computer system; recording by the computer system a voiceprint for the unknown representative; identifying by the computer system, by prompt and response for an identification, the unknown representative; and recording, by the computer system in association with the recorded voiceprint, the identity of the now-identified representative.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein generating a transcript comprises: parsing, by a parsing engine of the computer system into parsed triples of a description logic, the content of the transcript; inferring, by an inference engine from the parsed triples according to inference rules of said enterprise knowledge graph of the computer system, inferred triples; and storing the parsed triples and the inferred triples in the enterprise knowledge graph.
10. A computer system that implements customer relationship management ("CRM"), the computer system comprising a computer processor operatively coupled to computer memory, the computer processor configured to function by: administering by the computer system a communications session comprising a sequence of communications contacts between a tele-agent and one or more customer representatives, the session and each contact comprising a structure of computer memory of the computer system; and generating by the computer system a digital transcript of the content of the communications contacts; wherein administering a communications session comprises establishing, as structure of computer memory of the computer system, the session and each contact as object-oriented modules of automated computing machinery whose structure and contents are also stored as semantic triples in an enterprise knowledge graph.
11. The computer system of claim 10 wherein administering a communications session comprises: storing in computer memory for the session a subject code, a timestamp, identification of the tele-agent, and identification of the customer representative; and storing in computer memory for each contact a timestamp beginning the contact, duration of the contact, a session identifier for the contact, platform type, contact status, and any communications content of the contact.
12. The computer system of claim 10 wherein the digital transcript comprises: content from text messaging and email identified by author; and content from telephone conversations identified by speaker.
13. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises: gathering text content from contacts that effect communications by text messages and emails; and storing the gathered text content as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph.
14. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises: capturing speech content from telephone conversations between the tele-agent and the customer representative; recognizing the speech content into digitized text; and storing the digitized text as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph.
15. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises: storing speech content from telephone conversations between the tele-agent and the customer representative; and storing, as semantic triples in said enterprise knowledge graph, storage locations of the stored speech.
16. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises identifying by voiceprint comparison the speakers in a conversation between the tele-agent and one or more customer representatives.
17. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises: determining by voiceprint comparison during a telephone conversation between the tele-agent and a customer representative that the customer representative is unknown to the computer system; recording by the computer system a voiceprint for the unknown representative; identifying by the computer system, by prompt and response for an identification, the unknown representative; and recording, by the computer system in association with the recorded voiceprint, the identity of the now-identified representative.
18. The computer system of claim 10 wherein generating a transcript comprises: parsing, by a parsing engine of the computer system into parsed triples of a description logic, the content of the transcript; inferring, by an inference engine from the parsed triples according to inference rules of said enterprise knowledge graph of the computer system, inferred triples; and storing the parsed triples and the inferred triples in the enterprise knowledge graph.
</claims>
</document>
