<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04R25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONOVA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIGWANZ, ULLRICH
EL GUINDI, NADIM
STUMPF, NINA
SPIELER, IVO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69726524
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Accelerometer-based selection of an audio source for a hearing device
</title>

<abstract>
An exemplary hearing device is configured to selectively connect to a remote audio source configured to provide remote audio content. The hearing device operates in a first audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a first audio signal based on a first combination of at least one of the ambient audio content detected by a microphone and the remote audio content. The hearing device determines, while operating in the first audio rendering mode and based on the accelerometer data, a movement of the user. The hearing device determines, based on the movement of the user, whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in a second audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a second audio signal based on a second combination of at least one of the ambient audio content and the remote audio content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hearing device configured to be worn by a user, the hearing device comprising: a microphone configured to detect ambient audio content; an accelerometer configured to output accelerometer data associated with the hearing device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the microphone and the accelerometer, the processor configured to: selectively connect to a remote audio source configured to provide remote audio content; operate in a first audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a first audio signal based on a first combination of at least one of the ambient audio content detected by the microphone and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source; determine, while operating in the first audio rendering mode and based on the accelerometer data, a movement of the user; and determine, based on the movement of the user, whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in a second audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a second audio signal based on a second combination of at least one of the ambient audio content detected by the microphone and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source.
2. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the first audio signal is based more on the remote audio content than on the ambient audio content, wherein the processor is further configured to: detect, in the ambient audio content, specific content; and determine a direction of a source of the specific content, and wherein the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode is based on whether the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content.
3. The hearing device of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content; and switch, based on the determination that the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content, from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with the second audio signal; wherein the second audio signal is based more on the ambient audio content than on the remote audio content.
4. The hearing device of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to: detect, while in the second audio rendering mode and using at least one of the microphone and another sensor of the hearing device, whether the user is speaking; and determine, based on the detecting of whether the user is speaking, whether to switch back from operating in the second audio rendering mode to operating in the first audio rendering mode.
5. The hearing device of claim 3, wherein: the first audio signal is based entirely on the remote audio content, and the second audio signal is based entirely on the ambient audio content.
6. The hearing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to disconnect, based on the switching from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode, from the remote audio source.
7. The hearing device of claim 5, wherein the processor is further configured to direct, based on the switching from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode, the remote audio source to pause the providing of the remote audio content.
8. The hearing device of claim 7, wherein the processor is further configured to: detect, while in the second audio rendering mode and using at least one of the microphone and another sensor of the hearing device, that the user is not speaking for a threshold length of time; switch, based on the detecting that the user is not speaking for the threshold length of time, back from operating in the second audio rendering mode to operating in the first audio rendering mode; and direct, based on the switching from operating in the second audio rendering mode to operating in the first audio rendering mode, the remote audio source to resume the providing of the remote audio content.
9. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein: the processor is further configured to determine, based on the movement of the user, a walking state of the user; and the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode is based on the walking state of the user.
10. The hearing device of claim 9, wherein: the first audio signal is based more on the ambient audio content than on the remote audio content; the second audio signal is based more of the remote audio content than on the ambient audio content; and the processor is configured to abstain from switching from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode if the walking state indicates that the user is taking steps.
11. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein: the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode comprises determining that the processor is to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode; and the processor is further configured to provide, based on the determining that the processor is to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode, the user with a prompt to confirm the determination to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode.
12. The hearing device of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine one or more acoustic environment classifications of the user while operating in the first audio rendering mode, and wherein the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode is additionally based on the one or more acoustic environment classifications.
13. A hearing system comprising: a first hearing device configured for a first ear of a user, the first hearing device comprising a first microphone configured to detect ambient audio content; a second hearing device configured for a second ear of the user, the second hearing device comprising a second microphone configured to detect the ambient audio content; an accelerometer configured to output accelerometer data associated with at least one of the first hearing device and the second hearing device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the first hearing device, the second hearing device, and the accelerometer, the processor configured to: selectively connect to a remote audio source configured to provide remote audio content; operate in a first audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a first audio signal based on a first combination of at least one of the ambient audio content and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source; detect, in the ambient audio content, specific content; determine a direction of a source of the specific content; determine, while operating in the first audio rendering mode and based on the accelerometer data, a movement of the user; and determine, based on a correlation between the movement of the user and the direction of the source of the specific content, whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in a second audio rendering mode in which the processor provides the user with a second audio signal based on a second combination of at least one of the ambient audio content and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source.
14. The hearing system of claim 13, wherein the determining of the direction of the source of the specific content comprises: determining a first signal-to-noise ratio of the specific content detected by the first microphone; determining a second signal-to-noise ratio of the specific content detected by the second microphone; and comparing the first signal-to-noise ratio and the second signal-to-noise ratio.
15. The hearing system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: operate, based on the determination of whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in a second audio rendering mode, the first hearing device in the first audio rendering mode and the second hearing device in the second audio rendering mode.
16. A method comprising: selectively connecting, by a hearing device, to a remote audio source configured to provide remote audio content; operating, by the hearing device, in a first audio rendering mode in which the hearing device provides a user of the hearing device with a first audio signal based on a first combination of at least one of ambient audio content detected by a microphone of the hearing device and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source; determining, by the hearing device, while operating in the first audio rendering mode and based on accelerometer data from an accelerometer, a movement of the user; and determining, by the hearing device and based on the movement of the user, whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in a second audio rendering mode in which the hearing device provides the user with a second audio signal based on a second combination of at least one of the ambient audio content detected by the microphone and the remote audio content provided by the remote audio source.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first audio signal is based more on the remote audio content than on the ambient audio content, the method further comprising: detecting, by the hearing device, in the ambient audio content, specific content; and determining, by the hearing device, a direction of a source of the specific content, and wherein the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode is based on whether the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: determining, by the hearing device, that the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content; switching, by the hearing device and based on the determining that the movement of the user correlates with the direction of the source of the specific content, from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode in which the hearing device provides the user with the second audio signal; wherein the second audio signal is based more on the ambient audio content than on the remote audio content.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising determining, by the hearing device and based on the movement of the user, a walking state of the user; wherein the determining whether to switch from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode is based on the walking state of the user.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: the first audio signal is based more on the ambient audio content than on the remote audio content; the second audio signal is based more of the remote audio content than on the ambient audio content; and the method further comprising abstaining, by the hearing device, from switching from operating in the first audio rendering mode to operating in the second audio rendering mode if the walking state indicates that the user is taking steps.
</claims>
</document>
