<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/951,H04L29/06,H04L9/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHARI, SURESH
EDWARDS, BENJAMIN J.
LEE, TAESUNG
MOLLOY, IAN M.
PARK, YOUNG JA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66951663
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Jointly discovering user roles and data clusters using both access and side information
</title>

<abstract>
Jointly discovering user roles and data clusters using both access and side information by performing the following operation: (i) representing a set of users as respective vectors in a user feature space; representing data as respective vectors in a data feature space; (ii) providing a user-data access matrix, in which each row represents a user's access over the data; and (iii) co-clustering the users and data using the user-data matrix to produce a set of co-clusters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a file user vector data set including a plurality of user vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of users, with each given user record including a plurality of user dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given user; receiving a file vector data set including a plurality of file vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of files, with each given file vector including a plurality of file dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given file; receiving a file access data set including information indicative of access by each user, of the plurality of users, of each file of the plurality of files; and performing co-clustering, by machine logic, with the co-clustering including: selecting a plurality of vector types to be used in the co-clustering, with the plurality of vector types including at least the following vector types: (i) file user vector type having a plurality of user dimensions, and file vector type having a plurality of file dimensions, and making co-clustering determinations of a plurality of co-clustered vector clusters respectively including a plurality of vectors, with the making of the co-clustering determinations including consideration of similarities and differences from dimensions of a plurality of vectors of each vector type of the plurality of vector types, and with: (i) the file user vector type vectors including the plurality of user vectors of the file user vector data set, and (ii) the file vector type vectors including the plurality of file vectors of the file vector data set.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: performing, by machine logic, a security related action based, at least in part on the plurality of co-clustered vector clusters.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the access indicated by the file access data set measures access according to at least one of the following types of measures of access: raw number of access operations by a given user, number of days a given file is accessed by a given user, data volume of write/delete operations by a given user to a given file, time of a day that a given file is accessed by a given user, and actions performed on a given file by a given user.
4. The method of claim 1 where file dimensions for each file correspond to at least one of the following types of file attributes: file name, department, title, division, groups and/or location creation date of file was created, file creator, number of total edits, file size, file extension, and/or file location.
5. The method of claim 1 where user dimensions for each user correspond to at least one of the following types of user attributes: number of years of service, user department, user division, user group, user title, user location, and/or full-time/part-time status.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the performance of co-clustering includes: non-negative matrix factorization; and uses a coupled matrix factorization method.
7. A computer program product (CPP) comprising: a set of storage device(s) with each storage device including a set of storage medium(s); and computer code stored on the set of storage device(s), with the computer code including instructions and data for causing a processor(s) set to perform at least the following operations: receiving a file user vector data set including a plurality of user vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of users, with each given user record including a plurality of user dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given user, receiving a file vector data set including a plurality of file vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of files, with each given file vector including a plurality of file dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given file, receiving a file access data set including information indicative of access by each user, of the plurality of users, of each file of the plurality of files, and performing co-clustering, by machine logic, with the performance of co-clustering including: selecting a plurality of vector types to be used in the co-clustering, with the plurality of vector types including at least the following vector types: (i) file user vector type having a plurality of user dimensions, and file vector type having a plurality of file dimensions, and making co-clustering determinations of a plurality of co-clustered vector clusters respectively including a plurality of vectors, with the making of the co-clustering determinations including consideration of similarities and differences from dimensions of a plurality of vectors of each vector type of the plurality of vector types, and with: (i) the file user vector type vectors including the plurality of user vectors of the file user vector data set, and (ii) the file vector type vectors including the plurality of file vectors of the file vector data set.
8. The CPP of claim 7 wherein the computer code further includes instructions and data for causing the processor(s) set to perform the following operation(s): performing, by machine logic, a security related action based, at least in part on the plurality of co-clustered vector clusters.
9. The CPP of claim 7 wherein the access indicated by the file access data set measures access according to at least one of the following types of measures of access: raw number of access operations by a given user, number of days a given file is accessed by a given user, data volume of write/delete operations by a given user to a given file, time of a day that a given file is accessed by a given user, and actions performed on a given file by a given user.
10. The CPP of claim 7 where file dimensions for each file correspond to at least one of the following types of file attributes: file name, department, title, division, groups and/or location creation date of file was created, file creator, number of total edits, file size, file extension, and/or file location.
11. The CPP of claim 7 where user dimensions for each user correspond to at least one of the following types of user attributes: number of years of service, user department, user division, user group, user title, user location, and/or full-time/part-time status.
12. The CPP of claim 7 wherein the performance of co-clustering includes: non-negative matrix factorization; and uses a coupled matrix factorization method.
13. A computer system (CS) comprising: a processor(s) set; a set of storage device(s) with each storage device including a set of storage medium(s); and computer code stored on the set of storage device(s), with the computer code including instructions and data for causing the processor(s) set to perform at least the following operations: receiving a file user vector data set including a plurality of user vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of users, with each given user record including a plurality of user dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given user, receiving a file vector data set including a plurality of file vectors respectively corresponding to a plurality of files, with each given file vector including a plurality of file dimension values respectively corresponding to attributes of the given file, receiving a file access data set including information indicative of access by each user, of the plurality of users, of each file of the plurality of files, and performing co-clustering, by machine logic, with the performance of co-clustering including: selecting a plurality of vector types to be used in the co-clustering, with the plurality of vector types including at least the following vector types: (i) file user vector type having a plurality of user dimensions, and file vector type having a plurality of file dimensions, and making co-clustering determinations of a plurality of co-clustered vector clusters respectively including a plurality of vectors, with the making of the co-clustering determinations including consideration of similarities and differences from dimensions of a plurality of vectors of each vector type of the plurality of vector types, and with: (i) the file user vector type vectors including the plurality of user vectors of the file user vector data set, and (ii) the file vector type vectors including the plurality of file vectors of the file vector data set.
14. The CS of claim 13 wherein the computer code further includes instructions and data for causing the processor(s) set to perform the following operation(s): performing, by machine logic, a security related action based, at least in part on the plurality of co-clustered vector clusters.
15. The CS of claim 13 wherein the access indicated by the file access data set measures access according to at least one of the following types of measures of access: raw number of access operations by a given user, number of days a given file is accessed by a given user, data volume of write/delete operations by a given user to a given file, time of a day that a given file is accessed by a given user, and actions performed on a given file by a given user.
16. The CS of claim 13 where file dimensions for each file correspond to at least one of the following types of file attributes: file name, department, title, division, groups and/or location creation date of file was created, file creator, number of total edits, file size, file extension, and/or file location.
17. The CS of claim 13 where user dimensions for each user correspond to at least one of the following types of user attributes: number of years of service, user department, user division, user group, user title, user location, and/or full-time/part-time status.
18. The CS of claim 13 wherein the performance of co-clustering includes: non-negative matrix factorization; and uses a coupled matrix factorization method.
</claims>
</document>
