<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F40/20,G06F40/205,G06F40/253,G06F40/284,G06F40/35,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BIYANI, PRAKHAR
TSIOUTSIOULIKLIS, KOSTAS
BANERJEE, SIDDHARTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64657445
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computerized system and method for automatically transforming and providing domain specific chatbot responses
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems and methods for improving interactions with and between computers in content searching, generating, hosting and/or providing systems supported by or configured with personal computing devices, servers and/or platforms. The disclosure provides a computerized framework for automatically generating chatbot responses to produce domain-specific responses that mimic native styles unique to particular domains. The disclosed systems and methods construct domain-specific word-graphs based on account activity from specific domains and generate word-patterns. New words obtained from the patterns in the graph are introduced to transform the regular response. The graph is then pruned using data-driven thresholds in order to avoid spurious transformations, and paragraph vectors are also utilized to assign relevance scores to generated patterns such that only the patterns that are contextually similar to the original response (generic/regular response) are used. As result, the regular chatbot response is rewritten using an optimized set of patterns.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, a request from a user, said request comprising a sequence of words input by the user into a user interface (UI) associated with a chatbot provided to a user device by the computing device over a network; searching, via the computing device, a database based on said request, said search comprising identifying, within said database, a first response comprising a responsive sequence of words; identifying, via the computing device, a domain-specific word graph related to a domain associated with the chatbot, said domain-specific word graph comprising a bigram structure for how words are organized in relation to each other on said domain; modifying, via the computing device, the first response according to said identified domain-specific word graph, said modification comprising inserting at least one word into said first response based on the bigram structure, said modification causing the creation of a second response; and communicating, via the computing device, said second response to the user device in response to said request for display within the UI.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a domain corresponding to said request, wherein said domain-specific word graph is associated with said identified domain, said domain related to a type of personality of speech.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: searching a repository of synonymous words based on said first response; and identifying, based on said search, a set of synonyms for each word in the first response.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: creating a second bigram based on said identified set of synonyms, said second bigram includes the identified set of synonyms, wherein said domain-specific word graph is based on said second bigram.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a set of word patterns within said bigram based on the domain-specific word graph, each word pattern identifying a path of each word within the bigram.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: analyzing each word pattern, and based on said analysis, determining co-occurrences, contextual similarity and linguistic quality between the words in the bigram based on each identified path; and selecting a word pattern based on said determination, wherein said modification is based on a bigram comprising said selected word pattern.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said computation of said contextual similarity comprises: computing a cosine similarity between a paragraph vector of the first response and a paragraph vector of each word pattern; and ranking cosine similarities of each word pattern, wherein said selected word pattern is within a predetermined number of top ranked patterns.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said computation of said linguistic quality comprises: computing a score of linguistic confidence based on at least one language trained model; and determining, based on the linguistic confidence scores, a probability for each word pattern.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium tangibly encoded with computer-executable instructions, that when executed by a processor associated with a computing device, performs a method comprising: receiving, at the computing device, a request from a user, said request comprising a sequence of words input by the user into a user interface (UI) associated with a chatbot provided to a user device by the computing device over a network; searching, via the computing device, a database based on said request, said search comprising identifying, within said database, a first response comprising a responsive sequence of words; identifying, via the computing device, a domain-specific word graph related to a domain associated with the chatbot, said domain-specific word graph comprising a bigram structure for how words are organized in relation to each other on said domain; modifying, via the computing device, the first response according to said identified domain-specific word graph, said modification comprising inserting at least one word into said first response based on the bigram structure, said modification causing the creation of a second response; and communicating, via the computing device, said second response to the user device in response to said request for display within the UI.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, further comprising: identifying a domain corresponding to said request, wherein said domain-specific word graph is associated with said identified domain, said domain related to a type of personality of speech.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, further comprising: searching a repository of synonymous words based on said first response; and identifying, based on said search, a set of synonyms for each word in the first response.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, further comprising: creating a second bigram based on said identified set of synonyms, said second bigram includes the identified set of synonyms, wherein said domain-specific word graph is based on said second bigram.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, further comprising: determining a set of word patterns within said bigram based on the domain-specific word graph, each word pattern identifying a path of each word within the bigram.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising: analyzing each word pattern, and based on said analysis, determining co-occurrences, contextual similarity and linguistic quality between the words in the bigram based on each identified path; and selecting a word pattern based on said determination, wherein said modification is based on a bigram comprising said selected word pattern.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein said computation of said contextual similarity comprises: computing a cosine similarity between a paragraph vector of the first response and a paragraph vector of each word pattern; and ranking cosine similarities of each word pattern, wherein said selected word pattern is within a predetermined number of top ranked patterns.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein said computation of said linguistic quality comprises: computing a score of linguistic confidence based on at least one language trained model; and determining, based on the linguistic confidence scores, a probability for each word pattern.
17. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executed by the processor for receiving, at the computing device, a request from a user, said request comprising a sequence of words input by the user into a user interface (UI) associated with a chatbot provided to a user device by the computing device over a network; logic executed by the processor for searching, via the computing device, a database based on said request, said search comprising identifying, within said database, a first response comprising a responsive sequence of words; logic executed by the processor for identifying, via the computing device, a domain-specific word graph related to a domain associated with the chatbot, said domain-specific word graph comprising a bigram structure for how words are organized in relation to each other on said domain; logic executed by the processor for modifying, via the computing device, the first response according to said identified domain-specific word graph, said modification comprising inserting at least one word into said first response based on the bigram structure, said modification causing the creation of a second response; and logic executed by the processor for communicating, via the computing device, said second response to the user device in response to said request for display within the UI.
18. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: logic executed by the processor for identifying a domain corresponding to said request, wherein said domain-specific word graph is associated with said identified domain, said domain related to a type of personality of speech.
19. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: logic executed by the processor for searching a repository of synonymous words based on said first response; logic executed by the processor for identifying, based on said search, a set of synonyms for each word in the first response; and logic executed by the processor for creating a second bigram based on said identified set of synonyms, said second bigram includes the identified set of synonyms, wherein said domain-specific word graph is based on said second bigram.
20. The computing device of claim 17, further comprising: logic executed by the processor for determining a set of word patterns within said bigram based on the domain-specific word graph, each word pattern identifying a path of each word within the bigram; logic executed by the processor for analyzing each word pattern, and based on said analysis, determining co-occurrences, contextual similarity and linguistic quality between the words in the bigram based on each identified path; and logic executed by the processor for selecting a word pattern based on said determination, wherein said modification is based on a bigram comprising said selected word pattern.
</claims>
</document>
