<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLYMPUS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUJII, MASAKAZU
ISHII SATOSHI
MATSUSHITA AKIRA
MIYOSHI TAKASHI
NAKATOMI, TAKAYUKI
SAKANE, ISAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65809214
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image-processing device and cell observation system
</title>

<abstract>
a processor including hardware; the processor configured to: analyze an image of the inside of a culture vessel that cultures cells, and acquire quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells inside the culture vessel; and generate comparison data that allows comparison of the acquired quantitative data of the living cells and the acquired quantitative data of the dead cells.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cell observation system comprising: a culture observation device that acquires, images of cells being cultured inside a culture vessel; a computer that is configured to perform steps (i)-(iii), in order, a plurality of times: (i) acquire an image; (ii) analyze the image acquired by the culture observation device, and acquire quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells inside the culture vessel; and (iii) record the acquired quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells in a database; and, the computer further configured to generate comparison data that allows comparison of changes in the acquired quantitative data of the living cells and changes in the acquired quantitative data of the dead cells; and a monitor that displays the generated comparison data.
2. The cell observation system according to claim 1, further comprising a recording device that records the acquired quantitative data.
3. The cell observation system according to claim 2, wherein the recording device records the acquired quantitative data for past cultures, and the computer is configured to generate comparison data that allows comparison of the quantitative data acquired for different cultures.
4. The cell observation system according to claim 2, wherein the recording device has reference data of changes in the quantitative data of the living cells over time and reference data of changes in the quantitative data of the dead cells over time for each cell type, and the computer is configured to generate comparison data that allows comparison of a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the living cells over time and the reference data of the living cells, and that allows comparison of a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the dead cells over time and the reference data of the dead cells.
5. The cell observation system according to claim 4, wherein the computer is configured to generate reference data of the living cells and reference data of the dead cells for each evaluation result from the quantitative data of the living cells and the quantitative data of the dead cells acquired for past cultures recorded in the recording device, and the recording device records the generated reference data.
6. The cell observation system according to claim 2, further comprising an input device that allows an operator to input evaluation results of cultured cells, wherein the recording device records the evaluation results input to the input device in association with the acquired quantitative data for a cell culture that is being evaluated.
7. The cell observation system according to claim 6, wherein the computer is configured to determine whether or not a condition of the cells inside the culture vessel is acceptable on a basis of comparison of current quantitative data of cells inside the culture vessel and quantitative data acquired for past cultures recorded in the recording device in association with the evaluation results.
8. The cell observation system according to claim 1, wherein the computer is configured to generate comparison data in which a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the living cells over time and a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the dead cells over time are superposed with each other.
9. The cell observation system according to claim 1, wherein the culture vessel is a flask or a multiwell plate.
10. The cell observation system according to claim 1, wherein the images of the cells being cultured are acquired in an incubator.
11. A cell observation system comprising: a culture observation device that acquires an image of inside of a culture vessel that cultures cells; a computer that is configured to: analyze the image acquired by the culture observation device, and acquire quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells inside the culture vessel; and generate comparison data that allows comparison of the acquired quantitative data of the living cells and the acquired quantitative data of the dead cells; a monitor that displays the generated comparison data; and a recording device that records the acquired quantitative data, wherein the recording device has reference data of changes in the quantitative data of the living cells over time and reference data of changes in the quantitative data of the dead cells over time for each cell type, the computer is configured to generate comparison data that allows comparison of a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the living cells over time and the reference data of the living cells, and that allows comparison of a graph of changes in the quantitative data of the dead cells over time and the reference data of the dead cells, the reference data includes a lower limit and an upper limit set for the quantitative data of the living cells, and a lower limit and an upper limit set for the quantitative data of the dead cells, and the computer is configured to compare the quantitative data of the living cells with the lower limit and the upper limit therefor, compare the quantitative data of the dead cells with the lower limit and the upper limit therefor, and determine whether or not a condition of the cells is acceptable on a basis of results of the comparisons.
12. The cell observation system according to claim 11, wherein the computer is configured to display an acceptable range defined by the lower limit and the upper limit for the quantitative data of the living cells and an acceptable range defined by the lower limit and the upper limit for the quantitative data of the dead cells.
13. The cell observation system according to claim 11, wherein the computer is configured to predict future quantitative data of the living cells on a basis of current quantitative data of the living cells, predict future quantitative data of the dead cells on a basis of current quantitative data of the dead cells, compare the predicted future quantitative data of the living cells and the dead cells with the lower limits and upper limits therefor, and determine whether or not a condition of the cells is acceptable on a basis of results of comparisons.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having a program stored therein, the program causing a computer to: perform steps (i)-(iii), in order, a plurality of times, (i) acquiring an image; (ii) analyzing the image of cells being cultured inside a culture vessel, the image being acquired over time, and acquiring quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells inside the culture vessel; (iii) recording the acquired quantitative data of living cells and quantitative data of dead cells in a database, the program causing the computer to also generate comparison data that allows comparison of changes in the acquired quantitative data of the living cells over time and changes in the acquired quantitative data of the dead cells over time; and output the generated comparison data to be displayed.
</claims>
</document>
