<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/30,G08B21/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALTER S. AUSTIN
FARIVAR, REZA
RAFFERTY, GALEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70973270
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Utilizing sensor data to identify an item left in a vehicle and to perform actions based on identifying the left item
</title>

<abstract>
A device receives, at a first time, first sensor data from a sensor associated with a vehicle, wherein a passenger and an item are located within the vehicle after the first time, and determines a first weight based on the first sensor data. The device receives, at a second time, second sensor data from the sensor, wherein the passenger is not located within the vehicle at the second time, and determines a second weight based on the second sensor data. The determines whether the item is located in the vehicle at the second time based on the first weight and the second weight, and selectively performs actions based on determining whether the item is located in the vehicle. The actions are performed after the item is determined to be located in the vehicle, and are not performed after the item is not determined to be located in the vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device and at a first time, first sensor data from a sensor associated with a vehicle, wherein a passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time, and wherein an item associated with the passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time; determining, by the device, a first weight based on the first sensor data; receiving, by the device and at a second time, second sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, wherein the second time occurs after the first time, and wherein the passenger is not located within the vehicle at the second time; determining, by the device, a second weight based on the second sensor data; receiving, by the device and prior to the passenger entering the vehicle, information indicating a weight of an extra item located in the vehicle, wherein the information indicating the weight of the extra item is received from a user device associated with a driver of the vehicle; adjusting, by the device, a baseline for the first sensor data and the second sensor data based on the weight of the extra item; comparing, by the device, the first weight and the second weight to determine whether the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the item is determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time when a difference between the first weight and the second weight satisfies a threshold value, and wherein the item is not determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time when a difference between the first weight and the second weight fails to satisfy the threshold value; and selectively performing, by the device, one or more actions based on determining whether the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the one or more actions are performed after the item is determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time, and wherein the one or more actions are not performed after the item is not determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein, after the item is determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time, performing the one or more actions comprises one or more of: providing, to a user device of the passenger, a first message indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle; providing, to a user device of a driver of the vehicle, a second message indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle; providing, to the user device of the passenger, a first automated telephone call indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle; providing, to the user device of the driver, a second automated telephone call indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle; or providing, to the driver, a haptic alert indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: triggering a ride share service to start charging the passenger based on receiving the first sensor data; and triggering the ride share service to stop charging the passenger based on receiving the second sensor data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, prior to the passenger entering the vehicle, information indicating a time period for carrying an extra item located in the vehicle, wherein the information indicating the time period for carrying the extra item is received from a user device associated with a driver of the vehicle; and adjusting a baseline for the first sensor data and the second sensor data based on the time period for carrying the extra item.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor is one of a plurality of sensors located at one or more of: under a trunk plate of the vehicle, under one or more seats of the vehicle, or under one or more floor panels of the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor comprises one or more of: a piezoelectric weight sensor, a Hall effect weight sensor, or a strain gauge weight sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle is associated with one of: a ride share service, or a taxicab service.
8. A device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, configured to: receive, at a first time, first sensor data from a sensor associated with a vehicle, wherein a passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time, and wherein an item associated with the passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time; determine a first weight based on the first sensor data; receive, at a second time, second sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, wherein the second time occurs after the first time, and wherein the passenger is not located within the vehicle at the second time; determine a second weight based on the second sensor data; receive, prior to the passenger entering the vehicle, information indicating a time period for carrying an extra item located in the vehicle, wherein the information indicating the time period for carrying the extra item is received from a user device associated with a driver of the vehicle; adjust a baseline for the first sensor data and the second sensor data based on the time period for carrying the extra item; compare the first weight and the second weight to determine that the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the item is determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time when a difference between the first weight and the second weight satisfies a threshold value; and perform one or more actions based on determining that the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the one or more actions include one or more of: providing, to a user device of the passenger, a message or an automated telephone call indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle, or providing, to a user device of a driver of the vehicle, the message or the automated telephone call indicating that the passenger left the item in the vehicle.
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive, at the second time, third sensor data from another sensor associated with the vehicle; and verify that the item is located in the vehicle at the second time based on the third sensor data.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the other sensor includes one or more of: a camera located within the vehicle, a radar sensor located within the vehicle, a source sensor located within the vehicle, or a motion sensor located within the vehicle.
11. The device of claim 8, wherein the first sensor data and the second sensor data is received from one or more of: the sensor, a vehicle control system of the vehicle, or a user device associated with a driver of the vehicle.
12. The device of claim 8, wherein the vehicle is associated with one of: a ride share service, or a taxicab service.
13. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when receiving the first sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, are configured to: receive the first sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle based on the passenger starting a ride share service with the vehicle.
14. The device of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when receiving the second sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, are configured to: receive the second sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle based on the passenger ending a ride share service with the vehicle.
15. The device of claim 8, wherein the sensor comprises one or more of: a piezoelectric weight sensor, a Hall effect weight sensor, or a strain gauge weight sensor.
16. The device of claim 8, wherein the sensor is one of a plurality of sensors located at one or more of: under a trunk plate of the vehicle, under one or more seats of the vehicle, or under one or more floor panels of the vehicle.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, at a first time, first sensor data from a sensor associated with a vehicle, wherein a passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time, and wherein an item associated with the passenger is located within the vehicle after the first time; determine a first weight based on the first sensor data; receive, at a second time, second sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, wherein the second time occurs after the first time, and wherein the passenger is not located within the vehicle at the second time; determine a second weight based on the second sensor data; compare the first weight and the second weight to determine whether the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the item is determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time when a difference between the first weight and the second weight satisfies a threshold value, and wherein the item is not determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time when a difference between the first weight and the second weight fails to satisfy the threshold value; and perform an action based on determining whether the item is located in the vehicle at the second time, wherein the action is performed after the item is not determined to be located in the vehicle at the second time, and wherein the action comprises one or more of: triggering a ride share service to bill the passenger, or triggering a taxicab service to bill the passenger.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise: one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, prior to the passenger entering the vehicle, information indicating a weight of an extra item located in the vehicle; and adjust a baseline for the first sensor data and the second sensor data based on the weight of the extra item.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions further comprise: one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, at the second time, third sensor data from another sensor associated with the vehicle; and verify whether or not the item is located in the vehicle at the second time based on the third sensor data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to receive the first sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle, further cause the one or more processors to: receive the first sensor data from the sensor associated with the vehicle based on the passenger starting the ride share service with the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
