<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06N5/02,G06Q40/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WILLIAMS, III, ATHER
TRAER-CLARK, JONATHON
HOLCOMB, EILEEN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67905858
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and platform for execution of consolidated resource-based action
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provide a system for execution of consolidated resource-based actions. A plurality of disparate databases may be monitored and resources from these disparate databases can be aggregated or otherwise consolidated to a consolidated resource database. A request can be received from a computing device of the user, where the request includes request parameters that provide structure and specificity to the request. Relevant data is identified from the plurality of disparate databases and/or from the consolidated resource database. A determination is made for a response action based on the relevant data and the request parameters, where such a determination can be made through the assistance of artificial intelligence or machine learning engines. Finally, the responsive action is executed, which involves at least causing a user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate a response to the received request.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for execution of consolidated resource-based actions, the system comprising: a memory device; and a processing device operatively coupled to the memory device, wherein the processing device is configured to execute computer-readable program code to: monitor a plurality of disparate databases; receive a request from a computing device of a user, wherein the received request comprises request parameters, wherein the request parameters comprise at least the scope of the request, the boundaries of the request, the desired output, and time-based information; identify relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases based on the request parameters; aggregate the relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; initiate an artificial intelligence engine on the aggregated relevant data stored in the consolidated resource database; determine, using the artificial intelligence engine, a responsive action based on the aggregated relevant data retrieved from the consolidated resource database and the request parameters; in response to determining the responsive action, execute the responsive action, wherein executing the responsive action comprises at least causing a user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate a response to the received request.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein monitoring the plurality of disparate databases comprises continuously monitoring a plurality of databases associated with a plurality of disparate systems of record.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to execute computer-readable program code to: aggregate data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; and identify the relevant data from the consolidated resource database based on the request parameters.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing device is further configured to execute computer-readable program code to: provide an online portal to the computing device of the user; receive the request from the computing device of the user via the online portal; and cause the user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate the response to the received request via the online portal.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the responsive action based on the relevant data and the request parameters comprises transmitting the relevant data and the request parameters to the artificial intelligence engine configured to determine responsive actions, and receiving an output of the responsive action from the artificial intelligence engine.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the received request comprises a command to adjust an authorization level of an individual to interact with a financial account associated with the user; and wherein executing the responsive action comprises adjusting the authorization level of the individual to interact with the financial account associated with the user and transmitting a notification message confirming the adjusting to the computing device of the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the received request comprises a command to provide a model of a future financial status of an entity associated with the user; wherein determining the responsive action based on the relevant data and the parameters comprises generating the model of the future financial status of the entity; and wherein executing the responsive action further comprises displaying the model of the future financial status of the entity on the computing device of the user along with one or more adjustable variables that are configured to adjust one or more inputs to the model of the future financial status of the entity.
8. A computer program product for execution of consolidated resource-based actions, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer readable instructions, the instructions comprising instructions for: monitoring a plurality of disparate databases; receiving a request from a computing device of a user, wherein the received request comprises request parameters, wherein the request parameters comprise at least the scope of the request, the boundaries of the request, the desired output, and time-based information; identifying relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases based on the request parameters; aggregating the relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; initiating an artificial intelligence engine on the aggregated relevant data stored in the consolidated resource database; determining, using the artificial intelligence engine, a responsive action based on the aggregated relevant data retrieved from the consolidated resource database and the request parameters; in response to determining the responsive action, executing the responsive action, wherein executing the responsive action comprises at least causing a user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate a response to the received request.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein monitoring the plurality of disparate databases comprises continuously monitoring a plurality of databases associated with a plurality of disparate systems of record.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the computer readable instructions further comprise instructions for: aggregating data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; and identifying the relevant data from the consolidated resource database based on the request parameters.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the computer readable instructions further comprise instructions for: providing an online portal to the computing device of the user; receiving the request from the computing device of the user via the online portal; and causing the user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate the response to the received request via the online portal.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein determining the responsive action based on the relevant data and the request parameters comprises transmitting the relevant data and the request parameters to the artificial intelligence engine configured to determine responsive actions, and receiving an output of the responsive action from the artificial intelligence engine.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the received request comprises a command to adjust an authorization level of an individual to interact with a financial account associated with the user; and wherein executing the responsive action comprises adjusting the authorization level of the individual to interact with the financial account associated with the user and transmitting a notification message confirming the adjusting to the computing device of the user.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the received request comprises a command to provide a model of a future financial status of an entity associated with the user; wherein determining the responsive action based on the relevant data and the parameters comprises generating the model of the future financial status of the entity; and wherein executing the responsive action further comprises displaying the model of the future financial status of the entity on the computing device of the user along with one or more adjustable variables that are configured to adjust one or more inputs to the model of the future financial status of the entity.
15. A computer implemented method for execution of consolidated resource-based actions, said computer implemented method comprising: providing a computing system comprising a computer processing device and a non-transitory computer readable medium, where the computer readable medium comprises configured computer program instruction code, such that when said instruction code is operated by said computer processing device, said computer processing device performs the following operations: monitoring a plurality of disparate databases; receiving a request from a computing device of a user, wherein the received request comprises request parameters, wherein the request parameters comprise at least the scope of the request, the boundaries of the request, the desired output, and time-based information; identifying relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases based on the request parameters; aggregating the relevant data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; initiating an artificial intelligence engine on the aggregated relevant data stored in the consolidated resource database; determining, using the artificial intelligence engine, a responsive action based on the aggregated relevant data retrieved from the consolidated resource database and the request parameters; in response to determining the responsive action, executing the responsive action, wherein executing the responsive action comprises at least causing a user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate a response to the received request.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein monitoring the plurality of disparate databases comprises continuously monitoring a plurality of databases associated with a plurality of disparate systems of record.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: aggregating data from the plurality of disparate databases into a consolidated resource database; and identifying the relevant data from the consolidated resource database based on the request parameters.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: providing an online portal to the computing device of the user; receiving the request from the computing device of the user via the online portal; and causing the user interface of the computing device of the user to communicate the response to the received request via the online portal.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein determining the responsive action based on the relevant data and the request parameters comprises transmitting the relevant data and the request parameters to the artificial intelligence engine configured to determine responsive actions, and receiving an output of the responsive action from the artificial intelligence engine.
20. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein the received request comprises a command to adjust an authorization level of an individual to interact with a financial account associated with the user; and wherein executing the responsive action comprises adjusting the authorization level of the individual to interact with the financial account associated with the user and transmitting a notification message confirming the adjusting to the computing device of the user.
</claims>
</document>
