<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
MERMOUD, GRÉGORY
DI PIETRO, ANDREA
MOTA, JAVIER CRUZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65199308
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic selection of models for hybrid network assurance architectures
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a local service of a network reports configuration information regarding the network to a cloud-based network assurance service. The local service receives a classifier selected by the cloud-based network assurance service based on the configuration information regarding the network. The local service classifies, using the received classifier, telemetry data collected from the network, to select a modeling strategy for the network. The local service installs, based on the modeling strategy for the network, a machine learning-based model to the local service for monitoring the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: reporting, by a local service of a network, configuration information regarding the network to a cloud-based network assurance service; receiving, at the local service, a classifier generated by the cloud-based network assurance service based on a plurality of modeling strategies that are selected by the cloud-based network assurance service according to the configuration information reported by the local service; classifying, by the local service and using the received classifier, telemetry data collected from the network to select a modeling strategy for the network among the plurality of modeling strategies selected by the cloud-based network assurance service; and installing, by the local service and based on the modeling strategy for the network, a machine learning-based model to the local service for monitoring the network.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the installed machine learning-based model is a machine learning-based anomaly detector or a trained machine learning-based classifier that assesses traffic information from the network.
3. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: reporting, by the local service and to the cloud-based network assurance service, a set of potential input features for the classifier that are available to the local service.
4. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the local service and from the cloud-based network assurance service, the machine learning-based model, wherein the cloud-based network assurance service trained the model, and wherein the modeling strategy specifies the trained model for installation.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein installing, by the local service and based on the modeling strategy for the network, the machine learning-based model to the local service for monitoring the network comprises: training, by the local service, the machine learning-based model according to the modeling strategy, wherein the modeling strategy is determined by an output of the received classifier.
6. The method as in claim 5, wherein the modeling strategy specifies at least one of: a time window, percentile value, type of anomaly detection, or rescaling factor to be used by the machine learning-based model.
7. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: detecting, by the local service, a change in input features from the network for the classifier; and, in response, requesting, by the local service, a new classifier from the cloud-based network assurance service.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the local service, expiration of a reporting timer, wherein the local service reports the configuration information regarding the network to the cloud-based network assurance service after expiration of the reporting timer.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein classifying the telemetry data collected from the network, to select a modeling strategy for the network, further comprises: classifying, using the received classifier, Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Internet Protocol Flow Information Export (IPFIX), or Netflow information from the network.
10. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: using, by the local service, the installed machine learning-based model to monitor the network; and controlling, by the local service, operation of the network based on the monitoring.
11. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: report configuration information regarding the network to a cloud-based network assurance service; receive a classifier generated by the cloud-based network assurance service based on a plurality of modeling strategies that are selected by the cloud-based network assurance service according to the configuration information reported by the local service; classify, using the received classifier, telemetry data collected from the network to select a modeling strategy for the network among the plurality of modeling strategies selected by the cloud-based network assurance service; and install, based on the modeling strategy for the network, a machine learning-based model for monitoring the network.
12. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the installed machine learning-based model is a machine learning-based anomaly detector or a trained machine learning-based classifier that assesses traffic information from the network.
13. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus receives the classifier selected by the cloud-based network assurance service by: receiving, from the cloud-based network assurance service, a set of input features required by the classifier.
14. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: receive, from the cloud-based network assurance service, the machine learning-based model, wherein the cloud-based network assurance service trained the model, and wherein the modeling strategy specifies the trained model for installation.
15. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus installs, based on the modeling strategy for the network, the machine learning-based model for monitoring the network by: training the machine learning-based model according to the modeling strategy, wherein the modeling strategy is determined by an output of the received classifier.
16. The apparatus as in claim 15, wherein the modeling strategy specifies at least one of: a time window, percentile value, type of anomaly detection, or rescaling factor to be used by the machine learning-based model.
17. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: detect a change in input features from the network for the classifier; and, in response, request a new classifier from the cloud-based network assurance service.
18. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: identify an expiration of a reporting timer, wherein the configuration information regarding the network is reported to the cloud-based network assurance service after expiration of the reporting timer.
19. The apparatus as in claim 11, wherein the apparatus classifies the telemetry data collected from the network, to select a modeling strategy for the network, by: classifying, using the received classifier, Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), Internet Protocol Flow Information Export (IPFIX), or Netflow information from the network.
20. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a local service in a network to execute a process comprising: reporting, by the local service of the network, configuration information regarding the network to a cloud-based network assurance service; receiving, at the local service, a generated selected by the cloud-based network assurance service based on a plurality of modeling strategies that are selected by the cloud-based network assurance service according to the configuration information reported by the local service; classifying, by the local service and using the received classifier, telemetry data collected from the network to select a modeling strategy for the network among the plurality of modeling strategies selected by the cloud-based network assurance service; and installing, by the local service and based on the modeling strategy for the network, a machine learning-based model to the local service for monitoring the network.
</claims>
</document>
