<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06Q40/02,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, JASON
PARKINSON, JOHN
HANSEN, MARK D.
Kalke, Amaeya
Liu, Dongmin
Weidmann, Cindy
deGuia, Nicolette
Montero, Sergio G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72515318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital footprint visual navigation
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, computer-readable media, software, and apparatuses may assist the user in understanding their unique digital footprint and the connections from the data within the footprint to the user's connections online and in the physical world. The determined information may be visually displayed to the user along with recommendations regarding digital safety.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by a computing device and for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account of a plurality of accounts of a user; based on the determined likelihood, determining a strength relationship indicator for each of the accounts of the user; categorizing each of the plurality of accounts of the user, based on the determined strength relationship indicator into a corresponding relationship group of a plurality of relationship groups; and displaying, on a user interface, the relationship groups, wherein the relationship groups are displayed as a plurality of concentric circles, and wherein a distance from the center to each concentric circle is based on a corresponding determined strength indicator.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the concentric circles include at least one node representing at least one account, the at least one account comprising a financial account.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one node is expanded to provide details of the financial account.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: after displaying the relationship groups, receiving a request to change a categorization of an account; and displaying on the user interface, updated relationship groups.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying a breach of a financial account; and displaying the identified breached financial account on the user interface.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising transmitting information related to fixing the breached financial account.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising automatically taking corrective action to minimize an impact of the breached financial account.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the strength relationship indicator further comprises: determining a frequency of contact with the user; and determining a recency of contact and a length of contact with the user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a distance corresponding to a frequent contact is shorter than a distance corresponding to a less frequent contact.
10. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory unit storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the apparatus to: determine, for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account of a plurality of accounts of a user; based on the determined likelihood, determine a strength relationship indicator for each of the accounts of the user; categorize each of the plurality of accounts of the user, based on the determined strength relationship indicator, into a corresponding relationship group of a plurality of relationship groups; and display, on a user interface, the relationship groups, wherein the relationship groups are displayed as a plurality of concentric circles, and wherein a distance from the center to each concentric circle is based on a corresponding determined strength indicator.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the concentric circles include at least one node representing at least one social media account.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one node is expanded to provide details of the at least one social media account.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to: after displaying the relationship groups, receive a request to change a categorization of an account; and display, on the user interface, updated relationship groups.
14. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to: identify a breach of a financial account; and display the identified breached financial account on the user interface.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to transmit information related to fixing the breached financial account.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to automatically take corrective action to minimize an impact of the breached financial account.
17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by the processor, further cause the apparatus to determine the strength relationship indicator by causing the apparatus to: determine a frequency of contact with the user; and determine a recency of contact and a length of contact with the user.
18. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein a distance corresponding to a frequent contact is shorter than a distance corresponding to a less frequent contact.
19. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by a computing device, cause the computing device to: determine, for a plurality of items of email correspondence, a likelihood that each item of email correspondence represents an account of a plurality of accounts of a user; based on the determined likelihood, determine a strength relationship indicator for each of the accounts of the user; categorize each of the plurality of accounts of the user, based on the determined strength relationship indicator, into a corresponding relationship group of a plurality of relationship groups; and display, on a user interface, the relationship groups, wherein the relationship groups are displayed as a plurality of concentric circles, and wherein a distance from the center to each concentric circle is based on a corresponding determined strength indicator.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the concentric circles include at least one node representing at least one determined account.
21. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein a distance corresponding to a frequent contact is shorter than a distance corresponding to a less frequent contact.
</claims>
</document>
