<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, SUNGCHUL
KOH, EUNYEE
RAO, ANUP BANDIGADI
ROSSI, RYAN A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848525
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Higher-order network embedding
</title>

<abstract>
In implementations of higher-order network embedding, a computing device maintains interconnected data in the form of a graph that represents a network, the graph including nodes that each represent entities in the network and node associations that each represent edges between the nodes in the graph. The computing device includes a network embedding module that is implemented to determine a frequency of k-vertex motifs for each of the edges in the graph, and derive motif-based matrices from the frequency of each of the k-vertex motifs in the graph. The network embedding module is also implemented to determine a higher-order network embedding for each of the nodes in the graph from each of the motif-based matrices. The network embedding module can then concatenate the higher-order network embeddings into a matrix representation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. In a digital medium environment for higher-order network embedding, a method implemented by at least one computing device, the method comprising: receiving interconnected data in the form of a graph that represents a network, the graph including nodes that each represent an entity in the network and node associations that each represent an edge between two of the nodes in the graph; determining a frequency of k-vertex motifs for each of the edges in the graph; deriving motif-based matrices from the frequency of each of the k-vertex motifs in the graph; determining a higher-order network embedding for each of the nodes in the graph from each of the motif-based matrices; and generating a network model of the network based on the higher-order network embeddings of the nodes in the graph, the network model usable by a recommendation system to model roles of the entities in the network.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising concatenating the higher-order network embeddings into a matrix that represents dependencies and connectivity patterns among the nodes and the node associations.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining a motif matrix function that represents a mapping of the nodes to d-dimensional features represented by the higher-order network embeddings.
4. The method as recited in claim 3, further comprising deriving weighted motif graphs from the motif matrix function.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the motif-based matrices that are derived from the frequency of the k-vertex motifs are weighted motif graphs.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining a joint higher-order network embedding from the matrix, the joint higher-order network embedding representing subgraph patterns of subgraphs of the network.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the deriving the motif-based matrices comprises using a k-step linear operator for linear attribute diffusion without explicit construction of the motif-based matrices.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising determining a network representation from machine learning applied to the higher-order network embeddings.
9. A computing device implemented for higher-order network embedding in a digital medium environment, the computing device comprising: a memory to maintain interconnected data in the form of a graph that represents a network, the graph including nodes that each represent an entity in the network and node associations that each represent an edge between two of the nodes in the graph; a processor system configured to execute a network embedding module implemented to: determine a frequency of k-vertex motifs for each of the edges in the graph; derive motif-based matrices from the frequency of each of the k-vertex motifs in the graph; determine a higher-order network embedding for each of the nodes in the graph from each of the motif-based matrices; concatenate the higher-order network embeddings into a matrix representation; and the processor system configured to apply machine learning to model behavior roles of the entities in the network based on the matrix representation.
10. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the network embedding module is implemented to determine the frequency of the k-vertex motifs by counting the frequency of the k-vertex motifs in the graph.
11. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the network embedding module is implemented to determine a motif matrix function that represents a mapping of the nodes to d-dimensional features represented by the higher-order network embeddings.
12. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the motif-based matrices that are derived from the frequency of the k-vertex motifs are weighted motif graphs.
13. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the network embedding module is implemented to determine a joint higher-order network embedding from the matrix, the joint higher-order network embedding representing subgraph patterns of the subgraphs of the network.
14. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the network embedding module is implemented to derive the motif-based matrices using a k-step linear operator for linear attribute diffusion to diffuse attributes that are incorporated into the higher-order network embeddings.
15. The computing device as recited in claim 9, wherein the network embedding module is implemented to determine a network representation from machine learning applied to the higher-order network embeddings.
16. In a digital medium environment for higher-order network embedding, a method implemented by at least one computing device, the method comprising: counting a frequency of k-vertex motifs in a graph that represents a network with nodes of the graph each representing an entity in the network; deriving motif-based matrices from the frequency of each of the k-vertex motifs in the graph; receiving an input parameter that designates a number of steps used to derive k-step motif-based matrices from the frequency of each of the k-vertex motifs; determining a higher-order network embedding for each of the nodes in the graph from each of the k-step motif-based matrices; generating a network model based on connectivity patterns of the network derived from the higher-order network embeddings of the nodes in the graph; and modeling roles of the entities in the network based on the network model.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, further comprising concatenating the higher-order network embeddings into a matrix that represents dependencies and the connectivity patterns among the nodes and the node associations.
18. The method as recited in claim 16, further comprising determining a motif matrix function that represents a mapping of the nodes to d-dimensional features represented by the higher-order network embeddings.
19. The method as recited in claim 16, further comprising determining a joint higher-order network embedding from the matrix, the joint higher-order network embedding representing subgraph patterns of subgraphs of the network.
20. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the deriving the motif-based matrices comprises using normalized motif Laplacian attribute diffusion to diffuse attributes that are incorporated into the higher-order network embeddings.
</claims>
</document>
