<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/335,G06F16/35,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CORTICAL.IO
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE SOUSA WEBBER, FRANCISCO EDUARDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56557699
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for identifying a level of similarity between a filtering criterion and a data item within a set of streamed documents
</title>

<abstract>
A method enables identification of a similarity level between a user-provided data item and a data item within a set of data documents. The method includes a representation generator determining, for each term in an enumeration of terms, occurrence information. The representation generator generates, for each term, a sparse distributed representation (SDR) using the occurrence information. The method includes receiving, by a filtering module, a filtering criterion. The method includes generating, by the representation generator, for the filtering criterion, at least one SDR. The method includes generating, by the representation generator, for a first of a plurality of streamed documents received from a data source, a compound SDR. The method includes determining, by a similarity engine executing on the second computing device, a distance between the filtering criterion SDR and the generated compound SDR. The method includes acting on the first streamed document, based upon the determined distance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for identifying a level of similarity between a user provided data item and a data item within a set of data documents, the method comprising: clustering, by a reference map generator executing on a first computing device, in a two-dimensional metric space, a set of data documents selected according to at least one criterion, generating a semantic map; associating, by the semantic map, a coordinate pair with each data document of the set of data documents; generating, by a parser executing on the first computing device, an enumeration of terms occurring in the set of data documents; determining, by a representation generator executing on the first computing device, for each term in the enumeration, occurrence information including: (i) a number of data documents in which the term occurs, (ii) a number of occurrences of the term in each data document, and (iii) the coordinate pair associated with each data document in which the term occurs; generating, by the representation generator, for each term in the enumeration, a sparse distributed representation (SDR) using the occurrence information; storing, in an SDR database, each of the generated SDRs; receiving, by a filtering module executing on a second computing device and in communication with the first computing device, from a third computing device, a filtering criterion; generating, by the representation generator, for the filtering criterion, at least one SDR, wherein generating further comprises: determining, by the representation generator, that the filtering, criterion is not an SDR stored in the SDR database: and generating. by the representation generator, the at least one SDR for the filtering criterion, based upon the determining that the filtering criterion is not an SDR; receiving, by the filtering module, a first plurality of streamed documents from a third-party data source specified by a user of the third computing device; generating, by the representation generator, for a first document in the first plurality of streamed documents, a compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents, before receiving, by the filtering module, a second document in the first plurality of streamed documents; determining, by a similarity engine executing on the second computing device, a distance between the filtering criterion SDR and the generated compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents; and acting, by the filtering module, on the first of the first plurality of streamed documents, based upon the determined distance, wherein acting further comprises: adding the first document in the first plurality of streamed. documents to a sub-stream of streamed documents stored in a database accessible by a client agent executing on the third computing device; and responding to a polling request from the client agent by transmitting the sub-stream to the client agent.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the filtering criterion, further comprises receiving filtering criterion including at least one brand-related term.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the filtering criterion, further comprises receiving filtering criterion including at least one security-related term.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the filtering criterion, further comprises receiving filtering criterion including at least one virus signature.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the filtering criterion, further comprises receiving filtering criterion including at least one SDR.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating, for the filtering criterion, the SDR, further comprises determining not to generate the SDR based upon a determination that the filtering criterion is an SDR.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the first plurality of streamed documents further comprises receiving, by the filtering module, a first plurality of social media text documents.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving, by the filtering module, the first plurality of streamed documents further comprises receiving, by the filtering module, a first plurality of network packets.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein acting further comprises forwarding, by the filtering module, to the third computing device, the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein acting further comprises determining, by the filtering module, not to forward the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents to the third computing device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein acting further comprises determining, by the filtering module, whether to transmit an alert to the third computing device, based upon the determined distance.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising determining, by the filtering module, whether to transmit an alert to the third computing device, based upon the determined distance and the filtering criterion.
13. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, by the filtering module, a second plurality of streamed documents from a second data source; generating, for a first document in the second plurality of streamed documents, a compound SDR; determining, by the similarity engine, a distance between the generated compound SDR for the first document in the second plurality of streamed documents and the generated compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents; and determining, by the filtering module, whether to forward, to the third computing device, the first document in the second plurality of streamed documents, based upon the determined distance between the generated compound SDR for the first document in the second plurality of streamed documents and the generated compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the enumeration of terms further comprises generating an enumeration of virus signatures occurring in the set of data documents.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the occurrence information further comprises determining, for each virus signature in the enumeration, occurrence information including: (i) a number of data documents in which the virus signature occurs, (ii) a number of occurrences of the virus signature in each data document, and (iii) the coordinate pair associated with each data document in which the virus signature occurs.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein generating, for each term in the enumeration, the SDR further comprises generating, for each virus signature in the enumeration, the SDR.
17. The method of claim 14 further comprising decomposing each virus signature in the enumeration into a plurality of sub-units, based upon a protocol.
18. The method of claim 17 further comprising decomposing each subunit in the enumeration into at least one value.
19. The method of claim 18 further comprising determining, for each value of each of the plurality of sub-units of the virus signature in the enumeration, occurrence information including: (i) a number of data documents in which the value occurs, (ii) a number of occurrences of the value in each data document, and (iii) the coordinate pair associated with each data document in which the value occurs.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein generating, for each term in the enumeration, the SDR further comprises generating, for each value in the enumeration, the SDR.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein generating, for each term in the enumeration, the SDR further comprises generating, for each sub-unit in the enumeration, the SDR.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein generating, for each term in the enumeration, the SDR further comprises generating a compound SDR for each virus signature in the SDR, based on the generated sub-unit SDRs.
23. The method of claim 1, wherein acting further comprises forwarding the first of the plurality of streamed documents to a client agent executing on the third computing device.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the client agent executes on a router.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the client agent executes on a web server.
26. The method of claim 23, wherein the client agent executes on a network device.
27. A computer-implemented method for identifying a level of similarity between a user provided data item and a data item within a set of data documents, the method comprising: clustering, by a reference map generator executing on a first computing device, in a two-dimensional metric space, a set of data documents selected according to at least one criterion, generating a semantic map; associating, by the semantic map, a coordinate pair with each data document of the set of data documents; generating, by a parser executing on the first computing device, an enumeration of terms occurring in the set of data documents; determining, by a representation generator executing on the first computing device, for each term in the enumeration, occurrence information including: (i) a number of data documents in which the term occurs, (ii) a number of occurrences of the term in each data document, and (iii) the coordinate pair associated with each data document in which the term occurs; generating, by the representation generator, for each term in the enumeration, a sparse distributed representation (SDR) using the occurrence information; storing, in an SDR database, each of the generated SDRs; receiving, by a filtering module executing on a second computing device and in communication with the first computing device, from a third computing device, a filtering criterion including an SDR for the filtering criterion; receiving, by the filtering module, a first plurality of streamed documents from a third-party data source specified by a user of the third computing device; generating, by the representation generator, for a first document in the first plurality of streamed documents, a compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents, before receiving, by the filtering module, a second document in the first plurality of streamed documents; determining, by a similarity engine executing on the second computing device, a distance between the received SDR for the filtering criterion and the generated compound SDR for the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents; and acting, by the filtering module, on the first of the first plurality of streamed documents, based upon the determined distance, wherein acting further comprises: adding the first document in the first plurality of streamed documents to a sub-stream of streamed documents stored in a database accessible by a client agent executing on the third computing device; and responding to a polling request from the client agent by transmitting the sub-stream to the client agent.
</claims>
</document>
