<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F9/44,G06F9/451,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETSUITE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CLARK, SIMON
MERCIER-GENEST, MARILOU
PARTRIDGE, AUSTIN
TANWIR, UMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59559647
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method to generate interactive user interface for visualizing and navigating data or information
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, apparatuses, and methods for visualizing, navigating within, and interacting with data, typically organizational related data. In one embodiment, the invention may be implemented in conjunction with a business data processing system or platform. Such a system or platform may be a multi-tenant business data processing system that provides data storage and data processing capabilities for users. The data stored and/or processed may include one or more of ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), CRM (Customer Relationship Management), HR/HCM (Human Resources/Human Capital Management), or financial business-related data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-tenant data processing system, comprising: one or more business related data processing applications installed in the system and accessible by a plurality of tenants of the multi-tenant data processing system, wherein each tenant is provided an individual instantiation of the data processing applications; an electronic data storage element coupled to the one or more business related data processing applications; an electronic processor configured to execute computer-executable instructions; a non-transitory computer-readable medium operably connected to the processor and storing computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the system to instantiate an objects browser, the objects browser operating to render a visualization of a plurality of objects, wherein the rendering the visualization includes (i) displaying one or more interconnections of an employee object with one or more non-employee objects in the plurality of objects, and (ii) determining how to display each of the plurality of objects and each of the interconnections in relation to other of the plurality of objects, based on an association with the employee object; determine a set of data contained in the electronic data storage element to be used for generating an initial visualization based at least in part on one or more data fields shared between individual entries of the set of data; cause the objects browser to render the initial visualization; receive an input indicative of an operation that the objects browser is to perform on the initial visualization; determine a context indicated by the input; access data associated with an entity in the context; and cause the objects browser to render a further visualization of one or more objects and one or more non-hierarchical interconnections between the objects contained in the accessed data, wherein the non-hierarchical interconnections are displayed in a non-hierarchical manner.
2. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more business related data processing applications include an enterprise resource management (ERP) application, a customer relationship management (CRM), a human capital management (HCM) application, or an eCommerce application.
3. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein the set of data to be used for generating the initial visualization is determined at least in part by a role or function of a user within the organization.
4. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein: the set of data to be used for generating the initial visualization is determined at least in part by the context; and the context is determined by a function performed by an application being accessed by the user.
5. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein: the context is maintained by setting a flag to indicate a current context; the context is determined for the initial visualization by a role of a user; the input is a selection of an object representing some aspect of the employee object; and the context is determined for the further visualization from the selected aspect.
6. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein determining how to display each of the plurality of objects in relation to other of the plurality of objects further comprises rendering each object based on a default visualization structure.
7. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein determining how to display each of the plurality of objects in relation to other of the plurality of objects further comprises rendering each object based on a visualization structure specified by the user.
8. The multi-tenant data processing system of claim 1, wherein the operation that the user requests the objects browser to perform on the initial visualization is operation, wherein the zoom operation further causes a different attribute of one or more of the plurality of objects to be displayed.
9. A system for visualizing data and the relationships between data, the system comprising: a data store that contains interconnected data objects related to an organization; a processor configured to execute computer-executable instructions; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium operably connected to the processor via a communication path and storing computer-executable instructions that when executed by at least the processor cause the processor to: render a visualization of a set of the interconnected data objects, wherein the rendering includes (i) displaying one or more interconnections of an employee object with one or more non-employee objects in the set with one or more other objects in the set, and (ii) determining how to display each object in the set and each interconnection between objects in the set in relation to each other object in the set based on an association with the employee object; in response to receiving an input regarding an attribute of the object, (i) determine a context indicated by the input, and (ii) request that additional data be retrieved from the data store, wherein the additional data includes non-hierarchical interconnections between one or more additional objects, and is selected based at least in part on the attribute and the context; once the additional data is received, parse the additional data to identify one or more additional data objects and one or more additional interconnections associated with any of the one or more additional data objects; and modify the visualization to display the additional data objects and additional interconnections in relation to one or more objects in the set in a non-hierarchical manner.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the non-hierarchical interconnections of a data object with an other data object are represented by a unique identifier of the other data object.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: in response to the input of a keyword search, (i) identify a subset of objects of the set of the interconnected data objects that match the keyword search; and (ii) modify the visualization to highlight each object of the subset of objects.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the input is a zoom operation, wherein the zoom operation further causes a different attribute of one or more of the plurality of objects to be displayed.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the input is a focus operation, wherein the focus operation shows all items directly related to the object, and further causes the visualization to retain a central focus on the object, while placing other objects related to the object in a background view.
14. A computer-implemented method for generating a user interface, the method comprising: rendering a visualization of a set of interconnected data objects, wherein the rendering includes (i) displaying one or more interconnections of an employee object with one or more non-employee objects in the set with one or more other objects in the set, and (ii) determining how to display each object in the set and each interconnection between objects in the set in relation to each other object in the set based on an association with the employee object; in response to receiving an input regarding an attribute of the object, (i) determining a context indicated by the input, and (ii) requesting that additional data be retrieved from a data store, wherein the additional data includes non-hierarchical interconnections between one or more additional objects, and is selected based at least in part on the attribute and the context; after the additional data is received, parsing the additional data to identify one or more additional data objects and one or more additional interconnections associated with any of the one or more additional data objects; and modifying the visualization to display the additional data objects and additional interconnections in relation to one or more objects in the set in a non-hierarchical manner.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising receiving an additional input that includes a credential of a user of the user interface, wherein the additional data is further selected based at least in part on the credential.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the non-hierarchical interconnections of a data object with an other data object are represented by a unique identifier of the other data object.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the unique identifier of the other data object is stored in the data store in a hash table associating a unique identifier of the data object with the unique identifier of the other data object.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the interconnections of a data object with other data objects are stored in a field on the data object, keyed first on the type of other data object and then on the unique identifier of each other data object.
19. The method of claim 14, further comprising specifying a level of granularity for the additional data, wherein the additional data is further selected based at least in part on the level of granularity.
20. The method of claim 14, further comprising specifying a filter, wherein the additional data is further selected based at least in part on the filter.
</claims>
</document>
