<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G11C11/56,G11C16/04,G11C16/26,G11C29/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, DONG GI
RO, SEUNG KYUNG
NO, HYE RY
LIM, DONG HOO
SONG, JIN BAEK
LEE, HEE WON
OH, HYUN KO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65720220
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Pre-processing system, method processing characteristic data, and memory control system using same
</title>

<abstract>
A characteristic data pre-processing system includes a data acquisition device that collects characteristic data including first cell distribution data defined according to first default read levels, and second cell distribution data defined according to second default read levels, a data pre-processing apparatus that merges the first cell distribution data and the second cell distribution data according crop ranges to generate training data, wherein the crop ranges are defined according to the first default levels and the second default levels, and a database that stores the training data communicated from the data pre-processing apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A characteristic data pre-processing system, comprising: a data acquisition device that collects characteristic data including first cell distribution data defined according to first default read levels, and second cell distribution data defined according to second default read levels; a data pre-processing apparatus that merges the first cell distribution data and the second cell distribution data according crop ranges to generate training data, wherein the crop ranges are defined according to the first default levels and the second default levels; and a database that stores the training data communicated from the data pre-processing apparatus.
2. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 1, wherein a number of first default levels, a number of second default levels, a number of first cell distribution data, and a number of second cell distribution data are respectively equal to an integer value of 'm'.
3. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 1, wherein the first cell distribution data is defined using a first resolution and the second cell distribution data is defined using a second resolution different from the first resolution, and the data pre-processing apparatus further comprises: an average unpooling module that equalizes the first resolution of the first cell distribution data and the second resolution of the second cell distribution data.
4. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 3, wherein the average unpooling module equalizes the first resolution of the first cell distribution data and the second resolution of the second cell distribution data into a third resolution, and the third resolution is a common divisor of the first and second resolutions.
5. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 4, wherein the average unpooling module uniformly divides a cell count corresponding to the first resolution of the first cell distribution data into a cell count corresponding to the third resolution.
6. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 1, wherein the data pre-processing apparatus further comprises a data cleaning module that removes meaningless data from the training data before communicating the training data to the database.
7. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 2, where 'm' is equal to 2N−1, and 'N' is a number of read data bits of a memory device providing the characteristic data.
8. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 7, wherein the memory device is a NAND flash memory device, N=3, and each of the first default read levels and second default read levels respectively includes first to seventh sequentially increasing default read levels.
9. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 8, wherein the m crop ranges include first to seventh crop ranges, the first, second and third crop ranges are based on the first, second and third read levels, respectively, the fifth, sixth and seventh crop ranges are based on the fifth, sixth and seventh read levels, respectively, and the fourth, fifth and sixth crop ranges are based on the same read level.
10. The characteristic data pre-processing system of claim 9, wherein the fourth and sixth crop ranges are based on the sixth read level.
11. A characteristic data pre-processing apparatus, comprising: a data pre-processing system that receives m first cell distribution data derived from a first NAND flash memory using a first resolution and m second cell distribution data derived from a second NAND flash memory using a second resolution different from the first resolution, where 'm' is equal to 2N−1 and N is an integer equal to a number of read data bits for each of the first NAND flash memory and the second NAND flash memory, wherein the data pre-processing apparatus comprises: an average unpooling module that equalizes the first and second resolutions; and a data merging module that merges the first and second cell distribution data according to m crop ranges to generate corresponding training data.
12. The characteristic data pre-processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the average unpooling module equalizes the first resolution and the second resolution using a third resolution smaller than either one of the first and second resolutions.
13. The characteristic data pre-processing apparatus of claim 11, further comprising: a data cleaning module that removes meaningless data from the training data.
14. The characteristic data pre-processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the m crop ranges are defined according to m default read levels for the first and second cell distribution data.
15. The characteristic data pre-processing apparatus of claim 14, wherein the m crop ranges include 1st to m-th crop ranges, and sizes of the k-th crop range are equal to each other between the first and second cell distribution data, where 'k' is an integer.
16. A memory control system, comprising: a data acquisition device collecting a plurality of characteristic data including first and second cell distribution data; a data pre-processing apparatus merging the first and second cell distribution data according to predetermined crop ranges to generate training data; a database including the training data; and a machine learning model learning the training data to derive a control coefficient.
17. The memory control system of claim 16, wherein the machine learning model includes: an algorithm selection module selecting an appropriate algorithm by analyzing the plurality of characteristic data; an attribute selection module selecting a core attribute of the characteristic data; and a learning model constructing a prediction model using the algorithm and the core attribute.
18. The memory control system of claim 17, wherein the machine learning model clusters the plurality of characteristic data and classifies the clustered characteristic data into a plurality of classes.
19. The memory control system of claim 17, wherein the attribute selection module selects the core attribute through correlation analysis of attributes of the characteristic data and an optimum read level.
20. The memory control system of claim 19, wherein the prediction model derives an independent control coefficient for each of the crop ranges.
</claims>
</document>
