<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREWER, GARY
DVORAK, MARKELL J
HILL, MIRANDA C.
VLTAVSKY, DOMINIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63963959
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wearable device-based user authentication
</title>

<abstract>
Various systems and methods for authenticating a user are described herein. A system comprises a processor subsystem; and a memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor subsystem, cause the processor subsystem to: receive at a server from a first user device, a first authentication token; receive at the server from a second user device, a second authentication token; authenticate the user based on the first and second authentication tokens; and establish a communication session from the server to the first user device when the user is authenticated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor subsystem; and a memory including instructions, which when executed by the processor subsystem, cause the processor subsystem to: receive at a server from a first user device, a first authentication token; receive at the server from a second user device, a second authentication token, the second authentication token being different than the first authentication token, wherein the first user device and the second user device are registered to the user as part of a user account, the user account configured to prevent deletion of a registered device of a user account if deleting the registered devices decreases a total number of registered devices below a minimum threshold; authenticate, at the server, the user based on the first and second authentication tokens; and establish a communication session from the server to the first user device when the user is authenticated based on the received first and second authentication tokens.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, which when executed by the processor subsystem, further cause the processor subsystem to: receive at the server from the first user device, a username and password; and wherein the user is authenticated based on the username and password with the first and second authentication tokens.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein an amount of time between receipt of the first and second authentication tokens is used to authenticate the user.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, which when executed by the processor subsystem, further cause the processor subsystem to: receive a third authentication token, the third authentication token associated with a third user device; and authenticate, at the server, the user based on the first, second, and third authentication tokens.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first authentication token comprises a knowledge-factor token indicating that the user provided a correct knowledge-based authentication factor to the first user device and wherein the knowledge-based authentication factor is registered to the first user device in the user account.
6. A method comprising: receiving at a server from a first user device, a first authentication token; receiving at the server from a second user device, a second authentication token, the second authentication token being different than the first authentication token, wherein the first and second user device are registered to the user as part of a user account the user account configured to prevent deletion of a registered device of a user account if deleting the registered devices decreases a total number of registered devices below a minimum threshold; authenticating, at the server, the user based on the first and second authentication tokens; and establishing a communication session from the server to the first user device when the user is authenticated based on the received first and second authentication tokens.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising receiving at the server from the first user device, a username and password; and wherein the user is authenticated based on the username and password with the first and second authentication tokens.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein an amount of time between receipt of the first and second authentication tokens is used to authenticate the user.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising receiving a third authentication token, the third authentication token associated with a third user device; and authenticating, at the server, the user based on the first, second, and third authentication tokens.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the first authentication token comprises a knowledge-factor token indicating that the user provided a correct knowledge-based authentication factor to the first user device and wherein the knowledge-based authentication factor is registered to the first user device in the user account.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions, which when executed by at least one processor, configure the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at a server from a first user device, a first authentication token; receiving at the server from a second user device, a second authentication token, the second authentication token being different than the first authentication token, wherein the first and second user device are registered to the user as part of a user account, the user account configured to prevent deletion of a registered device of a user account if deleting the registered devices decreases a total number of registered devices below a minimum threshold; authenticating, at the server, the user based on the first and second authentication tokens; and establishing a communication session from the server to the first user device when the user is authenticated based on the received first and second authentication tokens.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: receiving at the server from the first user device, a username and password; and wherein the user is authenticated based on the username and password with the first and second authentication tokens.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein an amount of time between receipt of the first and second authentication tokens is used to authenticate the user.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, the operations further comprising: receiving a third authentication token, the third authentication token associated with a third user device; and authenticating, at the server, the user based on the first, second, and third authentication tokens.
</claims>
</document>
