<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/34,G06F3/01,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0488,G06F3/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IMMERSIVE SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GALKIN, MAKSIM
SIMMONS, JASON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65359880
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for representing data, media, and time using spatial levels of detail in 2D and 3D digital applications
</title>

<abstract>
Approaches provide for navigating or otherwise interacting with content in response to input from a user, including voice inputs, device inputs, gesture inputs, among other such inputs such that a user can quickly and easily navigate to different levels of detail of content. This can include, for example, presenting content (e.g., images, multimedia, text, etc.) in a particular layout, and/or highlighting, emphasizing, animating, or otherwise altering in appearance, and/or arrangement of the interface elements used to present the content based on a current level of detail, where the current level of detail can be determined by data selection criteria associated with a magnification level and other such data. As a user interacts with the computing device, for example, by providing a zoom input, values of the selection criteria can be updated, which can be used to filter and/or select content for presentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a computing device processor; and a memory device including instructions that, when executed by the computing device processor, enables the computing system to: obtain content from a content provider, the content capable of being displayed for a plurality of presentation levels, individual presentation levels of the plurality of presentation levels associated with a content type; enable for the individual content types, a function, respective functions operable to, based on a magnification level, set values for data selection criteria used to select portions of the content; receive an input that indicates the magnification level for a first portion of the content being displayed on a display screen of a computing device, the magnification level being a value that quantifies an amount of zoom, the first portion of the content being displayed for a first presentation level and associated with a first content type, the content type associated with a first function; use the first function to set first values for a first set of data selection criteria; determine a second portion of the content of a second content type based on the first values, the second content type associated with a second function; use the second function to set second values for a second set of data selection criteria; determine a third portion of the content of a third content type based on the second values, the third content type associated with a third function, wherein the third function fails to determine an additional portion of the content for the magnification level, and wherein the first content type, the second content type, and the third content type are different content types; and generate a presentation of the first portion of the content and the second portion of the content at a second presentation level.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device processor, further enables the computing system to: receive a change in the magnification level; and determine updated content for display based on the change in the magnification level and at least one function of a plurality of functions.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device processor, further enables the computing system to: obtain additional input data; and assign weights to the first function to generate a weighted function, the weighted function operable to determine tailored content.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device processor, further enables the computing system to: use mapping information to associate the first function with at least one content type.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of functions is organized in one of a hierarchical tree structure or a series structure, and wherein nodes in the hierarchical tree structure correspond to portions of the content and individual levels of the hierarchical tree structure correspond to content of a particular content type.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the input is at least one of a touch-based input received at a display, an audio input received from a user, a gaze input detected from a gaze direction of a user, or a gesture input received from the user.
7. The computing system of claim 6, wherein the audio input is associated with an audible command to alter the magnification level.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the instructions, when executed by the computing device processor, further enables the computing system to: detect two inputs at the display screen at substantially a same time for initial locations, wherein a change in a relative location between the two inputs corresponds to the magnification level.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the input is associated with one of user preference input data, user device location input data, user device screen dimension input data, user device screen orientation input data, or user device view coordinate input data.
10. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining content from a content provider, the content capable of being displayed for a plurality of presentation levels, individual presentation levels of the plurality of presentation levels associated with a content type; enable for the individual content types, a function, respective functions operable to, based on a magnification level, set values for data selection criteria used to select portions of the content; receiving an input that indicates the magnification level for a first portion of the content being displayed on a display screen of a computing device, the magnification level being a value that quantifies an amount of zoom, the first portion of the content being displayed for a first presentation level and associated with a first content type, the content type associated with a first function; using the first function to set first values for a first set of data selection criteria; determine a second portion of the content of a second content type based on the first values, the second content type associated with a second function; using the second function to set second values for a second set of data selection criteria; determining a third portion of the content of a third content type based on the second values, the third content type associated with a third function, wherein the third function fails to determine an additional portion of the content for the magnification level, and wherein the first content type, the second content type, and the third content type are different content types; and generating a presentation of the first portion of the content and the second portion of the content at a second presentation level.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: obtaining weighting data; and assigning weights to the first function to generate a weighted function based on the weighting data, the weighted function operable to tailor at least the first portion of the content.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: use mapping information to associate the first function with at least one content type.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the input is at least one of a touch-based input received at a display, an audio input received from a user, a gaze input detected from a gaze direction of a user, or a gesture input received from the user, and wherein the audio input is associated with an audible command to alter the magnification level.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving a change in the magnification level; and determining updated content for display based on the change in the magnification level.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: detecting two inputs at the display screen at substantially a same time for initial locations, wherein a change in a relative location between the two inputs corresponds to the magnification level.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, causes the computing system to: obtain content from a content provider, the content capable of being displayed for a plurality of presentation levels, individual presentation levels of the plurality of presentation levels associated with a content type; enable for the individual content types, a function, respective functions operable to, based on a magnification level, set values for data selection criteria used to select portions of the content; receive an input that indicates the magnification level for a first portion of the content being displayed on a display screen of a computing device, the magnification level being a value that quantifies an amount of zoom, the first portion of the content being displayed for a first presentation level and associated with a first content type, the content type associated with a first function; use the first function to set first values for a first set of data selection criteria; determine a second portion of the content of a second content type based on the first values, the second content type associated with a second function; use the second function to set second values for a second set of data selection criteria; determine a third portion of the content of a third content type based on the second values, the third content type associated with a third function, wherein the third function fails to determine an additional portion of the content for the magnification level, and wherein the first content type, the second content type, and the third content type are different content types; and generate a presentation of the first portion of the content and the second portion of the content at a second presentation level.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further enables the computing system to: obtain weighting data; and assign weights to the first function to generate a weighted function based on the weighting data, the weighted function operable to tailor at least the first portion of the content.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further enables the computing system to: receive a change in the magnification level; and determine updated content for display based on the change in the magnification level.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further enables the computing system to: use mapping information to associate the first function with at least one content type.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the input is at least one of a touch-based input received at a display, an audio input received from a user, a gaze input detected from a gaze direction of a user, or a gesture input received from the user, and wherein the audio input is associated with an audible command to alter the magnification level.
</claims>
</document>
