<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/01,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T19/00,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GATSON, MICHAEL S.
YILDIZ, YAGIZ CAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73554826
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic peripheral pairing with hand assignments in virtual, augmented, and mixed reality (xR) applications
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of systems and methods for automatic peripheral pairing with hand assignments in virtual, augmented, or mixed reality (xR) applications are described. In some embodiments, an Information Handling System (IHS) may include a processor and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory having program instructions stored thereon that, upon execution, cause the IHS to: receive one or more Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) landmarks corresponding to a peripheral device; transmit a pairing code to the peripheral device via a first communication channel; in response to activation of a pairing button, receive an indication of the pairing code from the peripheral device via a second communication channel; and pair the peripheral device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An Information Handling System (IHS), comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory having program instructions stored thereon that, upon execution, cause the IHS to: receive one or more Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) landmarks corresponding to a peripheral device from a Head-Mounted Device (HMD) worn by a user; transmit a pairing code to the peripheral device via a first communication channel; in response to activation of a pairing button, receive an indication of the pairing code from the peripheral device via a second communication channel; pair the peripheral device to the HMD; split a Field-of-View (FOV) into a left side and a right side; and at least one of: in response to the one or more SLAM landmarks being located on the left side, assign the peripheral device to the user's left hand; or in response to the one or more SLAM landmarks being located on the right side, assign the peripheral device to the user's right hand.
2. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the IHS to, in response to a determination that the HMD is tilted to the right, increase the right side with respect to the left side.
3. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the IHS to, or in response to a determination that the HMD is tilted to the left, increase the left side with respect to the right side.
4. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the IHS to perform a gesture or object recognition operation upon a user's hand.
5. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the first communication channel is an Infra-Red (IR) channel, and wherein the second communication channel is a Radio Frequency (RF) communication channel.
6. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the IHS to: receive one or more other SLAM landmarks corresponding to another peripheral device; and at least one of: determine that the other peripheral device belongs to the user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD being below a first threshold; or determine that the other peripheral device belongs to another user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD being above a second threshold.
7. The IHS of claim 1, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the IHS to: receive one or more other SLAM landmarks corresponding to another peripheral device; and determine whether the other peripheral device belongs to the user based upon a comparison between a Kalman Gain of the one or more SLAM landmarks and another Kalman Gain of the other one or more SLAM landmarks.
8. A hardware memory having program instructions stored thereon that, upon execution by a processor of a Head-Mounted Device (HMD) worn by a user, cause the HMD to: in response to activation of a pairing button, detect one or more Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) landmarks corresponding to a peripheral device; receive a pairing code from the peripheral device via a first communication channel; transmit an indication of the pairing code to the peripheral device via a second communication channel; pair the peripheral device to the HMD; split a Field-of-View (FOV) into a left side and a right side; and at least one of: in response to the one or more SLAM landmarks being located on the left side, assign the peripheral device to the user's left hand; or in response to the one or more SLAM landmarks being located on the right side, assign the peripheral device to the user's right hand.
9. The hardware memory of claim 8, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the HMD to, in response to a determination that the user is looking to the right, increase the right side with respect to the left side.
10. The hardware memory of claim 8, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the HMD to, in response to a determination that the user is looking to the left, increase the left side with respect to the right side.
11. The hardware memory of claim 8, wherein the first communication channel is an Infra-Red (IR) channel, and wherein the second communication channel is a Radio Frequency (RF) communication channel.
12. The hardware memory of claim 8, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the HMD to: detect one or more other SLAM landmarks corresponding to another peripheral device; and determine that the other peripheral device belongs to another user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD being above a selected threshold.
13. The hardware memory of claim 12, wherein the program instructions, upon execution, further cause the HMD to determine that the other peripheral device has been handed from the other user to the user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD decreasing below another selected threshold.
14. A method, comprising: detecting, by an Information Handling System (IHS), one or more Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) landmarks corresponding to a peripheral device; in response to the detection, firstly exchanging a pairing code with the peripheral device via a first communication channel; in response to a successful first exchange, secondly exchanging an indication of the pairing code with the peripheral device via a second communication channel; in response to a successful second exchange, pairing the peripheral device with the IHS; assigning the peripheral device to a user; detecting, by the IHS, one or more other SLAM landmarks corresponding to another peripheral device; in response to the detection, thirdly exchanging another pairing code with the other peripheral device; in response to a successful third exchange, pairing the other peripheral device with the IHS; and assigning the other peripheral device to another user.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the peripheral device comprises a controller or joystick, wherein the first communication channel is an Infra-Red (IR) channel, and wherein the second communication channel is a Radio Frequency (RF) communication channel.
16. An Information Handling System (IHS), comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory having program instructions stored thereon that, upon execution, cause the IHS to: receive one or more Simultaneous Localization and Mapping (SLAM) landmarks corresponding to a peripheral device; transmit a pairing code to the peripheral device via a first communication channel; in response to activation of a pairing button, receive an indication of the pairing code from the peripheral device via a second communication channel; pair the peripheral device; receive one or more other SLAM landmarks corresponding to another peripheral device; and at least one of: determine that the other peripheral device belongs to the user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD being below a first threshold; determine whether the other peripheral device belongs to the user based upon a comparison between a Kalman Gain of the one or more SLAM landmarks and another Kalman Gain of the other one or more SLAM landmarks; or determine that the other peripheral device belongs to another user based upon a distance between the other SLAM landmarks and the HMD being above a second threshold.
</claims>
</document>
