<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B43/16,E21B43/24,E21B43/26,E21B49/00,G05B13/02,G05B13/04,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
IYER, NARESH SUNDARAM
MURRELL, GLEN RICHARD
KLENNER, ROBERT CARL LLOYD
AZZARO, STEVEN HECTOR
GAO, PANQING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58192414
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating a schedule to extract a resource fluid from a reservoir
</title>

<abstract>
System includes one or more processors that are configured to perform iterations of the following until a predetermined condition is satisfied. The one or more processors are configured to select a modified trial schedule. The modified trial schedule is selected based on initial fluid-extraction data and initial trial schedules and, if available, prior modified trial schedules and prior modified fluid-extraction data from prior iterations. The one or more processors are configured to receive modified fluid-extraction data generated by execution of the modified trial schedule with a designated model of the reservoir. The one or more processors are also configured to update the surrogate model with the modified fluid-extraction data and the modified trial schedule. For at least a plurality of the iterations, the modified trial schedule is selected, at least in part, to reduce uncertainty in a sample space as characterized by the surrogate model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a control system including one or more processors that are configured to: obtain resource extraction parameters for extracting a resource fluid from a reservoir by providing a working fluid into the reservoir, at least one of the resource extraction parameters being based on a geological constraint of the reservoir; select a set of initial trial schedules, the initial trial schedules having different values of the resource extraction parameters for providing the working fluid into the reservoir, the initial trial schedules being distributed with respect to one another in a sample space; receive initial fluid-extraction data, the initial fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the initial trial schedules with a designated model of the reservoir; and generate a surrogate model based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; wherein the one or more processors are configured to perform iterations of the following until a predetermined condition is satisfied: select a modified trial schedule based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; receive modified fluid-extraction data, the modified fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the modified trial schedule with the designated model of the reservoir; and update the surrogate model with the modified fluid-extraction data and the modified trial schedule; wherein, for at least a plurality of the iterations, the modified trial schedule is selected, at least in part, to reduce uncertainty in the sample space as characterized by the surrogate model, wherein the control system communicates with at least one pump controller, wherein the at least one pump controller controls the injection of the fluid into the reservoir according to the modified trial schedule.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using active learning techniques from machine learning.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using Bayesian optimization of Gaussian Process Regression surrogates.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to improve one or more metrics-of-interest in extracting the resource fluid from the reservoir.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to increase a net present value of extracting the resource liquid from the reservoir.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the resource extraction parameters characterize how the working fluid is provided into the reservoir while extracting the resource liquid.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the predetermined condition is satisfied when at least one of: (a) a predetermined time elapses; (b) a metric-of-interest obtained by one of the trial schedules passes a threshold value; (c) respective values of a metric-of-interest that are obtained by the two trial schedules that were last executed are substantially equal; (d) a result obtained from a multi-variable function that includes variables for multiple metrics-of-interest satisfies a designated threshold; or (e) a total number of trial schedules have been executed or a total number of iterations have been executed.
8. A method comprising: obtaining resource extraction parameters for extracting a resource fluid from a reservoir by providing a working fluid into the reservoir, at least one of the resource extraction parameters being based on a geological constraint of the reservoir; selecting a set of initial trial schedules, the initial trial schedules having different values of the resource extraction parameters for providing the working fluid into the reservoir, the initial trial schedules being distributed with respect to one another in a sample space; and receiving initial fluid-extraction data, the initial fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the initial trial schedules with a designated model of the reservoir; and generating a surrogate model based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; wherein the method further comprises performing a plurality of iterations of the following until a predetermined condition is satisfied: selecting a modified trial schedule based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; receiving modified fluid-extraction data, the modified fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the modified trial schedule using the designated model of the reservoir; and update the surrogate model with the modified fluid-extraction data and the modified trial schedule; wherein, for at least a plurality of the iterations, the modified trial schedule is selected, at least in part, to reduce uncertainty in the sample space as characterized by the surrogate model, wherein at least one pump controller is controlled based at least in part on the modified trial schedule to control the injection of the fluid into the reservoir.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using active learning techniques from machine learning.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using Bayesian optimization of Gaussian Process Regression surrogates.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to improve one or more metrics-of-interest in extracting the resource fluid from the reservoir.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to increase a net present value of extracting the resource liquid from the reservoir.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the resource extraction parameters characterize how the working fluid is provided into the reservoir while extracting the resource liquid.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the predetermined condition is satisfied when at least one of: (a) a predetermined time elapses; (b) a metric-of-interest obtained by one of the trial schedules passes a threshold value; (c) respective values of a metric-of-interest that are obtained by the two trial schedules that were last executed are substantially equal; (d) a result obtained from a multi-variable function that includes variables for multiple metrics-of-interest satisfies a designated threshold; or (e) a total number of trial schedules have been executed or a total number of iterations have been executed.
15. The method of claim 8, further comprising extracting liquid from the reservoir based on the last trial schedule that was executed when the predetermined condition was met or the trial schedule that was executed immediately before the last trial schedule.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein extracting the resource liquid from the reservoir includes using one of: (a) a water-alternating-gas process; (b) a fracking process; or (c) a steam process.
17. A tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium comprising one or more programmed instructions configured to direct one or more processors to: obtain resource extraction parameters for extracting a resource fluid from a reservoir by providing a working fluid into the reservoir, at least one of the resource extraction parameters being based on a geological constraint of the reservoir; select a set of initial trial schedules, the initial trial schedules having different values of the resource extraction parameters for providing the working fluid into the reservoir, the initial trial schedules being distributed with respect to one another in a sample space; and receive initial fluid-extraction data, the initial fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the initial trial schedules with a designated model of the reservoir; and generate a surrogate model based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; wherein the programmed instructions are configured to direct the one or more processors to perform a plurality of iterations of the following until a predetermined condition is satisfied: select a modified trial schedule based on the initial fluid-extraction data and the initial trial schedules; receive modified fluid-extraction data, the modified fluid-extraction data being generated by execution of the modified trial schedule with the designated model of the reservoir; and update the surrogate model with the modified fluid-extraction data and the modified trial schedule; wherein, for at least a plurality of the iterations, the modified trial schedule is selected, at least in part, to reduce uncertainty in the sample space as characterized by the surrogate model, wherein at least one pump controller is controlled based at least in part on the modified trial schedule to control the injection of the fluid into the reservoir.
18. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using active learning techniques from machine learning.
19. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to reduce uncertainty in the sample space by using Bayesian optimization of Gaussian Process Regression surrogates.
20. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the modified trial schedules are selected to improve one or more metrics-of-interest in extracting the resource fluid from the reservoir.
</claims>
</document>
