<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B102/32,A63B24/00,A63B60/46,A63B69/36,A63B71/06,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G16H20/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARCCOS GOLF
ARCCOS GOLF
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHILLIPS, COLIN DAVID
SYED, SALMAN HUSSAIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62838783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Autonomous personalized golf recommendation and analysis environment
</title>

<abstract>
Exemplary embodiments of the present disclosure are directed to systems, methods, and computer-readable media configured to autonomously generate personalized recommendations for a user before, during, or after a round of golf. The systems and methods can utilize course data, environmental data, user data, and/or equipment data in conjunctions with one or more machine learning algorithms to autonomously generate the personalized recommendations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of autonomously generating personalized recommendations for a user before, during, or after a round of golf, the method comprising: receiving an input from a user associated with a round of golf; retrieving at least one of course data, environmental data, user data, or equipment data from at least one of one or more sensors or one or more data sources; autonomously generating a recommendation or analysis for the user based on the course data, the environment data, the user data, or the equipment data in response to executing of one or more machine learning algorithms that consume the course data, the environmental data, the user data, and the equipment data; and outputting the recommendation or analysis to the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the course data includes data associated with a golf course for the round of golf.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the environmental data includes environmental conditions associated with the golf course or a geographic region in proximity to or within which the golf course resides.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user data includes data that is specific to the golf performance of the user at the golf course or at other golf courses.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the equipment data includes data that is specific the use of golf equipment by the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more machine learning algorithms are executed concurrently to each other.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: weighting the outputs of the one or more machine learning algorithms.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: assigning each output of the one or more machine learning algorithms a vote; and determine the recommendation or analysis to output to be rendered on the display based on a quantity of votes.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a pre-round analysis is autonomously generated, and the method further comprises: identifying a golf course associated with the round of golf in response to input received from the user.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein identifying the golf course comprises: receiving location information generated by an electronic device associated with the user; and determining whether the location information corresponds to an arrival of the user at a golf course.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a post-round analysis is autonomously generated, and the method further comprises: receiving location information and golf data generated by at least one of an electronic device associated with the user or sensors affixed to golf clubs associated with the user; and determining that the golf data and location information corresponds to a completion of a round of golf at the golf course by the user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein a contemporaneous recommendation is autonomously generated during the round of golf, and the method comprises: identifying a current hole, shot number, and location of the golf ball on the golf course.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: tracking the round of golf based on data generated by at least one of an electronic device associated with the user or sensors affixed to golf clubs associated with the user.
14. A system for autonomously generating personalized recommendations for a user before, during, or after a round of golf, the system comprising: one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing at least one of course data, environmental data, user data, or equipment data; one or more servers configured to: receive an input from a user associated with a round of golf; retrieve the course data, the environmental data, the user data, or the equipment data from the one or more non-transitory computer-readable media; autonomously generate a recommendation or analysis for the user based on the course data, the environment data, the user data, or the equipment data in response to executing of one or more machine learning algorithms that consume the course data, the environmental data, the user data, and the equipment data; and output the recommendation or analysis to the user.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the course data includes data associated with a golf course for the round of golf, the environmental data includes environmental conditions associated with the golf course or a geographic region in proximity to or within which the golf course resides, the user data includes data that is specific to the golf performance of the user at the golf course or at other golf courses, and the equipment data includes data that is specific the use of golf equipment by the user.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more servers are configured to execute the one or more machine learning algorithms concurrently with each other.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more servers are configured to weight the outputs of the one or more machine learning algorithms.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more servers are configured to assign each output of the one or more machine learning algorithms a vote and determine the recommendation or analysis to output to be rendered on the display based on a quantity of votes.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein a pre-round analysis is autonomously generated, and the one or more servers are configured to: identify a golf course associated with the round of golf in response to input received from the user.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the one or more servers are configured to identify the golf course by receiving location information generated by an electronic device associated with the user, and determining whether the location information corresponds to an arrival of the user at a golf course.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein a post-round analysis is autonomously generated, and the one or more servers are configured to: receive location information and golf data generated by at least one of an electronic device associated with the user or sensors affixed to golf clubs associated with the user; and determine that the golf data and location information corresponds to a completion of a round of golf at the golf course by the user.
22. The system of claim 14, wherein a contemporaneous recommendation is autonomously generated during the round of golf, and the one or more servers are configured to: identify a current hole, shot number, and location of the golf ball on the golf course.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the one or more servers are configured to: track the round of golf based on data generated by at least one of an electronic device associated with the user or sensors affixed to golf clubs associated with the user.
</claims>
</document>
