<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60P3/12,G05D1/02,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHRISTENSEN, SCOTT T.
FARRIS, SCOTT
HAYWARD, GREGORY
KONRARDY, BLAKE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63014052
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for enhancing the functionality of a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for enhancing the functionality of a semi-autonomous vehicle are described herein. The semi-autonomous vehicle may receive a communication from a fully autonomous vehicle within a threshold distance of the semi-autonomous vehicle. If the vehicles are travelling on the same route or the same portion of a route, the semi-autonomous vehicle may navigate to a location behind the fully autonomous vehicle. Then the semi-autonomous vehicle may operate autonomously by replicating one or more functions performed by the fully autonomous vehicle. The functions and/or maneuvers performed by the fully autonomous vehicle may be detected via sensors in the semi-autonomous vehicle and/or may be identified by communicating with the fully autonomous vehicle to receive indications of upcoming maneuvers. In this manner, the semi-autonomous vehicle may act as a fully autonomous vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for enhancing the functionality of a vehicle, comprising: broadcasting, via one or more processors and/or associated transceivers of a semiautonomous vehicle having one or more autonomous operation features, a request to follow a fully autonomous vehicle within a predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle via vehicle-to-vehicle wireless communication when the semi-autonomous vehicle is operating in a partially autonomous mode of operation with at least some of the control decisions being made by a vehicle operator; receiving, at the one or more processors and/or associated transceivers of the semiautonomous vehicle via vehicle-to-vehicle communication, an indication directly from several autonomous vehicles that each autonomous vehicle is within the predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle, wherein each indication includes identification information for the autonomous vehicle for determining a safety rating of the autonomous vehicle; selecting, at the one or more processors of the semi-autonomous vehicle, an autonomous vehicle from among the several autonomous vehicles within the predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle based upon the safety rating of each of the several autonomous vehicles as determined according to the identification information for each autonomous vehicle; and for a portion of the route, causing, by the one or more processors, the semi-autonomous vehicle to follow the selected autonomous vehicle and mimic each maneuver performed by the autonomous vehicle, such that the semi-autonomous vehicle is capable of operating without input from the vehicle operator along the same portion of the route.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors periodically re-verify that the semi-autonomous vehicle remains within a predetermined distance of the selected autonomous vehicle, and when a distance between the vehicles exceeds the predetermined threshold distance, the semi-autonomous vehicle maneuvers to the side of the road and parks.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one component in the semi-autonomous vehicle is malfunctioning, such that the semi-autonomous vehicle requires input from the vehicle operator to operate.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the semi-autonomous vehicle is damaged in a vehicle collision and the selected autonomous vehicle is a tow service vehicle.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the semi-autonomous vehicle includes fewer sensors for autonomous operation than the selected autonomous vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the semi-autonomous vehicle to mimic each maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle includes: receiving, at the one or more processors, an indication of an upcoming maneuver to be performed by the selected autonomous vehicle and an indication of a time or location at which the upcoming maneuver will be performed; and causing, by the one or more processors, the semi-autonomous vehicle to perform the upcoming maneuver at the indicated time or location.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving, at the one or more processors, an indication of a speed at which the selected autonomous vehicle is travelling; and causing, by the one or more processors, the semi-autonomous vehicle to travel slower than the semi-autonomous vehicle based upon the received speed.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein causing the semi-autonomous vehicle to mimic each maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle includes: detecting, via one or more sensors within the semi-autonomous vehicle, a maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle; and causing, by the one or more processors, the semi-autonomous vehicle to perform a same maneuver as the detected maneuver.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the vehicle operator for the semi-autonomous vehicle provides input to the semi-autonomous vehicle to direct the semi-autonomous vehicle to a location behind the autonomous vehicle; and when the semi-autonomous vehicle detects the selected autonomous vehicle in front of the semi-autonomous vehicle, the method further includes causing, by the one or more processors, the semi-autonomous vehicle to operate without input from the vehicle operator.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting, at the one or more processors of the semi-autonomous vehicle, an autonomous vehicle from among the several autonomous vehicles within the predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle is based upon a comparison of the current route of the semi-autonomous vehicle with each of the several autonomous vehicles' route, respectively.
11. A computer system configured to enhance the functionality of a vehicle, the computer system comprising one or more local or remote processors, transceivers, and/or sensors configured to: broadcast, via a semi-autonomous vehicle having one or more autonomous operation features, a request to follow a fully autonomous vehicle within a predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle via vehicle-to-vehicle wireless communication when the semi-autonomous vehicle is operating in a partially autonomous mode of operation with at least some of the control decisions being made by a vehicle operator; receive, at the semi-autonomous vehicle via vehicle-to-vehicle communication, an indication directly from several fully autonomous or fully operational autonomous vehicles that each fully autonomous or fully operational autonomous vehicle is within the predetermined communication range of the semi-autonomous vehicle, wherein each indication includes identification information for the autonomous vehicle for determining a safety rating of the autonomous vehicle; select, at the semi-autonomous vehicle, an autonomous vehicle from among the several autonomous vehicles within the predetermined communication range of the semiautonomous vehicle based upon the safety rating of each of the several autonomous vehicles as determined according to the identification information for each autonomous vehicle; and for a portion of the route, cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to follow the selected autonomous vehicle and mimic each maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle, such that the semi-autonomous vehicle is capable of operating without input from the vehicle operator.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the semiautonomous vehicle periodically re-verifies that the semi-autonomous vehicle remains within a predetermined distance of the selected autonomous vehicle, and when a distance between the vehicles exceeds the predetermined threshold distance, the semi-autonomous vehicle maneuvers to the side of the road and parks.
13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein at least one component in the semi-autonomous vehicle is malfunctioning, such that the semi-autonomous vehicle requires input from the vehicle operator to operate.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the semiautonomous vehicle is damaged in a vehicle collision and the selected autonomous vehicle is a tow service vehicle.
15. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the semiautonomous vehicle includes fewer sensors for autonomous operation than the selected autonomous vehicle.
16. The computer system of claim 11, wherein to cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to mimic each maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle, the one or more local or remote processors, transceivers, and/or sensors are configured to: receive an indication of an upcoming maneuver to be performed by the selected autonomous vehicle and an indication of a time or location at which the upcoming maneuver will be performed; and cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to perform the upcoming maneuver at the indicated time or location.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein one or more local or remote processors, transceivers, and/or sensors are further configured to: receive an indication of a speed at which the selected autonomous vehicle is travelling; and cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to travel slower than the semi-autonomous vehicle based upon the received speed.
18. The computer system of claim 11, wherein to cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to mimic each maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle, the one or more local or remote processors, transceivers, and/or sensors are configured to: detect, via one or more sensors within the semi-autonomous vehicle, a maneuver performed by the selected autonomous vehicle; and cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to perform a same maneuver as the detected maneuver.
19. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the vehicle operator for the semi-autonomous vehicle provides input to the semi-autonomous vehicle to direct the semi-autonomous vehicle to a location behind the selected autonomous vehicle; and when the semi-autonomous vehicle detects the selected autonomous vehicle in front of the semi-autonomous vehicle, the one or more local or remote processors, transceivers, and/or sensors are configured to cause the semi-autonomous vehicle to operate without input from the vehicle operator.
20. The computer system of claim 11, wherein selecting at the semi-autonomous vehicle, an autonomous vehicle from among the several autonomous vehicles within the predetermined communication range of the semiautonomous vehicle is based upon a comparison of the current route of the semi-autonomous vehicle with each of the several autonomous vehicles' route, respectively.
</claims>
</document>
