<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELEKTA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAN XIAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60782359
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Online learning enhanced atlas-based auto-segmentation
</title>

<abstract>
An image segmentation method is disclosed. The method includes receiving a plurality of atlases and a subject image, each atlas including an atlas image showing a structure of interest and associated structure delineations, the subject image being acquired by an image acquisition device and showing the structure of interest. The method further includes calculating, by an image processor, mapped atlases by registering the respective atlases to the subject image, and determining, by the image processor, a first structure label map for the subject image based on the mapped atlases. The method also includes training, by the image processor, a structure classifier using a subset of the mapped atlases, and determining, by the image processor, a second structure label map for the subject image by applying the trained structure classifier to one or more subject image points in the subject image. The method additional includes combining, by the image processor, the first label map and the second label map to generate a third label map representative of the structure of interest.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image segmentation method, comprising: receiving, by an image processor, a subject image acquired by an image acquisition device and showing a structure of interest; determining, by the image processor, a first structure label map for the structure of interest by registering atlases to the subject image; detecting a disparity of a structure label determined for a given region in the subject image by two of the registered atlases; and resolving the disparity by applying a trained structure classifier to one or more subject image points in the subject image, the trained structure classifier being trained based on training samples that are selected for a subset of mapped atlases in response to determining that a first structure label determined for a given region of a training image is different from a second structure label for the given region of the training image.
2. The image segmentation method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving a plurality of atlases, each atlas including an atlas image showing a structure of interest and associated structure delineations; calculating the mapped atlases by registering the respective atlases to the subject image; determining, by the image processor, a second structure label map for the structure of interest, wherein the disparity is detected based on a comparison of the first and second structure label maps; and combining, by the image processor, the first structure label map and the second structure label map to generate a third structure label map representative of the structure of interest.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein calculating the mapped atlases includes: mapping the atlas image in each atlas to the subject image; calculating a registration transformation for each atlas based on the mapping; and calculating mapped structure delineations for each atlas by applying the registration transformation to the structure delineations of the atlas.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining the first structure label map includes: determining atlas-based auto-segmentation (ABAS) structure label maps corresponding to the atlases based on the respective structure delineations; and determining the first structure label map by fusing the ABAS structure label maps, wherein fusing the ABAS structure label is according to at least one of a majority voting method or a simultaneous truth and performance level estimation (STAPLE) method.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising registering the atlases to the subject image by mapping each atlas image and the subject image to a common reference image.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the reference image is an average atlas image obtained by averaging the atlas images.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a subset of the mapped atlases based on a selection criterion.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein selecting the subset of the mapped atlases includes: determining an image similarity between each mapped atlas image and the subject image; ranking the mapped atlases based on the image similarities of the respective mapped atlas images; and selecting the subset of the mapped atlases based on the ranking.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein determining the image similarity includes determining a global similarity indicating how the corresponding mapped atlas image as a whole correlates with the subject image as a whole, or determining a local similarity representing how the structure of interest in the corresponding mapped atlas image correlates with the structure of interest in the subject image.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein applying the trained structure classifier includes applying a random forest algorithm to the one or more subject image points in the subject image to obtain a random forest model.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining that the first structure label is different from the second structure label comprises determining that a number of mapped atlases exceeds a specified amount such that a disagreement between structure labels among the mapped atlases for the given region is larger than a certain level.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the trained structure classifier comprises a convolutional neural network.
13. An image segmentation apparatus, comprising: an image processor configured to perform operations comprising: receiving a subject image acquired by an image acquisition device and showing a structure of interest; determining a first structure label map for the structure of interest by registering atlases to the subject image; detecting a disparity of a structure label determined for a given region in the subject image by two of the registered atlases; and resolving the disparity by applying a trained structure classifier to one or more subject image points in the subject image, the trained structure classifier being trained based on training samples that are selected for a subset of mapped atlases in response to determining that a first structure label determined for a given region of a training image is different from a second structure label for the given region of the training image.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a plurality of atlases, each atlas including an atlas image showing a structure of interest and associated structure delineations; calculating the mapped atlases by registering the respective atlases to the subject image; determining, by the image processor, a second structure label map for the structure of interest, wherein the disparity is detected based on a comparison of the first and second structure label maps; and combining, by the image processor, the first structure label map and the second structure label map to generate a third structure label map representative of the structure of interest.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein calculating the mapped atlases includes: mapping the atlas image in each atlas to the subject image; calculating a registration transformation for each atlas based on the mapping; and calculating mapped structure delineations for each atlas by applying the registration transformation to the structure delineations of the atlas.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein determining the first structure label map includes: determining atlas-based auto-segmentation (ABAS) structure label maps corresponding to the atlases based on the respective structure delineations; and determining the first structure label map by fusing the ABAS structure label maps, wherein fusing the ABAS structure label is according to at least one of a majority voting method or a simultaneous truth and performance level estimation (STAPLE) method.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise registering the atlases to the subject image by mapping each atlas image and the subject image to a common reference image.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the reference image is an average atlas image obtained by averaging the atlas images.
19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise selecting a subset of the mapped atlases based on a selection criterion.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by an image processor, cause the processor to perform an image segmentation method, comprising: receiving a subject image acquired by an image acquisition device and showing a structure of interest; determining a first structure label map for the structure of interest by registering atlases to the subject image; detecting a disparity of a structure label determined for a given region in the subject image by two of the registered atlases; and resolving the disparity by applying a trained structure classifier to one or more subject image points in the subject image, the trained structure classifier being trained based on training samples that are selected for a subset of mapped atlases in response to determining that a first structure label determined for a given region of a training image is different from a second structure label for the given region of the training image.
</claims>
</document>
