<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S17/06,G01S17/89,G05D1/02,G06K9/00,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
BREWINGTON, BRIAN EDMOND
BELMON, STEPHANE
COOPER, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59702805
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Need-sensitive image and location capture system and method
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure provides for a method of controlling one or more sensors on a moving vehicle that is executable by one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices may detect a first surface at a first location and a second surface at a second location using the one or more sensors. The second surface may be classified as a target of interest. Then the one or more computing devices may determine one or more timing characteristics of the one or more sensors based on a pose or motion of the one or more sensors relative to the first location of the first surface and the second location of the second surface. Then, the one or more computing devices may control the one or more sensors to capture data according to the determined one or more timing characteristics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling one or more sensors on a moving vehicle comprising: detecting, by one or more computing devices, a first surface at a first location and a second surface at a second location using the one or more sensors; classifying, by the one or more computing devices, the second surface as a target of interest; determining, by the one or more computing device, one or more timing characteristics of the one or more sensors based on a pose or motion of the one or more sensors relative to the first location of the first surface and the second location of the second surface; controlling, by the one or more computing devices, the one or more sensors to capture data based on the determined one or more timing characteristics; and classifying, by the one or more computing devices, the first surface as an occluder in response to the first location being or will be between a location of the one or more sensors and the second location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the timing characteristic comprises: determining a first rate of capture for capturing the first surface, based on the first location; and determining a second rate of capture for capturing the second surface, based on the second location, the second rate of capture being higher than the first rate of capture; and wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling a first sensor of the one or more sensors to capture a first dataset relating to the first surface at the first rate of capture, and controlling a second sensor of the one or more sensors to capture a second dataset relating to the second surface at the second rate of capture.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more timing characteristics for capturing data comprises determining one or more trigger locations at which data should be captured by the one or more sensors so that at least part of the occluder is not captured by the one or more sensors; and wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling the one or more sensors to capture data according to the determined one or more trigger locations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more timing characteristics are also determined based on a speed of the moving vehicle.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an image sensor.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a location sensor configured to capture three-dimensional location data.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more computing devices, whether data relating to the target of interest was captured a designated amount of times in the captured data; and sending, by the one or more computing devices, a message indicating more data relating to the target of interest is needed.
8. A system comprising: one or more sensors for capturing visual data, location data, or both; and one or more computing devices; and a memory comprising computer-readable instructions, which when executed by the one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to: detect, using the one or more sensors, a first surface at a first location and a second surface at a second location; classify the second surface as a target of interest; determine one or more timing characteristics of the one or more sensors based on a pose or motion of the one or more sensors relative to the first location of the first surface and the second location of the second surface; control the one or more sensors to capture data based on the determined one or more timing characteristics; and classify the first surface as an occluder in response to the first location being or will be between a location of the one or more sensors and the second location.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more timing characteristics are determined by: determining a first rate of capture for capturing the first surface based on the first location; and determining a second rate of capture for capturing the second surface, based on the second location, the second rate of capture being higher than the first rate of capture; and wherein a first sensor of the one or more sensors is controlled to capture a first dataset relating to the first surface at the first rate of capture, and a second sensor of the one or more sensors is controlled to capture a second dataset relating to the second surface at the second rate of capture.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more timing characteristics are determined by determining one or more trigger locations at which data should be captured by the one or more sensors so that at least part of the occluder is not captured by the one or more sensors; and wherein the one or more sensors are controlled to capture data by controlling the one or more sensors to capture data according to the determined one or more trigger locations.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors are mounted on a vehicle, and the one or more timing characteristics are also determined based on a speed of the vehicle.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprise an image sensor.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more sensors comprise a location sensor configured to capture three-dimensional location data.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein, when executing the computer-readable instructions, the one or more computing devices are further caused to: determine whether data relating to the target of interest was captured a designated amount of times in the captured data; and send a message indicating more data relating to the target of interest is needed.
15. The system of claim 8, further comprising a vehicle, wherein the one or more sensors are mounted on the vehicle.
16. A non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage medium on which computer readable instructions of a program are stored, the instructions, when executed by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to perform a method, the method comprising: detecting a first surface at a first location and a second surface at a second location using one or more sensors; classifying the second surface as a target of interest; determining one or more timing characteristics of the one or more sensors based on a pose or motion of the one or more sensors relative to the first location of the first surface and the second location of the second surface; controlling the one or more sensors to capture databased on the determined one or more timing characteristics; and classifying the first surface as an occluder in response to the first location being or will be between a location of the one or more sensors and the second location.
17. The medium of claim 16, wherein determining the timing characteristic comprises: determining a first rate of capture for capturing the first surface based on the first location; and determining a second rate of capture for capturing the second surface based on the second location, the second rate of capture being higher than the first rate of capture; and wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling a first sensor of the one or more sensors to capture a first dataset relating to the first surface at the first rate of capture, and controlling a second sensor of the one or more sensors to capture a second dataset relating to the second surface at the second rate of capture.
18. The medium of claim 16, wherein determining the one or more timing characteristics for capturing data comprises determining one or more trigger locations at which data should be captured by the one or more sensors so that at least part of the occluder is not captured by the one or more sensors; and wherein controlling the one or more sensors to capture data comprises controlling the one or more sensors to capture data according to the determined one or more trigger locations.
19. The medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more sensors are mounted on a vehicle, and the one or more timing characteristics are also determined based on a speed of the vehicle.
20. The medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: determining whether data relating to the target of interest was captured a designated amount of times in the captured data; and sending a message indicating more data relating to the target of interest is needed.
</claims>
</document>
