<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/00,G06K7/08,G06K7/10,G06Q20/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
GOODSITT, JEREMY EDWARD
WALTERS, AUSTIN GRANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70285297
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques to automatically detect fraud devices
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments are generally directed to techniques detect transaction card skimmers based on emitted and detected light patterns. Embodiments may also include techniques to detect transaction card skimmers based on detected ambient light levels.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a housing comprising a light detector; a keypad; a transaction card reader surrounded by the housing, the transaction card reader comprising a second light detector; a light source capable of emitting light patterns; a second light source capable of emitting light patterns; and a processing circuit coupled with the light source and the light detector, the processing circuit to: cause the light source to emit a first random light pattern and the second light source to emit a second random light pattern, wherein the first random light pattern is different than the second random light pattern; receive information from the light detector, the information indicating a first received light pattern; receive information from the second light detector, the information indicating a second received light pattern detected by the second light detector; determine whether the first received light pattern matches the first random light pattern; determine whether the second received light pattern matches the second random light pattern; in response to the determination that the first received light pattern does not match the first random light pattern or the second received light pattern does not match the second random light pattern, cause a remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that the first received light pattern does match the first random light pattern and the second received light pattern does match the second random light pattern, emit another random light pattern, and wherein the processing circuit is configured to process a financial transaction based on card data read from a transaction card by the transaction card reader, after a predetermined number of pattern matching determinations are made.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the processing circuit to: cause the second light source to emit a third random light pattern; receive information from the light detector and/or the second light detector, the information indicating a received third light pattern detected by the light detector and/or the second light detector; determine whether the received third light pattern matches the third random light pattern; in response to the determination that the received third light pattern does not match the third random light pattern, cause the remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that the received third light pattern does match the random light pattern, emit another random light pattern.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the random light pattern, the second random light pattern, and the third random light pattern are different patterns.
4. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein at least two of the random light pattern, the second random light pattern, and the third random light pattern are a same pattern.
5. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the light source, the second light source, and the third light source to emit random patterns in at least one of a visible light range, an infrared light range, and an ultraviolet light range.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the remedial action comprises at least one of sending an alert, prohibiting a transaction, and generating an audible and/or visual alarm.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, comprising: a keypad device comprising a second light detector; and the processing circuit to: receive information from the second light detector, the information indicating a received second light pattern by the second light detector; determine whether the received second light pattern matches the random light pattern; in response to the determination that the received second light pattern does not match the random light pattern, cause the remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that the received second light pattern does match the random light pattern, emit another random light pattern.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, the processing circuit to: cause the second light source to emit a third random light pattern; receive information from the second light detector, the information indicating a received third light pattern detected by the second light detector; determine whether the received third light pattern matches the third random light pattern; in response to the determination that the received third light pattern does not match the third random light pattern, cause the remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that the received third light pattern does match the random light pattern, emit another random light pattern.
9. A system, comprising: a keypad; a transaction card reader; a housing, at least a portion of which surrounds the transaction card reader; a plurality of light detectors, wherein each of the plurality of light detectors is located on the housing, the keypad, or the transaction card reader; a light source capable of emitting light patterns; a second light source capable of emitting light patterns; and a processing circuit coupled with the light source, the second light source, and the plurality of light detectors, the processing circuit to: cause the light source to emit a first random light pattern and the second light source to emit a second random light pattern, wherein the first random light pattern is different than the second random light pattern; receive information from each of the plurality of light detectors, the information indicating received light patterns from each of the plurality of light detectors; determine whether one of the received light patterns received by a first of the plurality of light detectors match the first random light pattern; determine whether one of the received light patterns received by a second of the plurality of light detectors match the second random light pattern; in response to the determination that at least one of the received light patterns does not match the random light pattern, cause a remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that one of the received light patterns does match the first random light pattern and that one of the received light patterns does match the second random light pattern, permit a transaction system to process a financial transaction based on card data read from a card by the transaction card reader.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first random light pattern and the second random light pattern are different patterns.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the first random light pattern and the second random light pattern are a same pattern.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the second light source to emit the second random pattern in one of a visible light range, an infrared light range, and an ultraviolet light range.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the remedial action comprises at least one of sending an alert, prohibiting a transaction, and generating an audible and/or visual alarm.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, comprising computer readable code, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: cause a light source embedded in a transaction system to emit a first random light pattern and a second light source embedded in the transaction system to emit a second random light pattern, wherein the first random light is different than the second random light pattern; receive information from each of a plurality of light detectors, the information indicating one or more received light patterns from each of the plurality of light detectors, and each of the plurality of light detectors being embedded in a housing of the transaction system, a transaction card reader of the transaction system, or a keypad of the transaction system; determine whether at least one of the one of more received light patterns received by a first of the plurality of light detectors match the first random light pattern; determine whether at least one of the one or more received light patterns received by a second of the plurality of light detectors match the second random light pattern; in response to the determination that the one or more received light patterns does not match the first random light pattern or the second random light pattern, cause a remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that one of the one or more received light patterns does match the first random light pattern and one of the one or more received light patterns does match the second random light pattern, permit the transaction system to process a financial transaction based on card data read from a card inserted into a card reader embedded in the transaction system.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising computer-readable program code executable to: cause a third light source embedded in the transaction system to emit a third random light pattern; receive information from at least one of the plurality of light detectors, the information indicating third received light patterns from at least one the plurality of light detectors; determine whether the third received light patterns match the third random light pattern; in response to the determination that the third received light patterns do not match the third random light pattern, cause a remedial action to be performed; and in response to the determination that the third received light patterns do match the third random light pattern, permit the transaction system to process data.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first random light pattern, the second random light pattern, and the third random light pattern are different patterns.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein at least two of the random light patterns, the second random light pattern, and the third random light pattern are a same pattern.
</claims>
</document>
