<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06Q20/20,G06Q20/32,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VISA INTERNATIONAL SERVICE ASSOCIATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GADDAM, SIVANARAYANA
GALLAND, DEAN
KUMAR, VIBHOR
PETERSEN, ZACK
PRAKASH, GYAN
YOU, DI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64455625
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated point of sale system
</title>

<abstract>
A method for automatically analyzing a personal service session and completing a transaction therefor, includes monitoring a service location with a video camera in communication with a processor, determining that the personal service session has begun based on an identification of at least one start trigger event, analyzing an output from the video camera including a plurality of frames of video data collected during the personal service session to identify a sequence of frames of the video data, automatically matching the sequence of frames to at least one type of service that was provided during the personal service session, determining that the personal service session has ended based on an identification of at least one end trigger event, determining a transaction value associated with the types of service that have been provided during the personal service session, and generating an electronic invoice based on the determined transaction value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for automatically analyzing a personal service session between a merchant individual and a customer and completing a transaction therefor, comprising: monitoring a service location, the merchant individual, and the customer with at least one video camera in communication with at least one processor; determining, with the at least one processor, that the personal service session has begun based at least partially on an identification of at least one start trigger event; analyzing, with the at least one processor, an output from the at least one video camera comprising a plurality of frames of video data collected during the personal service session to identify at least one sequence of frames of the video data; identifying, with the at least one processor, at least one service transition trigger event occurring after the at least one start trigger event based on monitoring at least the merchant individual and the customer with the at least one video camera and analyzing the output, the at least one service transition trigger event representing a transition between a first type of service provided by the merchant individual to the customer and a second type of service provided by the merchant individual to the customer during the personal service session; automatically matching at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames preceding the at least one service transition trigger event to the first type of service and at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames succeeding the at least one service transition trigger event to the second type of service that was provided during the personal service session, wherein the first type of service is different than the second type of service, and wherein the first type of service is provided to the customer during a time period between the at least one start trigger event and the at least one service transition trigger event; determining, with the at least one processor, that the personal service session has ended based at least partially on an identification of at least one end trigger event; determining, with the at least one processor, a transaction value associated with the personal service session by determining a total monetary value of at least the first type of service and the second type of service based on a first monetary value of the first type of service and a second monetary value of the second type of service, wherein the first monetary value is different than the second monetary value; and generating an electronic invoice based at least partially on the determined transaction value.
2. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one processor comprises a processor of a merchant device.
3. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the following events: the at least one start trigger event, the at least one end trigger event, the at least one service transition trigger event, or any combination thereof, comprises at least one of the following: a voice command, an output from the at least one video camera, a signal from at least one additional sensor in communication with the at least one processor, a user input, or any combination thereof.
4. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one start trigger event and/or the at least one end trigger event comprises a signal from at least one additional sensor, and wherein the at least one additional sensor comprises at least one of the following: an additional camera, a microphone, a heat sensor, a motion sensor, a weight sensor, a capacitance sensor, or any combination thereof.
5. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein automatically matching the at least one sequence of frames to at least one type of service comprises predicting at least one action that is occurring in at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames based at least partially on a comparison of each of the at least one frame with historical data.
6. The computer-implemented method according to claim 5, wherein the at least one action is predicted using a convolutional neural network.
7. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising communicating the electronic invoice to a customer device.
8. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising initially monitoring the service location with the at least one video camera in communication with the at least one processor for a training period to create a database of services.
9. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising recording, with the at least one processor, an indication that at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service have been provided, based at least partially on the matched sequence of frames.
10. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, further comprising automatically determining a duration of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service, wherein the transaction value of the at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service is determined based at least partially on the determined duration.
11. The computer-implemented method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one type of service comprises a plurality of types of service, the method further comprising: automatically comparing the plurality of types of service to a service package database comprising a plurality of pre-programmed service packages; and identifying whether a combination of at least two of the plurality of types of services corresponds to at least one of the plurality of pre-programmed service packages, wherein the transaction value of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service is determined based at least partially on a predetermined value of the at least one pre-programmed service package.
12. A system for automatically analyzing a personal service session between a merchant and a customer and completing a transaction therefor, comprising at least one processor configured to communicate with at least one video camera configured for monitoring a service location, the at least one processor being configured or programmed to: determine, based at least partially on an identification of at least one start trigger event, that a personal service session has begun; analyze an output from the at least one video camera comprising a plurality of frames of video data collected during the personal service session to identify at least one sequence of frames of the video data; identify at least one service transition trigger event occurring after the at least one start trigger event based on monitoring the merchant and the customer with the at least one video camera and analyzing the output, wherein the at least one service transition trigger event represents a transition between a first type of service provided by the merchant to the customer and a second type of service provided by the merchant to the customer during the personal service session; automatically match at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames preceding the at least one service transition trigger event to the first type of service and at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames succeeding the at least one service transition trigger event to the second type of service that was provided during the personal service session; determine that the personal service session has ended based at least partially on an identification of at least one end trigger event; automatically determine a duration of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service; determine a transaction value of the personal service session by determining a total value of at least the first type of service and the second type of service, wherein the transaction value is determined based at least partially on the determined duration and a price per unit of time associated with the at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service; and generate an electronic invoice based at least partially on the determined transaction value.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one processor comprises a processor of a merchant device.
14. The system according to claim 12, wherein at least one of the at least one start trigger event, the at least one end trigger event, the at least one service transition trigger event, or any combination thereof, comprises at least one of the following: a voice command, an output from the at least one video camera, a signal from at least one additional sensor in communication with the at least one processor, a user input, or any combination thereof.
15. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one start trigger event and/or the at least one end trigger event comprises a signal from at least one additional sensor, and wherein the at least one additional sensor comprises at least one of the following: an additional camera, a microphone, a heat sensor, a motion sensor, a weight sensor, a capacitance sensor, or any combination thereof.
16. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one sequence of frames is automatically matched to at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service based at least partially on a prediction of at least one action that is occurring in at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames based at least partially on a comparison of each of the at least one frame with historical data.
17. The system according to claim 16, wherein the at least one action is predicted using a convolutional neural network.
18. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one processor is further configured or programmed to communicate the electronic invoice to a customer device.
19. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one sequence of frames is automatically matched to at least one type of service of a database of services, the database of services having been generated based at least partially on video data collected during a training period.
20. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one processor is further configured or programmed to record an indication that at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service have been provided, based at least partially on the matched sequence of frames.
21. The system according to claim 12, wherein the at least one type of service comprises a plurality of types of service, the at least one processor being further configured or programmed to: automatically compare the plurality of types of service to a service package database comprising a plurality of pre-programmed service packages; and identify whether a combination of at least two of the plurality of types of services corresponds to at least one of the plurality of pre-programmed service packages, wherein the transaction value of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service is determined based at least partially on a predetermined value of the at least one pre-programmed service package.
22. A computer program product for automatically analyzing a personal service session between a merchant and a customer and completing a transaction therefor using at least one processor configured to communicate with at least one video camera configured to monitor a service location, the computer program product comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising program instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: determine, based at least partially on an identification of at least one start trigger event, that a personal service session has begun; analyze an output from the at least one video camera comprising a plurality of frames of video data collected during the personal service session to identify at least one sequence of frames of the video data; identify at least one service transition trigger event occurring after the at least one start trigger event based on monitoring the merchant and the customer with the at least one video camera and analyzing the output, wherein the at least one transition trigger event represents a transition between a first type of service provided by the merchant to the customer and a second type of service provided by the merchant to the customer during the personal service session; automatically match at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames preceding the at least one service transition trigger event to the first type of service and at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames succeeding the at least one service transition trigger event to the second type of service that was provided during the personal service session; determine that the personal service session has ended based at least partially on an identification of at least one end trigger event; automatically determine a duration of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service; determine a transaction value of the personal service session by determining a total value of at least the first type of service and the second type of service, wherein the transaction value is determined based at least partially on the determined duration and a price per unit of time associated with the at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service; and generate an electronic invoice based at least partially on the determined transaction value.
23. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one processor comprises a processor of a merchant device.
24. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein at least one of the at least one start trigger event, the at least one end trigger event, the at least one service transition trigger event, or any combination thereof, comprises at least one of the following: a voice command, an output from the at least one video camera, a signal from at least one additional sensor in communication with the at least one processor, a user input, or any combination thereof.
25. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one start trigger event and/or the at least one end trigger event comprises a signal from at least one additional sensor, and wherein the at least one additional sensor comprises at least one of the following: a further camera, a microphone, a heat sensor, a motion sensor, a weight sensor, a capacitance sensor, or any combination thereof.
26. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one sequence of frames is automatically matched to at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service based at least partially on a prediction of at least one action that is occurring in at least one frame of the at least one sequence of frames based at least partially on a comparison of each of the at least one frame with historical data.
27. The computer program product according to claim 26, wherein the at least one action is predicted using a convolutional neural network.
28. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprises program instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to communicate the electronic invoice to a customer device.
29. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one sequence of frames is automatically matched to at least one type of service of a database of services, the database of services having been generated based at least partially on video data collected during a training period.
30. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprises program instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to record an indication that at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service has been provided, based at least partially on the matched sequence of frames.
31. The computer program product according to claim 22, wherein the at least one type of service comprises a plurality of types of service, the at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium further comprising program instructions that, when executed by at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: automatically compare the plurality of types of service to a service package database comprising a plurality of pre-programmed service packages; and identify whether a combination of at least two of the plurality of types of services corresponds to at least one of the plurality of pre-programmed service packages, wherein the transaction value of at least one of the first type of service and the second type of service is determined based at least partially on a predetermined value of the at least one pre-programmed service package.
</claims>
</document>
