<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V1/28,G01V1/36,G06K9/00,G06K9/52,G06K9/62,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY & ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS OF SANDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
PETERSON, MATTHEW GREGOR
VOLLMER, CHARLES THEODORE
STRACUZZI, DAVID JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67393372
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for enhancing a computer to estimate an uncertainty of an onset of a signal of interest in time-series noisy data
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method of enhancing a computer to estimate an uncertainty of an onset of a signal of interest in time-series noisy data. A first mathematical model of first time series data that contains only noise is calculated. A second mathematical model of second time series data that contains the noise and an onset of a signal of interest in the second time series data is calculated. A difference is evaluated between a first combination, being the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model, and a second combination, being the first time series data and the second time series data, wherein evaluating is performed using a generalized entropy metric. A specific time when an onset of the signal of interest occurs is estimated from the difference. An "a posteriori" distribution is derived for an uncertainty of the specific time at which the onset occurs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of enhancing a computer to estimate an uncertainty of an onset of a signal of interest in time-series noisy data, the computer-implemented method comprising: calculating, using a processor, a first mathematical model of first time series data that contains only noise; calculating, using the processor, a second mathematical model of second time series data that contains noise and an onset of a signal of interest in the second time series data; evaluating, using the processor, a difference between a first combination, comprising the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model, and a second combination, comprising the first time series data and the second time series data, wherein evaluating is performed using a generalized entropy metric; estimating from the difference, using the processor, a specific time when an onset of the signal of interest occurs; and deriving, using the processor, an "a posteriori" distribution for an uncertainty of the specific time at which the onset occurs.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generalized entropy metric comprises an Akaike information criterion.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the specific time is estimated by finding a value that satisfies the Akaike information criterion for log likelihoods of the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the "a posteriori" distribution is derived using the first mathematical model, the second mathematical model, and Monte Carlo sampling.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein each sample of the Monte Carlo sampling repeats calculating the first mathematical model, calculating the second mathematical model, evaluating, and estimating.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 further comprising: generating and displaying a kernel density estimate as an approximation of an onset time posterior distribution.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the first time series data comprises first data from a single seismic sensor; the second time series data comprises second data from the single seismic sensor; the signal of interest comprises a waveform induced by a seismic event in the Earth; and the specific time comprises the onset of the seismic event.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first mathematical model is a Gaussian random noise model.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the second mathematical model is an auto-regressive moving average model.
10. A computer comprising: a processor; a non-transitory computer recordable storage medium connected to the processor and storing program code which, when executed by the processor, performs a computer-implemented method of enhancing a computer to estimate an uncertainty of an onset of a signal of interest in time-series noisy data, the program code comprising: program code for calculating, using a processor, a first mathematical model of first time series data that contains only noise; program code for calculating, using the processor, a second mathematical model of second time series data that contains noise and an onset of a signal of interest in the second time series data; program code for evaluating, using the processor, a difference between a first combination, comprising the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model, and a second combination, comprising the first time series data and the second time series data, wherein evaluating is performed using a generalized entropy metric; program code for estimating from the difference, using the processor, a specific time when an onset of the signal of interest occurs; and program code for deriving, using the processor, an "a posteriori" distribution for an uncertainty of the specific time at which the onset occurs.
11. The computer of claim 10, wherein the generalized entropy metric comprises an Akaike information criterion.
12. The computer of claim 11, wherein the specific time is estimated using the program code by finding a value that satisfies the Akaike information criterion for log likelihoods of the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model.
13. The computer of claim 10, wherein the "a posteriori" distribution is derived using the program code by using the first mathematical model, the second mathematical model, and Monte Carlo sampling.
14. The computer of claim 13 further comprising: program code for generating and displaying a kernel density estimate as an approximation of an onset time posterior distribution.
15. The computer of claim 10, wherein: program code for the first time series data comprises first data from a single seismic sensor; program code for the second time series data comprises second data from the single seismic sensor; program code for the signal of interest comprises a waveform induced by a seismic event in the Earth; and program code for the specific time comprises the onset of the seismic event.
16. The computer of claim 10, wherein the first mathematical model is a Gaussian random noise model.
17. The computer of claim 10, wherein the second mathematical model is an auto-regressive moving average model.
18. A non-transitory computer recordable storage medium connected to a processor and storing program code which, when executed by the processor, performs a computer-implemented method of enhancing a computer to estimate an uncertainty of an onset of a signal of interest in time-series noisy data, the program code comprising: program code for calculating, using a processor, a first mathematical model of first time series data that contains only noise; program code for calculating, using the processor, a second mathematical model of second time series data that contains noise and an onset of a signal of interest in the second time series data; program code for evaluating, using the processor, a difference between a first combination, comprising the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model, and a second combination, comprising the first time series data and the second time series data, wherein evaluating is performed using a generalized entropy metric; program code for estimating from the difference, using the processor, a specific time when an onset of the signal of interest occurs; and program code for deriving, using the processor, an "a posteriori" distribution for an uncertainty of the specific time at which the onset occurs.
19. The non-transitory computer recordable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the generalized entropy metric comprises an Akaike information criterion, and wherein the specific time is estimated using the program code by finding a value that satisfies the Akaike information criterion for log likelihoods of the first mathematical model and the second mathematical model.
20. The non-transitory computer recordable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the "a posteriori" distribution is derived using the program code by using the first mathematical model, the second mathematical model, and Monte Carlo sampling, and wherein the program code further comprises: program code for generating and displaying a kernel density estimate as an approximation of an onset time posterior distribution.
</claims>
</document>
