<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/10,H01P3/16,H01P7/06,H04B3/36,H04B3/46,H04B3/50,H04B3/52,H04B3/54,H04B3/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719800
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus for transmitting or receiving electromagnetic waves
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a system for generating electromagnetic signals that resonate in a cavity having a plurality of reflectors resulting in resonating electromagnetic signals and combining the resonating electromagnetic signals to form an electromagnetic wave that traverses a reflector and couples onto a physical transmission medium. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a first reflector; a second reflector that is coaxially aligned with the first reflector; a plurality of transmitters coupled to the second reflector; a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: generating, by the plurality of transmitters, a plurality of electromagnetic signals that convey data, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of electromagnetic signals resonate in a cavity between the first reflector and the second reflector resulting in resonating electromagnetic signals, wherein the resonating electromagnetic signals combine to form an electromagnetic wave that conveys the data, wherein the electromagnetic wave traverses at least in part the first reflector, is emitted by an aperture of the first reflector, and couples onto a physical transmission medium, and wherein the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the second reflector comprises one or more first portions that substantially absorb the resonating electromagnetic signals, and one or more second portions that substantially reflect the resonating electromagnetic signals.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic wave has an electromagnetic field configuration that reduces leakage of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the electromagnetic wave has a depth of focus that reduces the leakage of the electromagnetic wave.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the depth of focus of the electromagnetic wave is configurable according to a configurable distance of the cavity, a configurable phase of each of the plurality of electromagnetic signals, a configurable amplitude of each of the plurality of electromagnetic signals, a configurable radial distance between the plurality of transmitters, or any combinations thereof.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic wave approximates a Bessel-shaped waveform.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the electromagnetic wave approximates a Bessel-Gauss-shaped waveform.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the first reflector is adapted to reflect a first component of the resonating electromagnetic signals and enable a second component of the resonating electromagnetic signals to traverse the first reflector, wherein the second component comprises the electromagnetic wave.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the first reflector is polarized to facilitate reflecting the first component of the resonating electromagnetic signals off the first reflector and enabling the second component of the resonating electromagnetic signals to propagate through the first reflector.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein a structure of the aperture of the first reflector configures a depth of focus of the electromagnetic wave.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the first reflector and the second reflector are coaxially aligned with the physical transmission medium.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more first portions and the one or more second portions of the second reflector collectively configure the resonating electromagnetic signals to have a first electromagnetic field configuration with a first intensity and a second electromagnetic field configuration with a second intensity, wherein the first intensity of the first electromagnetic field configuration is greater than the second intensity of the second electromagnetic field configuration.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the second electromagnetic field configuration is in closer proximity to an outer surface of the physical transmission medium than the first electromagnetic field configuration.
13. A device, comprising: a first reflector; a second reflector; a plurality of receivers coupled to the second reflector; a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: generating, by the plurality of receivers, from resonating electromagnetic signals received by the plurality of receivers, a signal that conveys data, wherein the resonating electromagnetic signals are formed by a plurality of electromagnetic signals resonating in a cavity between the first reflector and the second reflector, wherein the plurality of electromagnetic signals are generated by an electromagnetic wave that traverses an aperture of the first reflector, wherein the electromagnetic wave propagates along a physical transmission medium towards the aperture of the first reflector without requiring an electrical return path, and wherein the electromagnetic wave conveys the data, wherein the first reflector is polarized to facilitate reflecting a first component of the resonating electromagnetic signals off the first reflector and enabling a second component of the resonating electromagnetic signals to propagate through the first reflector.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the first reflector, the second reflector, and the physical transmission medium are coaxially aligned with each other.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the electromagnetic wave has an electromagnetic field configuration that reduces leakage of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the second reflector comprises one or more first portions that substantially absorb the resonating electromagnetic signals, and one or more second portions that substantially reflect the resonating electromagnetic signals.
17. A method, comprising: generating, by a plurality of transmitters, a plurality of electromagnetic signals; generating according to the plurality of electromagnetic signals resonating electromagnetic signals, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of electromagnetic signals resonate in a cavity between a first reflector and a second reflector resulting in resonating electromagnetic signals; and combining the resonating electromagnetic signals to form an electromagnetic wave that conveys data, wherein the electromagnetic wave traverses the first reflector and couples onto a physical transmission medium, and wherein the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the electromagnetic wave has an electromagnetic field configuration that reduces leakage of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates along the physical transmission medium, and wherein the second reflector comprises one or more first portions that substantially absorb the resonating electromagnetic signals, and one or more second portions that substantially reflect the resonating electromagnetic signals.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the first reflector is polarized to facilitate reflecting a first component of the resonating electromagnetic signals off the first reflector and enabling a second component of the resonating electromagnetic signals to propagate through the first reflector.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the electromagnetic wave approximates a Bessel-shaped waveform.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the electromagnetic wave approximates a Bessel-Gauss-shaped waveform.
</claims>
</document>
