<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/901,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, BEI
PLOENNIGS, JOERN
SCHUMANN, ANIKA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61970406
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic identification and deployment of virtual sensor models
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for using virtual sensor models in an internet of things (IoT) environment by a processor. One or more virtual sensor models are automatically identified according to a semantic graph, having a knowledge domain that links and describes a relationship between observed variables associated with one or more sensors with unobserved variables associated with the IoT environment. The one or more virtual sensor models may be selected for deployment in the IoT environment according to one or more combinations of virtual sensor inputs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, by a processor, for using virtual sensor models in an internet of things (IoT) environment, comprising: automatically identifying one or more virtual sensor models according to a semantic graph, having a knowledge domain that links and describes a relationship between observed variables associated with one or more physical sensors with unobserved variables associated with the IoT environment; wherein the one or more virtual sensor models use virtual sensor inputs of one or more virtual sensors to deduce values estimated as undetected variables that otherwise would be produced by the one or more physical sensors; selecting the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment in the IoT environment according to one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs; wherein the selecting further includes automatically recommending locations for the deployment of the one or more virtual sensors in the IoT environment based on an indication that the one or more virtual sensor models are able to train the one or more virtual sensors at a perspective location according to a cause-effect relationship of at least two of the one or more physical sensors in a vicinity of the perspective location; and commensurate with selecting the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment, linking the observed variables and the unobserved variables to estimate virtual sensor model output values and confidence levels for each one of the one or more virtual sensor models; wherein the estimated output values and confidence levels identify an applicability and variance of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to each of the recommended locations for the deployment.
2. The method of claim 1, further including creating the semantic graph from a selection of data points from the one or more physical sensors or a database.
3. The method of claim 1, further including identifying those of the one or more virtual sensor models having a graph pattern that match at least one of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs.
4. The method of claim 1, further including applying graph patterns of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to the one or more virtual sensor models to identify the locations for the deployment.
5. The method of claim 1, further including training the one or more virtual sensor models according to historical data or simulated sensor data using machine learning.
6. The method of claim 5, further including selecting the one or more virtual sensor models stored in a database utilizing the semantic graph or applying a predictive model to the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs.
7. A system for using virtual sensor models in an internet of things (IoT) environment, comprising: a processor, operational within and between a distributed computing environment, that automatically identifies one or more virtual sensor models according to a semantic graph, having a knowledge domain that links and describes a relationship between observed variables associated with one or more physical sensors with unobserved variables associated with the IoT environment; wherein the one or more virtual sensor models use virtual sensor inputs of one or more virtual sensors to deduce values estimated as undetected variables that otherwise would be produced by the one or more physical sensors; selects the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment in the IoT environment according to one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs; wherein the selecting further includes automatically recommending locations for the deployment of the one or more virtual sensors in the IoT environment based on an indication that the one or more virtual sensor models are able to train the one or more virtual sensors at a perspective location according to a cause-effect relationship of at least two of the one or more physical sensors in a vicinity of the perspective location; and commensurate with selecting the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment, links the observed variables and the unobserved variables to estimate virtual sensor model output values and confidence levels for each one of the one or more virtual sensor models; wherein the estimated output values and confidence levels identify an applicability and variance of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to each of the recommended locations for the deployment.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor creates the semantic graph from a selection of data points from the one or more physical sensors or a database.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor identifies those of the one or more virtual sensor models having a graph pattern that match at least one of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor applies graph patterns of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to the one or more virtual sensor models to identify the locations for the deployment.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor trains the one or more virtual sensor models according to historical data or simulated sensor data using machine learning.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the processor selects the one or more virtual sensor models stored in a database utilizing the semantic graph or applying a predictive model to the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs.
13. A computer program product for, by a processor, using virtual sensor models in an internet of things (IoT) environment, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that automatically identifies one or more virtual sensor models according to a semantic graph, having a knowledge domain that links and describes a relationship between observed variables associated with one or more physical sensors with unobserved variables associated with the IoT environment; wherein the one or more virtual sensor models use virtual sensor inputs of one or more virtual sensors to deduce values estimated as undetected variables that otherwise would be produced by the one or more physical sensors; an executable portion that selects the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment in the IoT environment according to one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs; wherein the selecting further includes automatically recommending locations for the deployment of the one or more virtual sensors in the IoT environment based on an indication that the one or more virtual sensor models are able to train the one or more virtual sensors at a perspective location according to a cause-effect relationship of at least two of the one or more physical sensors in a vicinity of the perspective location; and an executable portion that, commensurate with selecting the one or more virtual sensor models for deployment, links the observed variables and the unobserved variables to estimate virtual sensor model output values and confidence levels for each one of the one or more virtual sensor models; wherein the estimated output values and confidence levels identify an applicability and variance of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to each of the recommended locations for the deployment.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, further including an executable portion that creates the semantic graph from a selection of data points from the one or more physical sensors or a database.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, further including an executable portion that: identifies those of the one or more virtual sensor models having a graph pattern that match at least one of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs; and applies graph patterns of the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs to the one or more virtual sensor models to identify the locations for the deployment.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, further including an executable portion that trains the one or more virtual sensor models according to historical data or simulated sensor data using machine learning.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, further including an executable portion that selects the one or more virtual sensor models stored in a database utilizing the semantic graph or applying a predictive model to the one or more combinations of the virtual sensor inputs.
</claims>
</document>
