<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CHIRAL SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOLLANDER, ERIC JONATHAN
REMINGTON, MICHAEL TRAVIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69772956
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for detection of temporal pattern anomalies in video streams
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting temporal pattern anomalies in a video stream includes detecting an object in a current frame of the video stream, generating a processed current frame that contains the detected object, generating a feature representation of the processed current frame, clustering the feature representation in one or more primary clusters in a clustering space of the primary class, generating an information vector of the feature representation, that includes information regarding the primary class, the sub-class and one or more external factors associated with the feature representation, clustering each information vector into one or more secondary clusters, and reporting a next frame as an anomaly when a corresponding information vector is positioned outside a secondary cluster of a feature presentation of a previous frame.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for detecting temporal pattern anomalies in a video stream, the method comprising: receiving the video stream from a camera; detecting an object in a current frame of the video stream and generating a processed current frame that contains the detected object; determining a primary class of the detected object; generating a feature representation of the processed current frame by a convolutional encoder; clustering the feature representation m one or more primary clusters in a clustering space of the primary class, wherein the one or more primary clusters correspond to a sub-class of the primary class; generating an information vector of the feature representation, that includes information regarding the primary class, the sub-class of the primary class, and one or more external factors associated with the feature representation; clustering each information vector of the video stream into one or more secondary clusters, wherein each variable in the information vector is a clustering dimension; and reporting a next frame as an anomaly when a corresponding information vector is positioned outside a secondary cluster of the one or more secondary clusters, of an information vector of a previous frame.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising determining a cluster identification (ID) of the feature representation based on a corresponding sub-class of the primary class.
3. The method as claimed in claim 2, wherein the information vector of a feature representation is a set containing a corresponding class number, a cluster identification (ID), a date, minute of day, a day, a month, a year, and a weather associated with corresponding image frame.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the camera is selected from at least one of: a traffic camera, a home doorbell camera, a body camera for soldiers or law enforcement, and a camera on an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processed current frame is a cropped image of the current frame.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processed current frame is a masked image of the current frame.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the convolutional encoder includes a series of convolutional layers to produce a feature representation of the processed current frame, wherein the feature representation is a tensor generated by a neural network that contains learned relevant information about the current frame.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1 further comprising detecting a negative anomaly in the video stream when a regular event ceases.
9. A system for detecting temporal pattern anomalies in a video stream, the system comprising: an image input module configured to: receive the video stream from a camera; an object detection module configured to: detect an object in a current frame of the video stream; generate a processed current frame that contains the detected object; and determine a primary class of the detected object; a convolutional encoder configured to: generate a feature representation of the processed current frame; a primary clustering module configured to: cluster the feature representation in one or more primary clusters in a clustering space of the primary class, wherein the one or more primary clusters correspond to a sub-class of the primary class; a vector generation module configured to: generate an information vector of the feature representation, that includes information regarding the primary class, the sub-class of the primary class, and one or more external factors associated with the feature representation; and an anomaly clustering module configured to: cluster each information vector of the video stream into one or more secondary clusters wherein each variable in the information vector is a clustering dimension; and report a next frame as an anomaly when a corresponding information vector is positioned outside a secondary cluster of the one or more secondary clusters of an information vector of a previous frame.
10. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the primary clustering module is configured to determine a cluster identification (ID) of the feature representation based on a corresponding sub-class of the primary class.
11. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the information vector of a feature representation is a set containing a corresponding class number, a cluster identification (ID), a date, minute of day, a day, a month, a year, and a weather associated with corresponding image frame.
12. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the camera is selected from at least one of: a traffic camera, a home doorbell camera, a body camera for soldiers or law enforcement, and a camera on an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV).
13. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the processed current frame is a cropped image of the current frame.
14. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the processed current frame is a masked image of the current frame.
15. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the convolutional encoder includes a series of convolutional layers to produce a feature representation of the processed current frame, wherein the feature representation is a tensor generated by a neural network that contains learned relevant information about the current frame.
16. The system as claimed in claim 9, wherein the anomaly clustering module is further configured to detect a negative anomaly in the video stream when a regular event suddenly ceases.
17. A computer programmable product for detecting temporal pattern anomalies in a video stream, the computer programmable product comprising a set of instructions, the set of instructions when executed by a processor causes the processor to: receive the video stream from a camera; detect an object in a current frame of the video stream and generate a processed current frame that contains the detected object; determine a primary class of the detected object; generate a feature representation of the processed current frame by a convolutional encoder; cluster the feature representation m one or more primary clusters in a clustering space of the primary class, wherein the one or more primary clusters correspond to a sub-classes of the primary class; generate an information vector of the feature representation, that includes information regarding the primary class, the sub-class of the primary class, and one or more external factors associated with the feature representation; cluster each information vector of the video stream into one or more secondary clusters, wherein each variable in the information vector is a clustering dimension; and report a next frame as an anomaly when a corresponding information vector is positioned outside a secondary cluster, of the one or more secondary clusters of an information vector of a previous frame.
18. The computer programmable product as claimed in claim 17, wherein the set of instructions when executed by a processor causes the processor to determine a cluster identification (ID) of the feature representation based on corresponding sub-class.
19. The computer programmable product as claimed in claim 17, wherein the information vector of a feature representation is a set containing a corresponding class number, a cluster identification (ID), a date, minute of day, a day, a month, a year, and a weather associated with corresponding image frame.
20. The computer programmable product as claimed in claim 17, wherein the set of instructions when executed by a processor detect a negative anomaly in the video stream when a regular event suddenly ceases.
</claims>
</document>
