<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/245,G06T7/194,G06T7/55,G06T7/70,G06T7/80,H04N17/00,H04N5/225,H04N5/232,H04N5/247,H04N5/33,H04N9/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DAJIA INTERNET INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG LEI
XU, YI
WEN, ZIYU
ZHAO, PEIYAO
JIANG, XIUBAO
CHEN, KUNYAO
FENG, ZHOUTIAN
ZHAO, YIKAI
LU, YAO
Li, Jisheng
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62791119
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing holographic videos
</title>

<abstract>
An example holographic video recording system comprises: a first group of cameras positioned at a first position, a second group of cameras positioned at a second position, and a third group of camera including a third infrared camera. The first group of cameras includes a first infrared camera and a first color camera; the second group of cameras includes a second infrared camera and a second color camera; and the third group of camera includes a third infrared camera spatially positioned between the first and second infrared cameras. A depth map may be calculated using the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera in accordance with determining that an object is beyond a predefined distance from the holographic video recording system; or the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera in accordance with determining that the object is within the predefined distance from the holographic video recording system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A holographic video recording system, comprising: a first group of cameras positioned at a first position, wherein the first group of cameras includes a first infrared camera and a first color camera; a second group of cameras positioned at a second position, wherein the second group of cameras includes a second infrared camera and a second color camera; and a third group of camera spatially positioned between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera in a linear fashion, wherein the third group of camera includes a third infrared camera; wherein a first distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera is greater than a second distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera; and wherein a first depth map is calculated using the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera spaced at the first distance; wherein a second depth map is calculated using the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera spaced at the second distance; and wherein a combined depth map is obtained through fusing by using depth values from the first depth map for a first object beyond a predefined distance from the holographic video recording system, and/or using depth values from the second depth map for a second object within the predefined distance from the holographic video recording system.
2. The holographic video recording system of claim 1, further comprising a predetermined number of groups of cameras, each group of cameras in the predetermined number of groups of cameras includes at least a color camera and an infrared camera.
3. The holographic video recording system of claim 1, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is fixed.
4. The holographic video recording system of claim 1, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is adjustable.
5. The holographic video recording system of claim 4, wherein the distance between the first position and the second position is automatically adjusted in accordance with a position of a mobile object using a motor to move at least one group of the cameras, and the distance between two adjacent cameras in a same group is fixed.
6. The holographic video recording system of claim 1, further comprising: an infrared pattern projector configured to project light to an object.
7. The holographic video recording system of claim 6, wherein the infrared pattern projector is further configured to adjust light projection to the object in accordance with feedback from any camera included in the holographic video recording system by panning, tilting, and zooming, when the camera recognizes a person or a predefined object, or a movement thereof, to focus on the person or the predefined object.
8. A depth sensing method, applicable to a holographic video recording system, comprising: providing the holographic video recording system comprising: a first group of cameras positioned at a first position, wherein the first group of cameras includes a first infrared camera and a first color camera; a second group of cameras positioned at a second position, wherein the second group of cameras includes a second infrared camera and a second color camera; and a third group of camera spatially positioned between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera in a linear fashion, wherein the third group of camera includes a third infrared camera; wherein a first distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera is greater than a second distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera; calculating a first depth map using the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera spaced at the first distance; calculating a second depth map using the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera spaced at the second distance; and obtaining a combined depth map through fusing by using depth values from the first depth map for a first object beyond a predefined distance from the holographic video recording system, and/or using depth values from the second depth map for a second object within the predefined distance from the holographic video recording system.
9. The depth sensing method of claim 8, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is fixed.
10. The depth sensing method of claim 8, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is adjustable.
11. The depth sensing method of claim 10, further comprising automatically adjusting the distance between the first position and the second position in accordance with a position of a mobile object using a motor to move at least one group of the cameras, wherein the distance between adjacent cameras in a same group is fixed.
12. The depth sensing method of claim 8, further comprising: projecting light to the objects by an infrared pattern projector.
13. The depth sensing method of claim 12, further comprising: adjusting light projection to the objects in accordance with feedback from any camera included in the holographic video recording system by panning, tilting, and zooming, when the camera recognizes a person or a predefined object, or a movement thereof, to focus on the person or the predefined object.
14. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium, applicable to a holographic video recording system comprising: a first group of cameras positioned at a first position, wherein the first group of cameras includes a first infrared camera and a first color camera; a second group of cameras positioned at a second position, wherein the second group of cameras includes a second infrared camera and a second color camera; and a third group of camera spatially positioned between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera in a linear fashion, wherein the third group of camera includes a third infrared camera; wherein a first distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera is greater than a second distance spaced between the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera; wherein the non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprises instructions stored therein, executable by a processor, causing the processor to: calculate a first depth map using the first infrared camera and the second infrared camera spaced at the first distance; calculate a second depth map using the first infrared camera and the third infrared camera spaced at the second distance; and obtain a combined depth map through fusing by using depth values from the first depth map for a first object beyond a predefined distance from the holographic video recording system, and/or using depth values from the second depth map for a second object within the predefined distance from the holographic video recording system.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is fixed.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein distance between the first position and the second position is adjustable.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the distance between the first position and the second position is automatically adjusted in accordance with a position of a mobile object using a motor to move at least one group of the cameras, and the distance between two adjacent cameras in a same group is fixed.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the holographic video recording system further comprises an infrared pattern projector configured to project light to an object.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the infrared pattern projector is further configured to adjust light projection to the object in accordance with feedback from any camera included in the holographic video recording system by panning, tilting, and zooming, when the camera recognizes a person or a predefined object, or a movement thereof, to focus on the person or the predefined object.
20. The holographic video recording system of claim 1, further comprising a camera calibration rig for calibrating intrinsic parameters of the cameras, the camera calibration rig comprising a plurality of vertical levels and a plurality of faces for each level in the plurality of vertical levels, wherein each face in the plurality of faces includes a chess board pattern, and each white area in the chess board pattern includes a different quick response (QR) code.
</claims>
</document>
