<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/11,G06F19/00,G16H10/60,G16H20/30,G16H40/67,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PHILIPS ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KERBER, CAMERON LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61190907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Location, activity, and health compliance monitoring using multidimensional context analysis
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for monitoring patient activity, location, present health status, and health protocol compliance. The present invention provides a more complete and accurate picture of a patient's health and safety context through a multi-dimensional user health and safety context analysis. Based on the combined computed health compliance score, calculated activity index, the computed location score, and calculated user health index, an overall user health and safety score is calculated. If the computed overall user health and safety score violates a predefined threshold or threshold range, an alert is transmitted to one or more persons.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical alert method for creating a multidimensional user context analysis comprising: providing a patient monitoring device comprising one or more physiological sensors, a motion sensor, a location tracker, a processor, a wireless communications interface, a memory device, a graphical user interface, and a power source, wherein the patient monitoring device is configured to be carried by a user; acquiring the user's most recently assigned health protocol and the user's current location; monitoring, via the patient monitoring device, user compliance to the user's most recently assigned health protocol; computing a health compliance score based on the monitored user compliance to the user's most recently assigned health protocol; computing a location score using the user's current location measured by the patient monitoring device, the user's historical activity record measured by the patient monitoring device, frequently-visited places measured by the patient monitoring device, and one or more scheduled user activities, wherein computing the location score is based on determining whether the user's current location is an identified safe location, an identified unsafe location, or an unidentified new location; computing an overall user health score based on the computed health compliance score, and the computed location score; and sending an alert message to a physician or a caretaker after the computed overall health score violates a predefined threshold, wherein the alert message includes the user's current location, a reason for the alert, and a request for the physician or the caretaker to provide an indication of whether the user's current location is safe or unsafe when the user's current location is the unidentified new location.
2. The medical alert method as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring one or more preset physiological parameter thresholds; measuring the user's one or more physiological parameters; comparing the user's one or more physiological parameters with the corresponding one or more preset physiological parameter thresholds; and calculating a user health index based on the measured one or more physiological parameters and comparison with the corresponding one or more preset physiological parameter thresholds.
3. The medical alert method as recited in claim 2, wherein the user's one or more physiological parameters comprise heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, respiration, activity, weight, and temperature.
4. The medical alert method as recited in claim 3, wherein the method further comprises: acquiring a list of the frequently-visited places, and a list of the one or more scheduled user activities; and calculating a user activity score based on at least one of the user's historical activity record, medical record, the list of the frequently-visited places, the user's current location, or the list of the one or more scheduled user activities.
5. The medical alert method as recited in claim 4, wherein the overall user health score is further based on the calculated user health index and the calculated user activity score.
6. The medical alert method as recited in claim 4, wherein the overall user health score is calculated as follows: overall user health score=b1×1+b2×2+b3×3+b4×4 wherein, b1−Computed health compliance score, ×1=Computed health compliance score weighting factor, b2=Calculated user health index, ×2=Calculated user health index weighting factor, b3=Calculated activity score, ×3=Calculated activity score weighting factor, b4=Computed location score, and ×4=Computed location score weighting factor.
7. The medical alert method of claim 1, wherein a patient's primary physician is authorized to remotely modify a default score for the health compliance score.
8. The medical alert method of claim 1, wherein the patient monitoring device is configured to send an alert to an emergency hotline after identification of the user's current location as unsafe.
9. The medical alert method of claim 1, wherein the patient monitoring device is a wearable device.
10. The medical alert method of claim 9, wherein the wearable device further comprises a wristwatch server.
11. A medical alert system for creating a multidimensional user context analysis comprising: a main server comprising a first processor and a first memory, a patient records database, and a locations database, wherein the patient records database include a user's most recently assigned health protocol; a patient monitoring device, comprising one or more physiological sensors, a motion sensor, a location tracker, a second processor, a wireless communications interface, a second memory, a graphical user interface, and a power source, wherein the patient monitoring device is configured to be carried by a user and monitor compliance of the user; a network interconnecting the patient monitoring device with the main server, wherein the main server is configured to compute a health compliance score based on the monitored compliance and the user's most recently assigned health protocol, compute a location score based on the user's current location measured by the patient monitoring device, the user's historical activity record measured by the patient monitoring device, frequently-visited places measured by the patient monitoring device, and one or more scheduled user activities, wherein computing the location score is based on determining whether the user's current location is an identified safe location, an identified unsafe location, or an unidentified new location, compute an overall user health score based on the health compliance score and the computed location score, and send an alert message to a physician or a caretaker after the computed overall user health score violates a predefined threshold, wherein the alert message includes the user's current location, a reason for the alert, and a request for the physician or the caretaker to provide an indication of whether the user's current location is safe or unsafe when the user's current location is the unidentified new location.
12. The medical alert system as recited in claim 11, wherein the main server is further configured to calculate an activity score based on the user's historical activity record, medical record, the frequently-visited places, the user's current location, and the one or more scheduled user activities.
13. The medical alert system as recited in claim 11, wherein the main server further comprises: a physiological parameter database comprising one or more of heart rate, blood pressure, oxygen saturation, respiration, activity, weight, and temperature.
14. The medical alert system as recited in claim 13, wherein the physiological parameter database comprises one or more physiological parameter thresholds, and wherein the main server is configured to calculate a user health index based on the measured one or more physiological parameters and comparison with the corresponding one or more physiological parameter thresholds.
15. The medical alert system as recited in claim 14, wherein the locations database includes one or more of the user's historical activity record, medical record, the frequently-visited places, the user's current location, or the one or more scheduled user activities; and the main server is configured to calculate a user activity score based on at least one of the user's historical activity record, the medical record, the frequently-visited places, the user's current location, or the one or more scheduled user activities.
16. The medical alert system as recited in claim 15, wherein the overall user health score is further based on the calculated user health index and the calculated user activity score.
17. The medical alert system as recited in claim 16, wherein the overall user health score is calculated as follows: overall user health score-b1×1+b2×2+b3×3+b4×4wherein, b1=Computed health compliance score, ×1=Computed health compliance score weighting factor, b2=Calculated user health index, ×2=Calculated user health index weighting factor, b3=Calculated activity score,×3=Calculated activity score weighting factor, b4=Computed location score, and ×4=Computed location score weighting factor.
18. A medical alert method for monitoring patient activity, location, and health protocol compliance using a multidimensional context analysis comprising: providing a patient monitoring device comprising one or more physiological sensors, a motion sensor, a location tracker, a processor, a wireless communications interface, a memory device, a graphical user interface, and a power source, wherein the patient monitoring device is configured to be carried by a user; acquiring the user's most-recently assigned health protocol, the user's historical activity record, medical record, frequently-visited places, tile user's current location, and one or more scheduled user activities; monitoring, via the patient monitoring device, user compliance to the acquired user's most-recently assigned health protocol; computing a health compliance score based on the monitored user compliance to the acquired user's most-recently assigned health protocol; measuring the user's one or more physiological parameters; comparing the measured user's one or more physiological parameters with corresponding one or more preset physiological parameter thresholds; calculating a user health index based on the measured one or more physiological parameters and comparison with the corresponding one or more preset physiological parameter thresholds; computing a location score calculated using the user's current location measured by the patient monitoring device, the user's historical activity record measured by the patient monitoring device, the frequently-visited places measured by the patient monitoring device, and the one or more scheduled user activities, wherein computing the location score is based on determining whether the user's current location is an identified safe location, an identified unsafe location, or an unidentified new location; calculating a user activity score based on at least one of the user's historical activity record, the medical record, the frequently-visited places, the user's current location, and one or more of the scheduled user activities; computing an overall user health score based on the computed health compliance score, the calculated user health index, the calculated activity score, and the computed location score; and sending an alert message to a physician or a caretaker after the computed overall user health score violates a predefined threshold, wherein the alert message includes the user's current location, a reason for the alert, and a request, for the physician or the caretaker to provide an indication of whether the user's current location is safe or unsafe when the user's current location is the unidentified new location.
</claims>
</document>
