<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2008-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G06F9/54,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLAKE, JANE W.
COLLMANN, JEFFREY R.
LI, PETER CHAO-YUAN
POLYAK, MARK G.
THOMAS, CARLA, S.
TORII, MANABU
WILSON, JAMES, M.
YOON, JAE IN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63105877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for detecting, collecting, analyzing, and communicating event-related information
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method involves detecting operational social disruptive events on a global scale, modeling data in conjunction with linguistics analysis to establish responsive actions, and generating visualization and executing models for communicating information.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for detecting food security events or precursors to food security events, the system comprising: an information collection and processing subsystem comprising at least one repository database stored in non-transitory computer readable storage media containing documents downloaded from at least one publicly available information source; an information analysis and reporting subsystem that: stores indirect indications and warnings associated with socially disruptive events, the indirect indications and warnings being associated with food security events; and searches the documents for the indirect indications and warnings associated with food security events; a text classification system that uses a machine learning model or a combination of machine learning models to identify one or more documents that suggest that an unreported food security event or a precursor to an unreported food security event is unfolding based on the indications and warnings; and an information communications subsystem that outputs the documents that suggest that a food security event or a precursor to a food security event is unfolding.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein a food security event is an event impacting a supply of or access to food.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein a food security event includes at least one of a food shortage, plant or animal disease, food kiosk or restaurant closures, or food poisoning or adulteration.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the text classification system is based on Bayesian probability, wherein probability is the degree or strength of belief that a food security event or a precursor to a food security event is unfolding.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the information collection and processing subsystem downloads documents from the at least one publicly available information source based on a surveillance objective.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the information collection and processing subsystem downloads documents from the at least one publicly available information source based on a geographic region of interest.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the information analysis and reporting subsystem searches documents for indications and warnings selected based on a surveillance objective.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the information analysis and reporting subsystem searches documents for indications and warnings selected based on a geographic region of interest.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the information analysis and reporting subsystem that provides a graphical user interface that provides functionality for a user to: characterize an action described in each of the downloaded documents by selecting a subject from a predefined list of subjects, selecting an object from a predefined list of objects, and selecting an act being performed by the subject on the object from a predefined list of acts, wherein the predefined list of subjects, the predefined list of objects, and the predefined list of acts are specially crafted to characterize food security events.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the computer readable storage media stores keywords and synonyms associated with food security events; and the information analysis and reporting subsystem that provides functionality to search or filter the downloaded documents using the synonyms and keywords associated with food security events.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to create an event report comprising: a descriptive summary of the one or more documents that suggest that a food security event or a precursor to a food security event is unfolding; and a scale value selected from a range of scale values for describing a severity of the food security event.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the indirect indications and warnings associated with social disruption comprise at least one of an indirect report of demand for medical services, a local perception of threat, a report of business practice change, a report regarding integrity of infrastructure, or a suggestion that individuals or organizations have begun changing their daily routine activities.
13. A method of detecting food security events or precursors to food security events, the method comprising: storing, by an information analysis and reporting subsystem, indirect indications and warnings associated with socially disruptive events on non-transitive computer readable media, the indirect indications and warnings being associated with food security events; downloading, by an information collection and processing subsystem, documents from at least one publicly available information source; storing the documents in a repository database stored in non-transitory computer readable storage media; searching the documents, by the information analysis and reporting subsystem, for indirect indications and warnings associated with food security events; and identifying, by a text classification system that uses a machine learning model or a combination of machine learning models, one or more documents that suggest that an unreported food security event or a precursor to an unreported food security event is unfolding based on the indications and warnings.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein a food security event is an event impacting a supply of or access to food.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein a food security event includes at least one of a food shortage, plant or animal disease, food kiosk or restaurant closures, or food poisoning or adulteration.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the text classification system is based on Bayesian probability, wherein probability is the degree or strength of belief that a food security event or a precursor to a food security event is unfolding.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising: downloading the documents from the at least one publicly available information source based on a surveillance objective.
18. The method of claim 13, further comprising: downloading the documents from the at least one publicly available information source based on a geographic region of interest.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein searching the documents for indications and warnings comprises searching the documents for indications and warnings selected based on a surveillance objective.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein searching the documents for indications and warnings comprises searching the documents for indications and warnings selected based on a geographic region of interest.
21. The method of claim 13, further comprising: providing a graphical user interface that provides functionality for a user to characterize an action described in the downloaded documents by selecting a subject from a predefined list of subjects, selecting an object from a predefined list of objects, and selecting an act being performed by the subject on the object from a predefined list of acts, wherein the predefined list of subjects, the predefined list of objects, and the predefined list of acts are specially crafted to characterize food security events.
22. The method of claim 13, further comprising: storing keywords and synonyms associated with food security events; and providing functionality to search or filter the downloaded documents using the synonyms and keywords associated with food security events.
23. The method of claim 13, further comprising: providing functionality to create an event report comprising: a descriptive summary of the one or more documents that suggest that a food security event or a precursor to a food security event is unfolding; and a scale value selected from a range of scale values for describing a severity of the food security event.
24. The method of claim 13, wherein the indirect indications and warnings associated with social disruption comprise at least one of an indirect report of demand for medical services, a local perception of threat, a report of business practice change, a report regarding integrity of infrastructure, or a suggestion that individuals or organizations have begun changing their daily routine activities.
</claims>
</document>
