<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/455,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VUKOVIC, MAJA
PETERSON, BRIAN
BAI, KUN
HWANG, JINHO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55750030
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing migration of an application from a source to a target
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the disclosure relate to managing migration of an application. The managing migration of an application includes establishing a source dataset. The source dataset includes a set of source features. The source features relate to a source. The source includes the application. A determination of a first set of migration plans is made. The determination is made with an evaluation. The evaluation is made using the source dataset and a set of legacy features. The evaluation is performed with a cost measure. The application is migrated from the source to the target. The migration is based on the determined first set of migration plans.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for managing migration of an application, the method comprising: establishing a source dataset having a set of source features of a source which includes the application; determining for the application, by an evaluation of the source dataset and a set of legacy features, a first set of migration plans using a cost measure, wherein determining the first set of migration plans includes using a support vector machine; and migrating, based on the first set of migration plans, the application from the source to a target.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: establishing a set of post-migration performance data of the application; determining a second set of migration plans using the set of post-migration performance data; and establishing an updated set of legacy features including the set of source features of the source.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of source features includes a source topology of the application configured to describe at least two features selected from a first physical component of the source, a second physical component of the source, a first virtual component of the source, or a second virtual component of the source.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the source includes a computer networking environment configured to transport the application; the target includes a computer networking environment configured to receive the application; the set of source features includes a set of components of the application at the source having a number-of-transactions factor, a system response factor, memory usage, disk usage, network usage, and application central processing unit usage; the set of legacy features includes a set of source features of previously migrated applications.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the cost measure includes at least one feature selected from; a value factor of engaging the application per a migration plan; a value factor of accessing components leveraged by the application per a migration plan; a performance factor of the application per a migration plan; and a response factor of the application per a migration plan.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the evaluation includes: establishing the source dataset as a first n-dimensional feature vectors and the set of legacy features as a set of n-dimensional feature vectors; determining, based on the first n-dimensional feature vector and the set of n-dimensional feature vectors, a set of similarity scores associated with each of the set of n-dimensional feature vectors; and processing, in response to one or more of the set of n-dimensional feature vectors associated with a first set of migration plans meeting a similarity score threshold, the first set of migration plans.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of migration plans includes a set of configurations of the application at the target used by a previously migrated application, the set of configurations having: a set of racks configured for application hosting; a set of routers configured for application communicating; a set of switches configured for application connection managing; and a set of virtual machines configured for application organization.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of migration plans includes: a legacy target of the previously migrated application in a first computer networking environment; the target of the application in a second computer networking environment; and a configuration applicable to the first computer networking environment, the second computer networking environment, and a third computer networking environment.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein establishing the source dataset includes collecting data via scripts executed by a scripting engine to gather a set of inputs.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, using previous migrations, a threshold number of source features used in a successful migration; determining another set of source features including the threshold number of source features used in the successful migration; and establishing a source dataset using the set of source features.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein establishing the set of post-migration performance data of the application further comprises: collecting a set of performance data of the application; and predicting a set of post-migration performance data of the application.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising establishing the source dataset for the application upon receiving a request to migrate the application.
13. A system for managing migration of an application, the system comprising: a remote device; and a host device, wherein at least one of the remote device and the host device includes a processor, the processor being configured to perform a method comprising: establishing a source dataset having a set of source features of a source which includes the application; determining for the application, by an evaluation of the source dataset and a set of legacy features, a first set of migration plans using a cost measure, wherein determining the first set of migration plans includes using a support vector machine; and migrating, based on the first set of migration plans, the application from the source to a target.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein: the set of source features includes a source topology of the application configured to describe at least two features selected from a first physical component of the source, a second physical component of the source, a first virtual component of the source, or a second virtual component of the source; the source includes a computer networking environment configured to transport the application; the target includes a computer networking environment configured to receive the application; the set of source features includes a set of components of the application at the source having a number-of-transactions factor, a system response factor, memory usage, disk usage, network usage, and application central processing unit usage; the set of legacy features includes a set of source features of previously migrated applications; and the first set of migration plans includes a set of configurations of the application at the target used by a previously migrated application, the set of configurations having: a set of racks configured for application hosting; a set of routers configured for application communicating; a set of switches configured for application connection managing; and a set of virtual machines configured for application organization.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises structuring the source dataset using: scripts to gather a set of inputs; and a threshold number of source features used in a successful migration.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises identifying a group of the set of legacy features, wherein the group of the set of legacy features has a similarity score meeting a similarity threshold to the source dataset.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises identifying a portion of the set of legacy features, wherein the portion of the set of legacy features has a cost measure score meeting a cost measure threshold of the source dataset.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises identifying a migration plan, wherein the migration plan has a set of stability scores of a set of probabilistic extrapolations of the application to the target within a stability threshold.
19. A computer program product for managing migration of an application, the computer program product disposed upon a computer readable storage medium, the computer program product comprising computer program instructions that, when executed by a computer processor of a computer, cause the computer to carry out the steps of: establish a source dataset having a set of source features of a source which includes the application; determine for the application, by an evaluation of the source dataset and a set of legacy features, a first set of migration plans using a cost measure, wherein determining the first set of migration plans includes using a support vector machine; and migrate, based on the first set of migration plans, the application from the source to a target.
</claims>
</document>
