<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/232,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLYMPUS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUKUYA, YOSHIYUKI
ITO, KENSEI
NONAKA OSAMU
OSA, KAZUHIKO
SHINTANI, KOICHI
TANI AKIRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66534574
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Information apparatus, control method, and computer readable recording medium determining state information of the information apparatus across a power switch and transmitting such state information to an external, portable information terminal
</title>

<abstract>
An information apparatus for communicating with a portable information terminal includes a processor including hardware. The processor determines state information regarding a state of the information apparatus when the power state is switched, by the power switch, from the on state to the office state. The processor also determines whether the manually set parameter has been changed before and after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state, based on the use history information of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus. Finally, the information apparatus transmits, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the set parameter in the information apparatus has been changed when the processor determines that the set parameter has been changed while keeping the processor energized after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information apparatus for communicating with a portable information terminal, the information apparatus comprising: a power switch configured to switch a power state of the information apparatus from an on state to an off state; a memory configured to store use history information recording a use history of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; and a processor comprising hardware, the processor being configured to: determine state information regarding a state of the information apparatus when the power state is switched, by the power switch, from the on state to the office state; determine whether the manually set parameter has been changed before and after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state, based on the use history information of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; and transmit, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the set parameter in the information apparatus has been changed when the processor determines that the set parameter has been changed while keeping the processor energized after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state.
2. The information apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor generates consultation information for consulting with a user of the portable information terminal, based on the use situation, and the processor transmits the generated consultation information to the portable information terminal.
3. The information apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the processor generates the consultation information based on information about a scheduled event received from the portable information terminal and the use situation.
4. The information apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a clock configured to count time and date from an operation time point of the information apparatus, wherein the processor determines, as the use situation, an operational situation of the information apparatus based on the time and date counted by the clock.
5. The information apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processor generates, based on the use situation, consultation information for consulting with a user of the portable information terminal, the consultation information being different in content according to an elapsed time from when the battery of the information apparatus was last charged.
6. The information apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor further determines a variation in a wear state of at least one unit of the information apparatus.
7. The information apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor further determines, based on the use history information, whether a usage count of the set parameter is equal to or less than a predetermined value has been changed.
8. The information apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processor returns the set parameter to a state that existed just before the power state is switched when a reset request signal for returning the set parameter to a state that existed just before the power state is switched is input from the portable information terminal.
9. The information apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a battery remaining amount detection circuit configured to detect a remaining amount of a battery attached to the information apparatus, wherein the processor determines whether the detected remaining amount is a predetermined value or less, and the processor transmits, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the remaining amount is the predetermined value or less when the remaining amount is the predetermined value or less.
10. The information apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a memory remaining amount detection circuit configured to detect a memory remaining amount of a non-transitory recording medium attached to the information apparatus, wherein the processor determines whether the detected memory remaining amount is a predetermined value or less, and the processor transmits, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the memory remaining amount is the predetermined value or less when the memory remaining amount is the predetermined value or less.
11. The information apparatus according to claim 10, wherein, responsive to either of (A) receiving a media release request signal for releasing the memory remaining amount of the recording medium input from the portable information terminal and (B) recording a plurality of moving image data and a plurality of still image data in the recording medium, the processor transmits image data to the portable information terminal from the plurality of moving image data and deletes, from the recording medium, the plurality of moving image data transmitted from the recording medium.
12. The information apparatus according to claim 11, wherein the processor transmits, among the plurality of moving image data, image data to the portable information terminal in an order of older shooting time and date.
13. The information apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising an image sensor configured to generate image data by capturing an image of a subject, wherein the processor determines whether the image data has been newly generated after the power state is switched from an on state to an off state, and the processor transmits thumbnail image data of the newly-generated image data, as the state information, to the portable information terminal when the image data has been newly generated.
14. The information apparatus according to claim 1 [P6-1], wherein the processor transmits the use situation to the portable information terminal in a state where the information apparatus is unused.
15. A control method executed by an information apparatus for interactively communicating with a portable information terminal, the control method comprising: switching, responsive to a user input, a power state of the information apparatus from an on state to an off state; storing, on the information apparatus, use history information recording a use history of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; determining, with a processor of the information apparatus, state information regarding a state of the information apparatus when the power state is switched from the on state to the office state; determining, with the processor of the information apparatus, whether the manually set parameter has been changed before and after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state, based on the use history information of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; and transmitting, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the set parameter in the information apparatus has been changed when the processor determines that the set parameter has been changed while keeping the processor energized after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state.
16. A non-transitory computer readable recording medium on which an executable program is recorded, the executable program, which when executed by at least one processor of an information apparatus, causes the at least one processor to: switch, responsive to a user input, a power state of the information apparatus from an on state to an off state; store, on the information apparatus, use history information recording a use history of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; determine state information regarding a state of the information apparatus when the power state is switched from the on state to the office state; determine whether the manually set parameter has been changed before and after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state, based on the use history information of a manually set parameter in the information apparatus; and transmit, to the portable information terminal, the state information indicating that the set parameter in the information apparatus has been changed when the processor determines that the set parameter has been changed while keeping the processor energized after the power state is switched from the on state to the off state.
17. The information apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: a processor comprising hardware, the processor being configured to: determine a use situation based on an operating rate per unit time of the information apparatus, wherein the use situation includes at least one of (A) when the information apparatus has been used, (B) how the information apparatus has been used, (C) when the information apparatus has been unused, (D) a location where the information apparatus is used, (E) a maintenance state of a unit included in the information apparatus, (F) whether repair or replacement is necessary when replacement of a member or replacement of a consumable member has not been performed for a specified time, (G) a continuous operating state of the information apparatus, (H) deterioration of the information apparatus caused by heat generation, (I) a usage value based on a number of releases of a shutter of the information apparatus, (J) a wear state of a battery in the information apparatus, (K) a degree of shutter abrasion in the information apparatus, (L) a degree of deterioration of the battery based on an elapsed time from when the battery was last charged, and (M) a number of charging times of the battery; and transmit the use situation to the portable information terminal upon the occurrence of a predetermined condition.
18. The information apparatus of claim 1, wherein the manually set parameter includes at least one of (A) and aperture value (F value), (B) a shutter speed (SS), (C) an ISO sensitivity, (D) an exposure compensation value, (E) image processor parameter, (F) contrast value, (G) a sharpness value, (H) a saturation value, (I) a white balance value, (J) a gradation value, (K) a focal length, (L) a focus position, (M) a type of autofocus (AF) mode, (N) presence or absence of face detection, (O) setting state of special effect processing, and (P) type of image quality mode.
</claims>
</document>
