<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/08,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YEMBO
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA, VIKRAM
MOHAN, SIDDHARTH
RATTNER, ZACHARY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67475649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for providing AI-based cost estimates for services
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing AI-based relocation cost estimates for services and products are disclosed. The method may comprise receiving description data of a location, the description data generated via at least one or more of a camera, a user interface, and/or one or more environment sensors. The method may generate an inventory list comprising a plurality of items, utilizing the machine learning model, based on the description data, the inventory list further comprising inventory attributes associated with the plurality of items related to a context of the plurality of items in the location. The method may generate, utilizing the machine learning models, one or more interactive quotes for relocation cost estimates comprising at least one or more offers for products and/or services based on the plurality of items in the inventory list and the inventory attributes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system configured for providing one or more quotes for cost or work for relocation estimates, the system comprising: one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: receive, from a client computing device via a computer network, description data associated with a house, building or structure, the description data generated by a camera of the client computing device; determine, by the one or more hardware processors, whether the description data, acquired with at least the camera, clearly acquired the plurality of items; generate, by the one or more hardware processors in response to at least one of the plurality of items determined as being unclear, a user directive at the client device instructing a user to change the description data, the user directive comprising one or more UI elements, voice, text, or haptic feedback; determine a location of the at least one of the plurality of items based on the description data from the camera, user input, or data from one or more environment sensors; generate, utilizing a machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, a plurality of inventory attributes associated with a plurality of items within the house, building, or structure, based on the received description data, wherein the inventory attributes comprise at least one of a size, weight, dimension, location, or object class of at least a portion of the plurality of items, wherein the determining of the inventory attributes of the at least one of the plurality of items utilizes the determined location; generate, utilizing a machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, an inventory list comprising a plurality of items based on the received description data and the item attributes; and generate, utilizing the machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, the one or more quotes associated with the house, building, or structure based on the plurality of items in the inventory list and the inventory attributes.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the description data comprises one or more media types, the media types comprising at least one or more of video data, image data, audio data, text data, user interface/display data, and/or sensor data, and wherein receiving description data further comprises receiving sensor data from one or more environment sensors, the one or more environment sensors comprising at least one of a GPS, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a barometer, or a microphone.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the inventory attributes comprise one or more of establishment attributes indicating at least physical dimensions of a building corresponding to the location, location attributes indicating locations of the items within the building and/or the structure, attributes of a set of objects indicating shared attributes of a set of items of the inventory list, attributes of an object indicating attributes of a specific item of the inventory list, and/or media attributes indicating attributes that apply to items within the scope of the one or more media types.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein receiving description data comprises receiving user demographic data, the user demographic data comprising physical characteristics of a user, socioeconomic information of the user, and/or geolocation information of the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions are configured such that generating the one or more quotes utilizing the machine learning model comprises causing the machine learning model to generate the one or more quotes further using user demographic data as inputs for the machine learning model.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the one or more quotes comprise one or more of a relocation cost estimate, and add-on relocation services and/or products comprising at least one or more of packing/unpacking services, dismantling/assembling, junk removal, donations, reseller marketplaces, packaging material, insurance/maintenance contracts on service.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to adjust the one or more quotes based on at least one or more of physical attributes of the plurality of items in the inventory list including fragile items, and/or small items, determined based on the inventory attributes, and physical attributes of the location including accessibility, distance from main road, and/or presence of elevators or stairs.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to adjust the one or more quotes based on at least one or more of historical and/or projected data for weather, road conditions, and demand for service.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the user directive comprises an indication to change the description data determined based on the user's location and a camera angle.
10. A computer program product for providing one or more quotes for cost or work for relocation estimates utilizing a machine learning model, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory, machine-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by one or more hardware processors, cause the one or more hardware processors to perform operations comprising: one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions to: receive, from a client computing device via a computer network, description data associated with a house, building or structure, the description data generated by a camera of the client computing device; determine, by the one or more hardware processors, whether the description data, acquired with at least the camera, clearly acquired the plurality of items; generate, by the one or more hardware processors in response to at least one of the plurality of items determined as being unclear, a user directive at the client device instructing a user to change the description data, the user directive comprising one or more UI elements, voice, text, or haptic feedback; determine a location of the at least one of the plurality of items based on the description data from the camera, user input, or data from one or more environment sensors; generate, utilizing the a machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, a plurality of inventory attributes associated with a plurality of items within the house, building, or structure, based on the received description data, wherein the inventory attributes comprise at least one of a size, weight, dimension, location, or object class of at least a portion of the plurality of items, wherein the determining of the inventory attributes of the at least one of the plurality of items utilizes the determined location; generate, utilizing a machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, an inventory list comprising a plurality of items based on the received description data and the item attributes; and generate, utilizing the machine learning model executed by the one or more hardware processors, the one or more quotes associated with the house, building, or structure based on the plurality of items in the inventory list and the inventory attributes.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the description data comprises one or more media types, the media types comprising at least one or more of video data, image data, audio data, text data, user interface/display data, and/or sensor data, and wherein receiving description data comprises receiving sensor data from one or more environment sensors, the one or more environment sensors comprising at least one of a GPS, an accelerometer, a gyroscope, a barometer, or a microphone.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the inventory attributes comprise one or more of establishment attributes indicating at least physical dimensions of a building corresponding to the location, location attributes indicating a location of the item within the building and/or the structure, attributes of a set of objects indicating shared attributes of a set of items of the inventory list, attributes of an object indicating attributes of a specific item of the inventory list, and/or media attributes indicating attributes that apply to items within the scope of the one or more media types.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein receiving description data comprises receiving user demographic data, the user demographic data comprising physical characteristics of a user, socioeconomic information of the user, and/or geolocation information of the user.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the one or more hardware processors configured by machine-readable instructions are configured such that generating the one or more quotes utilizing the machine learning model comprises causing the machine learning model to generate the one or more quotes further using user demographic data as inputs for the machine learning mode.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the one or more quotes comprise one or more of a relocation cost estimate, and add-on relocation services and/or products comprising at least one or more of packing/unpacking services, dismantling/assembling, junk removal, donations, reseller marketplaces, packaging material, insurance/maintenance contracts on service.
16. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the one or more hardware processors are configured to adjust the one or more quotes based on at least one or more of physical attributes of the plurality of items in the inventory list including fragile items, and/or small items, determined based on the inventory attributes, and physical attributes of the location including accessibility, distance from main road, and/or presence of elevators or stairs.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the one or more hardware processors are further configured to adjust the one or more quotes based on at least one or more of historical and/or projected data for weather, road conditions, and demand for service.
18. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the user directive comprises an indication to change the description data determined based on the user's location and a camera angle.
</claims>
</document>
