<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906,G06F9/455,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G08B21/02,G08B21/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, CORVILLE
KWATRA, SHIKHAR
WILSON, JOHN
FOX, JEREMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71405107
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for managing hazard risk based on location and incident data
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for managing hazard risk by one or more processors are described. A presence of an individual at a location is detected. A hazard risk score is calculated based on at least one data source associated with at least one of the individual and the location. A notification of the calculated hazard risk score is caused to be generated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, by one or more processors, for managing hazard risk comprising: detecting a presence of an individual at a location, the location comprising a certain geographical position; assigning a hazard risk score based on at least one data source associated with at least one of the individual and the location, wherein the hazard risk score is representative of a risk of injury to the individual at the location stemming from detected prior incidents at the location, and wherein detecting the prior incidents includes utilizing a deep learning neural network (DLNN) machine learning algorithm to analyze input features pertaining to geo-spatial conditions to perform object detection at the location from an incident vector matrix; and causing a notification of the assigned hazard risk score to be generated.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the assigning of the hazard risk score is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data source includes data associated with the presence of other individuals at the location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data source includes data collected by a mobile electronic device associated with the individual.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data source includes an online data source associated with the location.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data source includes environmental factors associated with the location, wherein the environmental factors are associated with at least one of floor surface type at the location, steps at the location, and the presence of objects at the location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the causing of the notification of the calculated hazard risk score to be generated includes causing the notification to be rendered by a computing node associated with at least one of the individual and a caretaker of the individual.
8. A system for managing hazard risk comprising: at least one memory; and at least one processor executing instructions stored in the at least one memory; wherein the at least one processor, when executing the instructions: detects a presence of an individual at a location, the location comprising a certain geographical position; assigns a hazard risk score based on at least one data source associated with at least one of the individual and the location, wherein the hazard risk score is representative of a risk of injury to the individual at the location stemming from detected prior incidents at the location, and wherein detecting the prior incidents includes utilizing a deep learning neural network (DLNN) machine learning algorithm to analyze input features pertaining to geo-spatial conditions to perform object detection at the location from an incident vector matrix; and causes a notification of the assigned hazard risk score to be generated.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the assigning of the hazard risk score is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one data source includes data associated with the presence of other individuals at the location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one data source includes data collected by a mobile electronic device associated with the individual.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one data source includes an online data source associated with the location.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one data source includes environmental factors associated with the location, wherein the environmental factors are associated with at least one of floor surface type at the location, steps at the location, and the presence of objects at the location.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the causing of the notification of the calculated hazard risk score to be generated includes causing the notification to be rendered by a computing node associated with at least one of the individual and a caretaker of the individual.
15. A computer program product for managing hazard risk by one or more processors, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that detects a presence of an individual at a location, the location comprising a certain geographical position; an executable portion that assigns a hazard risk score based on at least one data source associated with at least one of the individual and the location, wherein the hazard risk score is representative of a risk of injury to the individual at the location stemming from detected prior incidents at the location, and wherein detecting the prior incidents includes utilizing a deep learning neural network (DLNN) machine learning algorithm to analyze input features pertaining to geo-spatial conditions to perform object detection at the location from an incident vector matrix; and an executable portion that causes a notification of the assigned hazard risk score to be generated.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the assigning of the hazard risk score is performed utilizing a cognitive analysis.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the at least one data source includes data associated with the presence of other individuals at the location.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the at least one data source includes data collected by a mobile electronic device associated with the individual.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the at least one data source includes an online data source associated with the location.
20. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the at least one data source includes environmental factors associated with the location, wherein the environmental factors are associated with at least one of floor surface type at the location, steps at the location, and the presence of objects at the location.
21. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the causing of the notification of the calculated hazard risk score to be generated includes causing the notification to be rendered by a computing node associated with at least one of the individual and a caretaker of the individual.
</claims>
</document>
