<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/24,G06F3/0481,G06F40/174,G16H10/60,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MMODAL IP
MModal IP, LLC
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRITSCH, JUERGEN
KOLL, DETLEF
FINKE, MICHAEL
ABOVYAN, ANNA
SCOTT, CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50067176
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Maintaining a discrete data representation that corresponds to information contained in free-form text
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a data record (such as an Electronic Medical Record (EMR)) and a user interface for modifying (e.g., storing data in) the data record. The data record includes both free-form text elements and discrete data elements. The user interface includes user interface elements for receiving free-form text data. In response to receiving free-form text data via the free-form text user interface elements, a suggested action is identified, such as a suggested action to take in connection with one of the discrete data elements of the data record. Output is generated representing the suggested action. A user provides input indicating acceptance or rejection of the suggested action. The suggested action may be performed in response to the user input.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying, based on free-form text, a plurality of suggested actions for discrete data elements, and for performing at least one of the plurality of suggested actions, the method performed by at least one computer processor, the method comprising: (A) receiving the free-form text via a free-form text user interface element of a user interface; (B) identifying, based on the free-form text, a plurality of discrete data elements of a data structure; (C) identifying, based on the free-form text, the plurality of suggested actions, wherein the plurality of suggested actions comprises, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, a corresponding suggested action S comprising: storing a value in the discrete data element D, removing a current value of the discrete data element D, or performing a specified operation on a current value of the discrete data element D to produce a new value of the discrete data element D; and (D) performing the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (E) after identifying the plurality of suggested actions, providing output representing, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, the corresponding suggested action S.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein (E) comprises: generating visual and/or auditory output representing the corresponding suggested action S.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein (E) comprises modifying, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, a state of a corresponding discrete data user interface element in the user interface to cause the corresponding discrete data user interface element to reflect an outcome of performing the corresponding suggested action S.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein (E) comprises displaying, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, an instruction to modify a state of a discrete data user interface element corresponding to the discrete data element D in the user interface.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: (F) receiving a user input indicating user's acceptance of the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions, wherein the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions is performed in response to the receiving the user input.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein (F) comprises receiving a user input to modify a state of a discrete data user interface element in the user interface.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: (G) storing a record of the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions and the user input; (H) repeating (A)-(F) at least once to produce a plurality of stored records of the plurality of suggested actions and a plurality of corresponding user inputs; and (I) modifying a process used to identify the plurality of suggested actions based on the plurality of stored records.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the received user input includes one of: a different response input corresponding to each suggested action of the plurality of suggested actions, and a single response input corresponding to all of the plurality of suggested actions.
10. The method of claim 6, further comprising: (G) displaying output representing outcome of performing the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the data structure comprises an electronic medical record.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein (C) comprises: (C) (1) identifying a concept based on the free-form text; (C) (2) determining, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, whether the concept is consistent with the discrete data element D; and (C) (3) in response to determining that the concept is not consistent with the discrete data element D, identifying a suggested action, wherein the identified suggested action causes the discrete data element D to be consistent with the concept.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein (C) (1) comprises periodically submitting some or all of the free-form text to a natural language understanding (NLU) service that collects information from the free-form text to identify the concept.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: (E) before receiving the free-form text, receiving a patient identifier, and (F) before identifying the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, identifying the data structure associated with the patient identifier.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the plurality of suggested actions is further based on data comprised in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising computer program instructions executable by at least one computer processor to perform a method, the method comprising: (A) receiving free-form text via a free-form text user interface element of a user interface; (B) identifying, based on the free-form text, a plurality of discrete data elements of a data structure; (C) identifying, based on the free-form text, a plurality of suggested actions, wherein the plurality of suggested actions comprises, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, a corresponding suggested action S comprising: storing a value in the discrete data element D, removing a current value of the discrete data element D, or performing a specified operation on a current value of the discrete data element D to produce a new value of the discrete data element D; and (D) performing at least one of the plurality of suggested actions.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: (E) after identifying the plurality of suggested actions, providing output representing, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, the corresponding suggested action S.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein (E) comprises: generating visual and/or auditory output representing the corresponding suggested action S.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein (E) comprises modifying, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, a state of a corresponding discrete data user interface element in the user interface to cause the corresponding discrete data user interface element to reflect an outcome of performing the corresponding suggested action S.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein (E) comprises displaying, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, an instruction to modify a state of a discrete data user interface element corresponding to the discrete data element D in the user interface.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the method further comprises: (F) receiving a user input indicating user's acceptance of the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions, wherein the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions is performed in response to the receiving the user input.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein (F) comprises receiving a user input to modify a state of a discrete data user interface element in the user interface.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises: (G) storing a record of the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions and the user input; (H) repeating (A)-(F) at least once to produce a plurality of stored records of the plurality of suggested actions and a plurality of corresponding user inputs; and (I) modifying a process used to identify the plurality of suggested actions based on the plurality of stored records.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the received user input includes one of: a different response input corresponding to each suggested action of the plurality of suggested actions, and a single response input corresponding to all of the plurality of suggested actions.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 21, wherein the method further comprises: (G) displaying output representing outcome of performing the at least one of the plurality of suggested actions.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the data structure comprises an electronic medical record.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein (C) comprises: (C) (1) identifying a concept based on the free-form text; (C) (2) determining, for each discrete data element D in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, whether the concept is consistent with the discrete data element D; and (C) (3) in response to determining that the concept is not consistent with the discrete data element D, identifying a suggested action, wherein the identified suggested action causes the discrete data element D to be consistent with the concept.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 27, wherein (C) (1) comprises periodically submitting some or all of the free-form text to a natural language understanding (NLU) service that collects information from the free-form text to identify the concept.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein method further comprises: (E) before receiving the free-form text, receiving a patient identifier, and (F) before identifying the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure, identifying the data structure associated with the patient identifier.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the identifying the plurality of suggested actions is further based on data comprised in the plurality of discrete data elements of the data structure.
</claims>
</document>
