<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H05K7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (USAA)
UIPCO
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHILBRICK, ASHLEY RAINE
Post, Nathan Lee
Russell, Ryan Thomas
Culbertson, II, William Preston
Osterkamp, Bryan J.
St. Martin, Courtney
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74067121
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Climate control system
</title>

<abstract>
A climate control system for electronic equipment may include an electronic equipment room including a plurality of peripheral walls defining a chamber configured to receive a plurality of pieces of electronic equipment and having one or more interior partitions dividing the chamber into two or more subchambers. In addition, the system may also include a cooling system configured to provide the two or more subchambers with different levels of cooling, wherein at least one partition of the one or more interior partitions is movable from a first position defining a first subchamber to a second position defining a second subchamber in a different area of the room than the first subchamber.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A climate control system for electronic equipment, comprising: an electronic equipment room including a plurality of peripheral walls defining a chamber configured to receive a plurality of pieces of electronic equipment and having one or more interior partitions dividing the chamber into two or more subchambers; and a cooling system configured to provide the two or more subchambers with different levels of cooling; wherein at least one partition of the one or more interior partitions is movable from a first position defining a first subchamber to a second position defining a second subchamber in a different area of the room than the first subchamber; wherein the first subchamber is cooled by a first heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) unit and the second subchamber is cooled by second HVAC unit; and wherein the system is configured to use the first HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to the area that is enclosable to form the second subchamber and to use the second HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to the area that is enclosable to form the first subchamber.
2. The climate control system of claim 1, further including a system controller having a device processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions executable by the device processor for controlling operation of the movable partition based on cooling requirements of the electronic equipment in the room.
3. The climate control system of claim 2, wherein the room contains two or more pieces of equipment configured to handle internet data, and wherein the computer readable medium further includes instructions for directing internet traffic through equipment disposed in a subchamber receiving a higher level of cooling.
4. The climate control system of claim 2, wherein the room contains two or more pieces of equipment configured to handle internet data; and wherein the computer readable medium includes instructions for: controlling operation of the movable partition to enclose equipment having similar cooling requirements in a subchamber of the room.
5. The climate control system of claim 2, wherein the room contains two or more pieces of equipment configured to handle internet data; and wherein the computer readable medium includes instructions for: controlling operation of the movable partition to enclose equipment receiving a higher level of internet traffic in a subchamber of the room; and providing an increased level of cooling to the subchamber receiving the higher level of internet traffic.
6. The climate control system of claim 5, wherein the higher level of cooling includes at least one or more of the following: lower ambient temperature; circulation of cooler air; and greater volumetric flow of air.
7. The climate control system of claim 5, wherein the computer readable medium includes instructions for using machine learning to determine where the most cooling is needed in the room.
8. The climate control system of claim 1, wherein electronic equipment that uses WIFI is disposed in a subchamber to which greater cooling is provided than other areas of the equipment room.
9. The climate control system of claim 1, wherein the cooling system further includes a third HVAC unit.
10. The climate control system of claim 9, wherein the third HVAC unit is configured to provide backup for either or both of the first HVAC unit and/or the second HVAC unit.
11. A climate control system for electronic equipment, comprising: an electronic equipment room including a plurality of peripheral walls defining a chamber configured to receive a plurality of pieces of electronic equipment and having one or more interior partitions dividing the chamber into two or more subchambers; and a cooling system configured to provide the two or more subchambers with different levels of cooling; wherein the room contains two or more pieces of equipment configured to handle internet data, and a system controller having a device processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions executable by the device processor for directing internet traffic through equipment disposed in a subchamber receiving a higher level of cooling; wherein a first subchamber is cooled by a first heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) unit and a second subchamber is cooled by second HVAC unit; and wherein the system is configured to use the first HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to an area of the room that is enclosable to form the second subchamber and to use the second HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to an area of the room that is enclosable to form the first subchamber.
12. The climate control system of claim 11, wherein the cooling system further includes a third HVAC unit.
13. The climate control system of claim 12, wherein the third HVAC unit is configured to provide backup for either or both of the first HVAC unit and/or the second HVAC unit.
14. The climate control system of claim 11, wherein the higher level of cooling includes at least one or more of the following: lower ambient temperature; circulation of cooler air; and greater volumetric flow of air.
15. A method for cooling electronic equipment, comprising: receiving, with a system controller, thermal requirements information from electronic equipment in a first area of a data center chamber, the system controller including a device processor and a non-transitory computer readable medium including instructions stored thereon and executable by the device processor; receiving, with the system controller, thermal requirements information from electronic equipment in a second area of a data center; comparing, with the system controller, the thermal requirements of the equipment in the first area to the thermal requirements of the equipment in the second area; controlling operation of a movable partition based on the comparative cooling requirements of the electronic equipment in the first and second areas to selectively divide the data center chamber into two or more subchambers, including a first subchamber including the first area of the data center chamber and the second subchamber including the second area of the data center chamber; and operating a cooling system to provide the first subchamber and the second subchamber with different levels of cooling from one another based on the comparative cooling requirements of the electronic equipment in the first and second areas; wherein cooling system includes a first heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) unit configured to provide cooling to the first subchamber and a second HVAC unit configured to provide cooling to the second subchamber; and wherein the method includes using the first HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to the second subchamber or using the second HVAC unit to provide backup cooling to the first subchamber.
16. The method of claim 15, further including using a third HVAC unit.
17. The method of claim 16, further including using the third HVAC unit to provide backup cooling for either or both of the first HVAC unit and/or the second HVAC unit.
18. The method of claim 15, further including directing internet traffic through equipment disposed in a subchamber receiving a higher level of cooling.
19. The method of claim 15, further including controlling operation of the movable partition to enclose equipment having similar cooling requirements in a subchamber of the room.
20. The method of claim 15, further including providing greater cooling in a subchamber where electronic equipment that uses WIFI is disposed.
</claims>
</document>
