<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/12,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABANDITH, MILONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69590849
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for machine learning classification on sensitive data for telemetry
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for machine learning classification of sensitive data includes a multifunction peripheral having an intelligent controller with a processor and associated memory, and print and scan engines operable in connection with instructions received from the controller. The processor receives electronic document data comprised of a plurality of electronic documents. The processor applies machine learning to the electronic document data and extracts metadata comprised as data patterns which are stored in memory. The processor generates pattern classifications from extracted data patterns to generate telemetry data. Generated telemetry data is sent to an associated server via the network interface. The server provides analytics on received telemetry data to provide enhancements for improving the multifunction peripheral.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multifunction peripheral comprising: an intelligent controller having a processor and associated memory; a scan engine operable in connection with instructions received from the controller; a print engine operable in connection with instructions received from the controller to print electronic documents; and a network interface, wherein the processor is configured to receive electronic document data comprised of a plurality of electronic documents including sensitive or private print content, wherein the processor is further configured to apply machine learning to the electronic document data to extract metadata which excludes the sensitive or private print content, which metadata is comprised as data patterns associated with the sensitive or private print content, wherein the memory is configured to store metadata corresponding to the electronic documents, which metadata excludes the sensitive or private print content, wherein the processor is further configured to generate pattern classifications from extracted data patterns, wherein the processor is further configured to generate telemetry data corresponding to generated data patterns, and wherein the processor is further configured to send generated telemetry data to an associated server via the network interface.
2. The multifunction peripheral of claim 1 wherein the processor is further configured to reconfigure the multifunction peripheral in accordance with feedback from the associated server generated by application of machine learning on the generated telemetry data.
3. The multifunction peripheral of claim 2 wherein the processor is further configured to reconfigure the multifunction peripheral to accommodate a hardware change to the multifunction peripheral specified in accordance with the feedback.
4. The multifunction peripheral of claim 2 wherein the processor is further configured to reconfigure the multifunction peripheral to accommodate a software change to the multifunction peripheral specified in accordance with the feedback.
5. The multifunction peripheral of claim 1 wherein the electronic document data includes data corresponding to different document content types included in the plurality of electronic documents.
6. The multifunction peripheral of claim 5 wherein the content types include documents with graphic content and documents with character content.
7. The multifunction peripheral of claim 6 wherein the content types further include languages associated with character content.
8. The multifunction peripheral of claim 7 wherein the content types further include image content.
9. A method comprising: acquiring electronic document data in accordance with electronic documents generated from printed document content from scanning operations and print content of electronic documents used in printing operations on a multifunction peripheral, wherein the electronic document data includes sensitive or private document content; applying, via a processor of the multifunction peripheral, machine learning to the electronic document data metadata comprised of extracted patterns which exclude the sensitive or private document content while being associated with the sensitive or private document content; storing metadata corresponding to the electronic documents in a memory; generating pattern classifications from extracted data patterns; generating telemetry data corresponding to generated data patterns; and generating telemetry data to an associated server via a network interface of the multifunction peripheral.
10. The method of claim 9 further comprising reconfiguring the multifunction peripheral in accordance with feedback from the associated server generated by application of machine learning on the generated telemetry data.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising reconfiguring the multifunction peripheral to accommodate a hardware change to the multifunction peripheral specified in accordance with the feedback.
12. The method of claim 10 further comprising reconfiguring the multifunction peripheral to accommodate a software change to the multifunction peripheral specified in accordance with the feedback.
13. The method of claim 9 wherein the electronic document data includes data corresponding to different document content types included in the plurality of electronic documents.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the content types include documents with graphic content and documents with character content.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the content types further include languages associated with character content.
16. The method of claim 14 wherein the content types further include image content.
17. A system comprising: a multifunction peripheral including, an intelligent controller having a controller processor and associated controller memory, a scan engine operable in connection with instructions received from the controller, a print engine operable in connection with instructions received from the controller, and a multifunction peripheral network interface, wherein the controller is configured to receive electronic document data comprised of a plurality of printable electronic documents, wherein the controller memory is configured to store metadata corresponding to sensitive or private print content of the electronic documents, wherein the controller is further configured to apply machine learning to the electronic document data extract data patterns associated with the sensitive or private print content but which exclude the sensitive or private print content, wherein the controller is further configured to generate pattern classifications from extracted data patterns, wherein the controller is further configured to generate telemetry data corresponding to generated data patterns, and wherein the processor is further configured to send generated telemetry data to a server via the multifunction peripheral network interface; and the server including, a server processor, a server memory, and a server network interface configured to receive telemetry data from the multifunction peripheral, wherein the server processor is configured to apply machine analytics to received telemetry data, and wherein the server processor is further configured to generate recommendations relative to operation of the multifunction peripheral in accordance with applied machine analytics.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the electronic document data includes data corresponding to different document content types included in the plurality of electronic documents.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein the electronic document data includes metadata associated with the electronic documents corresponding to an associated industry type.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein the recommendations include a hardware modification or a software modification for the multifunction peripheral.
</claims>
</document>
