<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/30,G06F19/00,G06F21/62,G16H10/60,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELUCID BIOIMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUCKLER, ANDREW, J.
BUCKLER, MARY
MA, XIAONAN
MARTELL, LARRY
MOULTON KEITH A.
PAIK DAVID S.
ST. PIERRE, SAMANTHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57994245
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for representing, storing, and accessing computable medical imaging-derived quantities
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are disclosed for structuring and using information pertinent to in vivo biomarkers, specifically quantitative imaging biomarkers, using semantic web technology for personalized medicine and discovery science. It supports the development and application of statistical evidence at a level of granularity and sophistication more closely tied to the complexity of the disease itself and its underlying biology, including technology linking multiple biological scales, than has previously been eedisclosed. It provides data and computational services to analyze quantitative imaging and non-imaging data, coupled with multi-scale modeling to elucidate pre-symptomatic and clinical disease processes. It may be used to assess technical or analytical performance for its own sake and/or to further annotate the quantitative analysis. It supports statistical hypothesis testing to determine and present analytical performance, determine the clinical relevance and establish to what extent a biomarker is causally rather than coincidentally related in clinical contexts of use.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for making imaging-derived information accessible to computational applications, the system comprising: one or more processors, and non-transitory computer usable media, having computer readable code embodied therein, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to: produce a semantically expressive knowledge graph for a plurality of patients, where producing the knowledge graph includes for each of the plurality of patients: characterizing the patient based on one or more elements of an identification scheme and storing the characterization of the patient in the knowledge graph, the identification scheme comprising demographics of the patient, observations about the patient, and diagnostic findings for the patient; characterizing one or more anatomical regions of interest for the patient as targets to support tracking in the knowledge graph of at least one of a given anatomy, suspected pathology, confirmed pathology, or medical intervention at one or more timepoints; storing access information to one or more medical images of each target at each one of said one or more timepoints in the knowledge graph; performing a hierarchical analysis on the one or more medical images for each target at each time point, the hierarchical analysis including determining and storing in the knowledge graph each of (i) imaging features calculated from the one or more medical images, (ii) quantitative properties for objectively verifiable biological analytes derived from the imaging features, and (iii) phenotypes or predictive outcomes derived from the quantitative properties for the objectively verifiable biological analytes; and wherein the knowledge graph provides for semantic search ability, without requiring predefined queries.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to analyze the knowledge graph by proving or disproving a hypothesis related to at least one of: (i) tracking of a given anatomy, (ii) tracking of a suspected pathology, (iii) confirmation of a given pathology, or (iv) an effectiveness of a given medical intervention.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the hypothesis is applied to one or more of clinical decision support, disease modeling, disease discovery research, developing a data set for training machine learning algorithm, and qualification of imaging biomarkers.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the tested hypotheses provide evidence demonstrating proof of performance for regulatory approval for clinical use or regulatory qualification for research use.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to analyze the knowledge graph by querying the knowledge graph to determine at least one of (i) clinical relevance of measurements of a given anatomy, (ii) clinical relevance of measurements of a suspected pathology, (iii) confirmation of a given pathology, or (iv) an effectiveness of a given medical intervention.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code further causes the one or more processors to evaluate phenotype predictors at one or more time points so as to characterize a physiological condition at a given time or characterize how a physiological condition changes across time.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to use the knowledge graph to perform a statistical evaluation of performance of the hierarchical analysis across a plurality of patients.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the knowledge graph includes ground truth or validation reference information for one or more of the levels of the image analysis, wherein the statistical evaluation of performance includes a statistical evaluation of clinical performance comparing one or more of the levels of image analysis to the ground truth or validation reference information.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the ground truth or validation reference information is derived independently from the hierarchical analysis.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the ground truth or validation reference information includes at least one of: (i) a objectively true measurement of one or more of the quantitative properties of the biologically objective analytes, (ii) a subjective determination of an image feature, a biologically objective analyte, a phenotype or a predictive outcome by an expert clinician or other alternative source or (iii) an observed outcome.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the statistical evaluation of performance includes a statistical evaluation of analytical performance including determining one or more performance metrics characterizing one or more of the levels of image analysis.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the statistical evaluation of performance includes one or more of the following metrics: offset, precision, standard deviation, RMS Error, or limit of quantitation (LOQ).
13. The system of claim 7, wherein performing the statistical evaluation of performance includes performing scripted operations executed in a batch.
14. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to extend the knowledge graph to include the results of the statistical evaluation of performance.
15. The system of claim 7, wherein querying information from the knowledge graph returns both queried results and corresponding statistical evaluation of performance for the queried results.
16. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to optimize the hierarchical analysis in the knowledge graph based on the statistical evaluation of performance.
17. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to validate the hierarchical analysis based on the statistical evaluation of performance.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein validating the hierarchical analysis includes validation for context of use including for one or more of: (i) a patient population, (ii) a pathology, (iii) a diagnostic purpose or (iv) a treatment type.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein validating the hierarchical analysis further includes determining a scope of generalization of the context of use.
20. The system of claim 7, wherein using the knowledge graph to perform a statistical evaluation of performance includes assessment of confidence in changes over time of elements or connections reflected in the knowledge graph.
21. The system of claim 7, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to report information from the knowledge graph for a single patient, where the report incorporates error propagation information derived from the statistical performance evaluation.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph is comprised of a set of RDF triples.
23. The system of claim 22 wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to: access predetermined data services; generate queries from the plurality of RDF triples; and use the queries and the predetermined data services to collect data sets from the knowledge graph according to inclusion criteria set after the data services are in operation.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein the data sets are used to test a hypothesis, the hypothesis related to at least one of: (i) tracking of a given anatomy, (ii) tracking of a suspected pathology, (iii) confirmation of a given pathology, or (iv) an effectiveness of a given medical intervention.
25. The system of claim 23 wherein the queries are SPARQL queries on the data services implemented so as to expose the SPARQL endpoints.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein the sematic search ability includes querying the knowledge graph using SPARQL queries so as to expose SPARQL endpoints.
27. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph does not require predefined relationships between data elements in the knowledge graph.
28. The system of claim 1, wherein information in the knowledge graph on the individual identity of a patient is stored in an encrypted data repository and accessed with encryption and non-identifiable information in the knowledge graph is stored in an non-encrypted data repository and accessed without encryption using anonymized keys.
29. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph includes a detailed audit trail of creation including contributor information and how, when and what contributions were made.
30. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph is iteratively updated using an artificial intelligence approach based on a blackboard architecture model.
31. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph includes a plurality of interconnected graphs distributed across separate computers or networks.
32. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph includes causal relationships across different biological scales.
33. The system of claim 1, wherein the hierarchical analysis incorporates one or more non-imaging inputs into a determination of analytes.
34. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to optimize a treatment for a patient based on the knowledge graph.
35. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to identify, based on the knowledge graph, biomarkers for use in early development of treatments that can be tested in trials as surrogates for treatment effects.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the identification of the biomarkers is based on inference.
37. The system of claim 35, wherein the identification of the biomarkers is based on joint and conditional probabilities.
38. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to apply one or more predictive models to derive phenotype information from a patient based on the knowledge graph.
39. The system of claim 1, wherein the identification scheme includes characterization across a plurality of biological scales.
40. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph supports the collection and summary of evidence for clinical relevance, validity, and/or utility.
41. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph includes multi-scale modeling which is used to determine causal relationships between biomarkers, pathology and clinical outcomes.
42. The system of claim 41, wherein the multi-scale modeling elucidates both pre-symptomatic and clinical disease processes.
43. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to determine a causal relationship between biomarkers, pathology and clinical outcomes.
44. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to use inference to establish a strength of surrogacy of proximal markers relative to a distal endpoint.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein using inference includes using performance metrics of the uncertainty in elements or connections reflected in the knowledge graph.
46. The system of claim 44, wherein using inference includes using predictive modeling based on the knowledge graph to determine surrogate markers.
47. The system of claim 1, wherein the knowledge graph includes linked data across different contexts of use.
48. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to determine personalized diagnostics based on performing inferential reasoning in the knowledge graph to optimize their treatment plan.
</claims>
</document>
