<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G07C9/00,G07C9/27,G07C9/28,G07C9/29
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARRIER CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLORENTINO, BLANCA
HADZIC, TARIK
BOUBEKEUR, MENOUER
TIWARI, ANKIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61622784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Spatio-temporal topology learning for detection of suspicious access behavior
</title>

<abstract>
A spatio-temporal topology learning system for detection of suspicious access control behavior in a physical access control system (PACS). The spatio-temporal topology learning system including an access pathways learning module configured to determine a set of spatio-temporal properties associated with a resource in the PACS, an inconsistency detection module in operable communication with the access pathways learning module, the inconsistencies detection module configured to analyze a plurality of historical access control events and identify an inconsistency with regard to the set of spatio-temporal properties, and if an inconsistency is detected, at least one of the events is flagged as potentially suspicious access control behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A spatio-temporal topology learning system for detection of suspicious access control behavior in a physical access control system (PACS), the spatio-temporal topology learning system comprising: an access pathways learning module configured to determine a set of spatio-temporal properties associated with a resource in the PACS; an inconsistency detection module in operable communication with the access pathways learning module, the inconsistencies detection module configured to analyze a plurality of historical access control events and identify an inconsistency with regard to the set of spatio-temporal properties; and if an inconsistency is detected, at least one of the events is flagged as potentially suspicious access control behavior; wherein the spatio-temporal properties include a reachability graph; wherein the spatio-temporal topology learning system refines the reachability graph based on an initial estimate of the notional distance between readers determined as the minimum difference between access event time stamps at two connected readers; the inconsistency detection module detecting the inconsistency in response to the refined reachability graph.
2. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein the spatio-temporal properties are based on at least one of a cardholder identity, a resource to which access is desired, the resource associated with a reader and a door controlling access to the resource, a time zone specifying the time of the day when access to the resource is required, and a history of access events.
3. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 2 wherein the spatio-temporal properties are based on a rule that a first reader can be reached from a second reader if there exists two consecutive access events for any cardholder that accesses the first reader and the second reader.
4. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 further including further refining the reachability graph by labeling access pathways based on a profile of at least one cardholder of a plurality of cardholders in the PACS.
5. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 further including further refining the reachability graph based on at least one of attributes associated with at least one user and an intelligent map of a facility using the PACS to form the refined reachability graph.
6. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 5 wherein the attribute is specific to the user.
7. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 5 wherein the attribute is generic to a group of users.
8. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 5 wherein the attribute is at least one of a user's role, a user's department, a badge type, a badge/card ID.
9. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein an inconsistency includes any instance where consecutive events are impossible.
10. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein an inconsistency includes a cardholder accessing a first door at a selected physical distance from a second door within less than a selected time.
11. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein an inconsistency includes a card holder accessing a first door without also having accessed a second door in between.
12. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein an inconsistency includes a card holder accessing a first door without also having accessed a second door in between the first door and a third door.
13. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 wherein the flagged event is reported and provided with an explanation of a context of the inconsistency.
14. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 further including updating a knowledge database of inconsistencies, the knowledge database employed in the identifying an inconsistency.
15. The spatio-temporal topology learning system of claim 1 further including an administrator reviewing the suggested flagged inconsistencies.
16. A physical access control system (PACS) with spatio-temporal topology learning system for detection of suspicious access control behavior, the physical access control system comprising: a credential including user information stored thereon, the credential presented by a user to request access to a resource protected by a door; a reader in operative communication with the credential and configured to read user information from the credential; a controller executing a set of access control permissions for permitting access of the user to the resource, the permissions generated with access control request manager based on learning profile based access pathways comprising: an access pathways learning module configured to determine a set of spatio-temporal properties associated with each resource in the PACS; an inconsistency detection module in operable communication with the access pathways learning module, the inconsistencies detection module configured to: analyze a plurality of historical access control events and identify an inconsistency with regard to the set of spatio-temporal properties; if an inconsistency is detected, at least one of the events is flagged as potentially suspicious access control behavior; and wherein the controller is disposed at an access point to permit access to the resource; wherein the spatio-temporal properties include a reachability graph; wherein the spatio-temporal topology learning system refines the reachability graph based on an initial estimate of the notional distance between readers determined as the minimum difference between access event time stamps at two connected readers; the inconsistency detection module detecting the inconsistency in response to the refined reachability graph.
17. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein the spatio-temporal properties are based on at least one of a cardholder identity, a resource to which access is desired, the resource associated with a reader and a door controlling access to the resource, a time zone specifying the time of the day when access to the resource is required, and a history of access events.
18. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein the spatio-temporal properties are based on a rule that a first reader can be reached from a second reader if there exists two consecutive access events for any cardholder that accesses the first reader and the second reader.
19. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein an inconsistency includes any instance where consecutive events are impossible.
20. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein an inconsistency includes a car holder accessing a first access point at a selected physical distance from a second access point within less than a selected time.
21. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein an inconsistency includes a card holder accessing a first access point without also having accessed a second access point in between.
22. The physical access control system of claim 16 wherein an inconsistency includes a card holder accessing a first access point without also having accessed a second access point in between the first door and a third access point.
</claims>
</document>
