<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/14,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04M15/00,H04N21/2385,H04N21/254,H04N21/2543,H04N21/258,H04N21/262,H04N21/2665,H04N21/2668,H04N21/426,H04N21/44,H04N21/4408,H04N21/458,H04N21/4627,H04N21/61,H04N21/81,H04N7/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EDGE2020
</assignee>

<inventors>
GATES, TELL ALLEN
HIRSCH, RONALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57147023
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hybrid video time-bandwidth product improvement (HVTBPI) reception
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure is directed to an apparatus that can include a first receiver, a second receiver, a video demultiplexor, and an assembly engine. The first receiver can receive multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement, the multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement being received over a reduced number of broadcast channels to release at least one of bandwidth and radio frequency spectrum, not included in the reduced number of broadcast channels, for other applications. The second receiver can receive unavailable other content, the unavailable other content being other content that is different from the multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement and unavailable to the apparatus. The video demultiplexor can demultiplex the received multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement from the reduced number of broadcast channels to produce a multimedia content and an advertisement and store, within a storage device, the multimedia content and the advertisement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a first receiver to receive multiplexed multimedia content, the multiplexed multimedia content being received over a reduced number of broadcast channels to release at least one of bandwidth and radio frequency spectrum, not included in the reduced number of broadcast channels, for other applications; a second receiver to receive unavailable other content for storage within a storage device, the unavailable other content being other content that is both different from the multiplexed multimedia content and currently not stored by the apparatus, the unavailable other content becoming available other content once stored by the apparatus; a video demultiplexor to demultiplex the received multiplexed multimedia content from the reduced number of broadcast channels to produce a multimedia content and store, within the storage device, the multimedia content; and an assembly engine to retrieve at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content from the storage device and output at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content to a display device.
2. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the multiplexed multimedia content received by the first receiver further includes an advertisement, and the unavailable other content is both different from the multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement and currently not stored by the apparatus; the video demultiplexor further to demultiplex the received the multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement from the reduced number of broadcast channels to produce the multimedia content and an advertisement and store, within the storage device, the multimedia content and the advertisement; and the assembly engine to further retrieve at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content from the storage device and output at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content to a display device.
3. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver further receives an insertion instruction instructing the apparatus where to insert the advertisement into at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content, and the assembly engine further inserts the advertisement into at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content, based on the insertion instruction.
4. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first receiver and the second receiver further receive at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the unavailable other content, for at least one of storage within the storage device for future display on the display device and for output to the display device as being received by at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver, respectively.
5. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement eliminates repetition of at least one of the advertisement within the reduced number of broadcast channels and repetition of the multimedia content within the reduced number of broadcast channels.
6. The apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising at least one of internal storage and external storage, to store the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content.
7. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the unavailable other content is recommended content for a subscriber, the recommended content being at least one of non-linear manifold formulated recommended content, collaborative filtering formulated recommended content, content-based filtered recommended content, demographic recommended content, knowledge-based recommended content, and combination recommended content including at least two of the non-linear manifold formulated recommended content, collaborative filtering formulated recommended content, content-based filtered recommended content, demographic recommended content, and knowledge-based recommended content.
8. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the advertisement is scheduled for delivery to the apparatus at least one of prior to presentation of the advertisement by the apparatus and currently with a broadcast of the advertisement to the apparatus.
9. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein: at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, the unavailable other content, the available other content is particular content, the with at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver to further receive decryption information and unique re-encryption information associated with the apparatus and the particular content; and the apparatus further comprising a system processor to decrypt and uniquely re-encrypt the particular content and, in response to a subscriber request to play the particular content, the at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver further receives at least one unique decryption key, with the system processor further to decrypt the particular content using the at least one unique decryption key and present the particular content to a subscriber.
10. The apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the apparatus sends feedback information to identify at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content that is at least one of currently being viewed with the apparatus and currently being stored by the apparatus, to further reduce the reduced number of broadcast channels.
11. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a system processor to perform intelligent aggregation to group at least one of particular multimedia content and/or advertising for simultaneous delivery to a plurality of apparatuses, to reduce at least one of an amount and a repetition of at least one of the multimedia content and an advertisement delivered in a given period of time to release at least one of bandwidth and radio frequency spectrum.
12. The apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a system processor to determine the unavailable other content and formulate a request for the unavailable other content.
13. The apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the request is automatically generated based on at least one of viewing history, a subscriber account profile, advertiser requests and parameters, and interactions of a subscriber with the apparatus.
14. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the unavailable other content is content that is at least one of currently not stored by the apparatus and currently not being received by the apparatus.
15. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the reduced number of broadcast channels are broadcast over and the unavailable other content is received by the apparatus via at least one of the over-the-air broadcast, wired, wireless, optical, satellite, cellular, and the Internet.
16. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the system controller further electronically controls delivery of the unavailable other content to the apparatus.
17. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the multimedia content, the unavailable other content, and the available other content is particular multimedia content: the apparatus further comprising a system processor to update a subscriber content price for the particular multimedia content based on at least one of selecting the particular multimedia content for viewing, selecting a time/date for viewing of the particular multimedia content, modifying at least one of a time/date the particular multimedia content is scheduled to be viewed, a scheduled lead-time of electronic delivery of the particular multimedia content, a maximum price for a billing period, an allowed amount of advertising to be inserted in the particular multimedia content, a multimedia content resolution, and targeted, non-targeted, and subscriber requested advertising types to be inserted into the particular multimedia content; and the second receiver further to receive the updated subscriber content price for the particular multimedia content based on the modification.
18. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is at least partially implemented with at least one of a local computing, mobile computing, distributed computing, and cloud-based computing.
19. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the apparatus is at least partially implemented with at least one of a carrier supplied customer premise equipment, a digital video recorder, a set top box, a video extender, a smart television, a personal computer, a tablet computer, a smart phone, and a software application.
20. The apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the unavailable other content includes at least one of additional multimedia content and an advertisement.
21. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first receiver, multiplexed multimedia content, the multiplexed multimedia content being received over a reduced number of broadcast channels to release at least one of bandwidth and radio frequency spectrum, not included in the reduced number of broadcast channels, for other applications; receiving, by a second receiver, unavailable other content, the unavailable other content being other content that is both different from the multiplexed multimedia content and currently not stored by an apparatus, the unavailable other content becoming available other content once stored by the apparatus; demultiplexing, by a video demultiplexor, the received multiplexed multimedia content from the reduced number of broadcast channels to produce a multimedia content and store, within a storage device, the multimedia content; retrieving, by an assembly engine, at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content from the storage device; and outputting, by the assembly engine, at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content to a display device.
22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the aggregated and multiplexed multimedia content received by the first receiver further includes an advertisement, and the unavailable other content is both different from the aggregated and multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement and currently not stored by the apparatus, the method further comprising: demultiplexing, by the video demultiplexor, the received aggregated and multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement from the reduced number of broadcast channels to produce the multimedia content and an advertisement and store, within the storage device, the multimedia content and the advertisement; and retrieving, by the assembly engine, at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content from the storage device and output at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content to a display device.
23. The method according to claim 22, further comprising: receiving, by at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver, an advertising insertion instruction; and inserting, by the assembly engine, the advertisement into at least one of the multimedia content and the available other content, based on the insertion instruction.
24. The method according to claim 22, further comprising receiving, by at least one of the second receiver and the second receiver, at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the unavailable other content, respectively, for at least one of storage within the storage device for future display on the display device and for output to the display device as being received by at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver, respectively.
25. The method according to claim 22, wherein multiplexed multimedia content and advertisement eliminates repetition of at least one of the advertisement within the reduced number of broadcast channels and repetition of the multimedia content within the reduced number of broadcast channels.
26. The method according to claim 22, further comprising storing, by at least one of an internal storage and an external storage, the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content.
27. The method according to claim 22, wherein at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the unavailable other content is recommended content for a subscriber, the recommended content being at least one of non-linear manifold formulated recommended content, collaborative filtering formulated recommended content, content-based filtered recommended content, demographic recommended content, knowledge-based recommended content, and combination recommended content including at least two of the non-linear manifold formulated recommended content, collaborative filtering formulated recommended content, content-based filtered recommended content, demographic recommended content, and knowledge-based recommended content.
28. The method according to claim 22, wherein the advertisement is scheduled for delivery to the apparatus at least one of prior to presentation of the advertisement by the apparatus and currently with a broadcast of the advertisement to the apparatus.
29. The method according to claim 22, wherein at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, the unavailable other content, the available other content is particular content, the method further comprising: receiving, by at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver, decryption information and unique re-encryption information associated with the apparatus and the particular content; and decrypting and uniquely re-encrypting, by a system processor, the particular content and, in response to a subscriber request to play the particular content; receiving, by at least one of the first receiver and the second receiver, at least one unique decryption key; decrypting, by the system processor, the particular content using the at least one unique decryption key; and presenting the particular content to a subscriber.
30. The method according to claim 22, further comprising sending, by the apparatus, feedback information to identify at least one of the multimedia content, the advertisement, and the available other content that is at least one of currently being viewed with the apparatus and currently being stored by the apparatus, to further reduce the reduced number of broadcast channels.
31. The method according to claim 22, further comprising performing, by the system processor, intelligent aggregation to group at least one of particular multimedia content and/or advertising for simultaneous delivery to a plurality of apparatuses, to reduce at least one of an amount and a repetition of at least one of the multimedia content and an advertisement delivered in a given period of time to release at least one of bandwidth and radio frequency spectrum.
32. The method according to claim 21, further comprising: determining, by a system processor, the unavailable other content; and formulating, by the system processor, a request for the unavailable other content.
33. The method according to claim 21, wherein the request is automatically generated based on at least one of viewing history, a subscriber account profile, advertiser requests and parameters, and interactions of a subscriber with the apparatus.
34. The method according to claim 21, wherein the unavailable other content is at least one of currently not stored by the apparatus and currently not being received by the apparatus.
35. The method according to claim 21, wherein the reduced number of broadcast channels are broadcast over and the unavailable other content is received by the apparatus via at least one of the over-the-air broadcast, wired, wireless, optical, satellite, cellular, and the Internet.
36. The method according to claim 21, further comprising electronically controlling, by the system controller, delivery of the unavailable other content to the apparatus.
37. The method according to claim 21, wherein at least one of the multimedia content, the unavailable other content, and the available other content is particular multimedia content, the method further comprising: updating, by a system processor, a subscriber content price for the particular multimedia content based on at least one of selecting the particular multimedia content for viewing, selecting a time/date for viewing of the particular multimedia content, modifying at least one of a time/date the particular multimedia content is scheduled to be viewed, a scheduled lead-time of electronic delivery of the particular multimedia content, a maximum price for a billing period, an allowed amount of advertising to be inserted in the particular multimedia content, a multimedia content resolution, and targeted, non-targeted, and subscriber requested advertising types to be inserted into the particular multimedia content; and receiving, by the second receiver, the updated subscriber content price for the particular multimedia content based on the modification.
38. The method according to claim 21, at least partially implementing the apparatus with at least one of a local computing, mobile computing, distributed computing, and cloud-based computing.
39. The method according to claim 21, further comprising at least partially implementing the apparatus with at least one of a carrier supplied customer premise equipment, a digital video recorder, a set top box, a video extender, a smart television, a personal computer, a tablet computer, a smart phone, and a software application.
40. The method according to claim 21, wherein the unavailable other content includes at least one of additional multimedia content and an advertisement.
</claims>
</document>
