<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K43/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/40,G06T7/90,H04N17/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MATRIXSPEC SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, LI
NGADI, MICHAEL
ZHENG, CHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56622388
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems, devices, and methods for detecting fertility and gender of unhatched non-incubated eggs
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems, devices, and methods for detecting characteristics of an unhatched egg. A set of images of an unhatched egg are obtained, where each of the spectral images is obtained in a particular wavelength range. The set of images is processed to extract image features, where the image features includes an image texture feature. The extracted image features are processed to classify the unhatched egg according to at least one characteristic. The at least one characteristic may include fertility and/or gender.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for detecting a characteristic of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, the device comprising: an imaging interface configured to receive a set of spectral images of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, each of the spectral images obtained in a particular wavelength range, the set of spectral images forming a three-dimensional data cube; a feature extractor configured to: combine a selected subset of the set of spectral images into a fused image, the selected subset comprising a different subset than all of the received set of spectral images; and process the fused image to extract image features, the image features including image texture features that describe spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image, the image texture features including an image texture feature having information associated with a spatial distribution of tonal variations within the particular wavelength range, the image texture feature comprising a second-order measure that reflects a relationship between neighbouring pixels in the fused image or the region of the fused image; and a classifier configured to process the extracted image features to classify the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg according to at least one characteristic selected from the group of gender of the unhatched non-incubated avian egg and fertility of the unhatched non-incubated avian egg; wherein the device transmits a control signal to actuate an apparatus according to the classified unhatched, non-incubated avian egg for separation of different classes of avian eggs.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the feature extractor is configured to select the image features from the fused image based on a particular characteristic of the at least one characteristic to be detected.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein said selecting the image features is based on eggshell colour and avian information.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein said combining the set of images into the fused image comprises selecting a subset of the images to combine into the fused image.
5. The device of claim 4, wherein said selecting the subset of the images is based on at least one of: a particular characteristic to be detected; or eggshell color and avian information.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the classifier is configured to provide an indicator of the at least one characteristic, as classified.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the image features include image texture features as a set of quantitative measures calculated in image processing to describe the spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the image features are selected from the group consisting of at least one first-order image feature and at least one second-order image feature.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the imaging interface is configured to determine that the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg is a white egg or a brown egg for calibration of an imaging system for generating the set of images.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the imaging interface is configured to accept laying avian information and eggshell color for calibration of an imaging system for generating the set of images.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the feature extractor is configured to process the fused image to detect regions of interest for filtering egg image data from background image data.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the device transmits the control signal to actuate the apparatus according to at least one characteristic to make physical contact with the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg to move or separate the classified unhatched, non-incubated avian egg based on the at least one characteristic.
13. A computer-implemented method of detecting a characteristic of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, the method comprising: receiving, by way of an image interface, a set of spectral images of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, each of the spectral images obtained in a particular wavelength range, the set of spectral images forming a three-dimensional data cube; combining, by at least one processor, a selected subset of the set of spectral images into a fused image, the selected subset comprising a different subset than all of the received set of spectral images; processing, by the at least one processor, the fused image to extract image features, the image features including image texture features that describe spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image, the image texture features including an image texture feature having information associated with a spatial distribution of tonal variations within the particular wavelength range, the image texture feature comprising a second-order measure that reflects a relationship between neighbouring pixels in the fused image or the region of the fused image; processing, by the at least one processor, the extracted image features to classify the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg according to at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of gender of the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg and fertility of the unhatched, non-incubated egg; and transmitting, by the at least one processor using a transceiver, data signals of results of the classified unhatched, non-incubated avian egg.
14. A system for detecting a characteristic of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, the system comprising: an imaging device for capturing a set of spectral images of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, each of the spectral images obtained in a particular wavelength range, the set of spectral images forming a three-dimensional data cube; at least one processor in communication with the imaging device, the at least one processor configured to: combine a selected subset of the set of spectral images into a fused image, the selected subset comprising a different subset than all of the received set of spectral images; process the fused image to extract image features, the image features including image texture features that describe spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image, the image texture features including an image texture feature having information associated with a spatial distribution of tonal variations within the particular wavelength range, the image texture feature comprising a second-order measure that reflects a relationship between neighbouring pixels in the fused image or region of the fused image; and process the extracted image features to classify the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg according to at least one characteristic selected from the group consisting of gender of the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg and fertility of the unhatched, non-incubated egg.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the imaging device comprises a spectrograph and a camera.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the imaging device is a hyperspectral imaging device.
17. The system of claim 14, comprising an actuating system to actuate an apparatus according to the classified unhatched, non-incubated avian egg.
18. A device for detecting a characteristic of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, the device comprising: an imaging interface coupled to a transceiver configured to receive a set of spectral images of an unhatched, non-incubated avian egg, each of the spectral images obtained in a particular wavelength range, the set of spectral images forming a three-dimensional data cube; a feature extractor configured to: combine a selected subset of the set of spectral images into a fused image, the selected subset comprising a different subset than all of the received set of spectral images; and process the fused image to extract image features, the image features including image texture features that contain data for spatial and spectral distribution of tonal or intensity variations within the particular wavelength range, the image texture features comprising a second-order measure reflecting a relationship between neighbouring pixels in the fused image or region of the fused image; a classifier configured to process the extracted image features to classify the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg according to fertility and gender; and a network interface coupled to the transceiver to transmit data signals of results of the classified unhatched, non-incubated avian egg and the fertility and the gender.
19. The device of claim 18 wherein the feature extractor is configured to process the fused image to detect regions of interest for filtering egg image data from background image data.
20. The system of claim 17 wherein the actuation system actuates the apparatus to physically move the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg to separate the unhatched, non-incubated avian egg into a different stream.
21. The device of claim 1 wherein image texture feature is a set of quantitative measures calculated in image processing designed to describe spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image.
22. The device of claim 1, wherein the image features are learned by an artificial intelligence system to describe spatial and spectral information of the fused image or a region of the fused image.
</claims>
</document>
