<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B21/00,G02B21/36,G06K9/32,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NANOTRONICS IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PUTMAN, MATTHEW, C.
PUTMAN; JOHN B.
SCOTT, BRANDON
ORLANDO, JULIE
FRANKEL, ADELE
CRUICKSHANK, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68536040
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for automatically mapping fluid objects on a substrate
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for mapping fluid objects on a substrate using a microscope inspection system that includes a light source, imaging device, stage for moving a substrate disposed on the stage, and a control module. A computer analysis system includes an object identification module that identifies for each of the objects on the substrate, an object position on the substrate including a set of X, Y, and θ coordinates using algorithms, networks, machines and systems including artificial intelligence and image processing algorithms. At least one of the objects is fluid and has shifted from a prior position or deformed from a prior size.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: performing, using a microscope inspection system comprising a microscope system and a computer analysis system, a scan of a set of objects disposed on a stage of the microscope system; identifying, for each object of the set of objects and by the computer analysis system, an object position on the stage using a set of artificial intelligence algorithms; determining, by the computer analysis system, that at least one object of the set of objects has shifted from a prior position or has deformed from a prior size; and generating, by the computer analysis system, object mapping information that reflects a position of each of the objects of the set of objects and a shift or deformity amount for each of the objects, the object mapping information generated using the set of artificial intelligence algorithms.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating an object layout map using the object mapping information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the microscope inspection system includes a low resolution objective and a high resolution objective.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer analysis system is configured to obtain a low or high resolution scan of the set of objects from the microscope inspection system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer analysis system is configured to detect one or more objects in the obtained low or high resolution scan using computer vision, one or more artificial intelligence algorithms and computer algorithms.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer analysis system is configured to apply the set of artificial intelligence algorithms to each object of the set of objects to: detect the object; determine an object type of the object; determine an orientation of the object; identify an imaging alignment position; and identify a starting scan position.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising aligning the stage and the set of objects to reflect the position of the at least one object of the set of objects that has shifted.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer analysis system uses the object mapping information to determine a set of coordinates of each object of the set of objects, an alignment position for each object of the set of objects, and a starting scan position for each object of the set of objects.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating a virtual tile that encompasses a set of dimensions of the at least one object of the set of objects, wherein the virtual tile is generated based on a deformation of the at least one object from the prior size.
10. A method comprising: providing a microscope inspection system comprising a microscope system and a computer analysis system; performing a scan of a set of objects disposed on a stage of the microscope system using the microscope inspection system; identifying, for each object of the set of objects, an object position on the stage using a set of artificial intelligence algorithms; and generating object mapping information that reflects the object position of each object of the set of objects and a shift or deformity amount for each object of the set of objects, wherein the object mapping information is generated using the set of artificial intelligence algorithms.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the computer analysis system is configured to obtain a low or high resolution scan of the set of objects from the microscope system.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the computer analysis system is configured to detect one or more objects from the set of objects in the obtained low or high resolution scan using computer vision, one or more artificial intelligence algorithms, and computer algorithms.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the computer analysis system uses the object mapping information in connection with a reference point on the stage to: determine a location of each object of the set of objects on the stage; determine an imaging alignment position for each object of the set of objects; and determine a starting scan position for each object of the set of objects.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the computer analysis system generates an alert when a location of an object of the set of objects exceeds a predefined tolerance for an object type being inspected.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the computer analysis system is implemented using a linear regression model or a multiple linear regression model to compare a predicted object position of each object of the set of objects to the object position of each object of the set of objects.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the computer analysis system obtains feedback data corresponding to changes to an object of the set of objects from an earlier position of the object.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the feedback data includes coordinates for each object of the set of objects at a specific stage in a manufacturing or examination process and an amount each object of the set of objects has deformed, shifted, and/or changed orientation during the manufacturing or examination process.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the computer analysis system: receives an initial object layout of the set of objects on the stage; and applies a layout prediction algorithm using artificial intelligence to determine a new object layout of the set of objects at a particular portion in the manufacturing or examination process.
19. The method of claim 10, further comprising generating a virtual tile that encompasses a set of dimensions of the an object of the set of objects, wherein the virtual tile is generated based on a deformation of the object from a prior size of the object.
20. A system for mapping objects comprising: a microscope inspection system including a microscope system that includes a stage for moving a set of objects disposed on the stage and an imaging device, wherein the imaging device scans the set of objects from the stage; and an object layout identification module for identifying, for each object of the set of objects, an object position on the stage using a set of artificial intelligence algorithms, wherein: at least one object of the set of objects has shifted from a prior position or deformed from a prior size; and the object layout identification module generates object mapping information that reflects a position of each of the objects of the set of objects or a deformity amount for each object of the set of objects.
</claims>
</document>
