<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/0968,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIELDS, BRIAN MARK
CIELOCHA, STEVEN C.
GAUDIN, KRISTOPHER KEITH
BAUMANN, NATHAN W.
ALT, JACOB J.
UPHOFF, LAURA A.
ROLL, GILES
WAZEER, MOHAMED A.
CHAN, LEO NELSON
DAVIS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60143282
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicular driver warnings
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are disclosed for providing vehicular driver alerts. In various aspects a vehicle operating environment may be monitored by one or more sensors associated with a first vehicle operating within the vehicle operating environment. The first vehicle may be determined to be in proximity to a second vehicle based upon sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors. An identifier associated with the second vehicle may be determined based upon the sensor data and the identifier may be used to receive evaluation data associated with the second vehicle. The evaluation data may indicate a quality level associated with operation of the second vehicle. Based upon the evaluation data, it may be determined that the second vehicle is associated with a heightened risk of a vehicle accident. A warning regarding the heighted risk may be generated and presented, by an output device, to a vehicle operator of the first vehicle.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of determining heighted vehicle risk within a vehicle operating environment, comprising: monitoring, using one or more sensors associated with a first vehicle, a vehicle operating environment in which the first vehicle is operating; determining, by one or more processors, the first vehicle is operating in proximity to a second vehicle based upon sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors; receiving, at one or more processors, evaluation data associated with the second vehicle, wherein the evaluation data (i) indicates a quality level associated with operation of the second vehicle, and (ii) originates from an occupant of the first vehicle; and determining, by one or more processors, that the second vehicle is associated with a heightened risk of a vehicle accident based upon the evaluation data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, via a transceiver associated with the first vehicle, a warning message to a third vehicle operating within the vehicle operating environment to alert an operator of the third vehicle to the determined heightened risk associated with the second vehicle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, an alternative route for the first vehicle to avoid the second vehicle; and causing, by a navigation system of the first vehicle, the first vehicle to follow the alternative route.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining the first vehicle is operating in proximity to the second vehicle includes determining that the second vehicle is operating within a monitoring threshold distance, wherein the monitoring threshold distance depends upon environmental conditions of the vehicle operating environment.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining an identifier associated with the second vehicle based upon vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications transmitted by a transceiver of the second vehicle and received at a transceiver of the first vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the determining that the second vehicle is associated with the heightened risk includes determining that a score associated with the second vehicle exceeds an alert threshold.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein: the score is selected from a plurality of scores within the profile, and the selected score is associated with one or more environmental conditions of the vehicle operating environment.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, a driver of the second vehicle, and wherein the received evaluation data is associated with the driver of the second vehicle.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising generating, by one or more processors, a warning regarding the heightened risk.
10. A computer system for determining heighted vehicle risk within a vehicle operating environment, comprising: one or more sensors associated with a first vehicle; one or more processors associated with the first vehicle and communicatively connected to the one or more sensors; an output device associated with the first vehicle and communicatively connected to the one or more processors; a program memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: monitor a vehicle operating environment in which the first vehicle is operating using the one or more sensors; determine the first vehicle is operating in proximity to a second vehicle based upon sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors; receive evaluation data associated with the second vehicle, wherein the evaluation data (i) indicates a quality level associated with operation of the second vehicle, and (ii) originates from an occupant of the first vehicle; and determine that the second vehicle is associated with a heightened risk of a vehicle accident based upon the evaluation data.
11. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising a transceiver associated with the first vehicle, wherein the program memory further stores instructions that cause the computer system to transmit a warning message to a third vehicle operating within the vehicle operating environment via the transceiver to alert an operator of the third vehicle to the determined heightened risk associated with the second vehicle.
12. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising a navigation system associated with the first vehicle, wherein the program memory further stores instructions that cause the computer system to: determine an alternative route for the first vehicle to avoid the second vehicle, and adjust operation of the navigation system to cause the first vehicle to follow the alternative route.
13. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to determine the first vehicle is operating in proximity to the second vehicle include instructions that cause the computer system to determine that the second vehicle is operating within a monitoring threshold distance, wherein the monitoring threshold distance depends upon environmental conditions of the vehicle operating environment.
14. The computer system of claim 10, further comprising a transceiver associated with the first vehicle, and an identifier associated with the second vehicle is determined based upon vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) communications from the second vehicle received at the transceiver.
15. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the instructions that cause the computer system to determine that the second vehicle is associated with the heightened risk include instructions that cause the computer system to determine that a score associated with the second vehicle exceeds an alert threshold.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein: the score is selected from a plurality of scores within the profile, and the selected score is associated with one or more environmental conditions of the vehicle operating environment.
17. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the program memory further stores instructions that cause the computer system to determine a driver of the second vehicle, and, wherein the received evaluation data is associated with the driver of the second vehicle.
18. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the program memory further stores instructions that cause the computer system to generate a warning regarding the heightened risk.
19. A tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for determining heighted vehicle risk within a vehicle operating environment that, when executed by one or more processors of a computer system, cause the computer system to: monitor a vehicle operating environment in which a first vehicle is operating using one or more sensors associated with the first vehicle; determine the first vehicle is operating in proximity to a second vehicle based upon sensor data obtained from the one or more sensors; receive evaluation data associated with the second vehicle, wherein the evaluation data (i) indicates a quality level associated with operation of the second vehicle, and (ii) originates from an occupant of the first vehicle; and determine that the second vehicle is associated with a heightened risk of a vehicle accident based upon the evaluation data.
20. The tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, further storing instructions that cause the computer system to transmit a warning message to a third vehicle operating within the vehicle operating environment via a transceiver associated with the first vehicle to alert an operator of the third vehicle to the determined heightened risk associated with the second vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
