<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETAPP
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAITI, SAMYA
MANJAYYA, SHUBHVARDHAN
PASUPATHY, SHANKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280567
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial intelligence and machine learning systems and methods for a storage system
</title>

<abstract>
Computing technology using artificial intelligence/machine learning methods and systems for a storage system is provided. One method includes measuring by a processor, a first metric indicating health of a first storage system in storing and retrieving data; quantifying by the processor, the first metric based on comparison of the first metric with a same metric for a plurality of storage systems; identifying by the processor, a plurality of features potentially impacting the first metric, based on a predictive, machine-learning algorithm built on performance and configuration data for the plurality of storage systems; selecting, a first feature by the processor, based on impact of the first feature on the first metric; and generating a command by the processor for making a change to the first feature.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: quantifying by a processor, a first metric for a first storage system, based on comparison of the first metric with a same metric associated with a plurality of storage systems used by a plurality of users; wherein the first metric indicates overall health of the first storage system for storing and retrieving data; and use of the same metric at the plurality of storage systems is used to quantify the first metric; identifying by the processor, a plurality of features potentially impacting the first metric; executing by the processor, a predictive, machine learning algorithm to generate a model to measure an impact of the plurality of features on the first metric; using the model by the processor, to determine a score for each feature, the score representing the impact of each feature on the first metric; selecting a first feature by the processor, based on a score of the first feature, indicating an impact of the first feature on the first metric; identifying by the processor, a command for the first feature using an index of commands for the first storage system and an electronic document that includes the command to configure the first feature; extracting by the processor, the command from the electronic document; and generating by the processor, an output to make a change to the first feature, the output based on the extracted command and historical use of the extracted command by the plurality of storage systems.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metric is indicative of performance of the first storage system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metric is indicative of utilization of the first storage system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metric is indicative of data loss by the first storage system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metric is indicative of maintainability of the first storage system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first metric is indicative of availability of the first storage system.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracted command is generated using natural language processing.
8. A non-transitory machine readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions for performing a method, comprising machine executable code which when executed by at least one machine, causes the machine to: quantify by a processor, a first metric for a first storage system, based on comparison of the first metric with a same metric associated with a plurality of storage systems used by a plurality of users; wherein the first metric indicates overall health of the first storage system for storing and retrieving data; and use of the same metric at the plurality of storage systems is used to quantify the first metric; identify by the processor, a plurality of features potentially impacting the first metric; execute by the processor, a predictive, machine learning algorithm to generate a model to measure an impact of the plurality of features on the first metric; use the model by the processor, to determine a score for each feature, the score representing the impact of each feature on the first metric; select a first feature by the processor, based on a score of the first feature, indicating an impact of the first feature on the first metric; identify by the processor, a command for the first feature using an index of commands for the first storage system and an electronic document that includes the command to configure the first feature; extract by the processor, the command from the electronic document; and generate by the processor, an output to make a change to the first feature, the output based on the extracted command and historical use of the extracted command by the plurality of storage systems.
9. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first metric is indicative of performance of the first storage system.
10. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first metric is indicative of utilization of the first storage system.
11. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first metric is indicative of data loss by the first storage system.
12. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first metric is indicative of maintainability of the first storage system.
13. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the first metric is indicative of availability of the first storage system.
14. The storage medium of claim 8, wherein the extracted command is generated using natural language processing.
15. A system comprising: a memory containing machine readable medium comprising machine executable code having stored thereon instructions; and a processor module coupled to the memory to execute the machine executable code to: quantify a first metric for a first storage system, based on comparison of the first metric with a same metric associated with a plurality of storage systems used by a plurality of users; wherein the first metric indicates overall health of the first storage system for storing and retrieving data; and use of the same metric at the plurality of storage systems is used to quantify the first metric; identify a plurality of features potentially impacting the first metric; execute a predictive, machine learning algorithm to generate a model to measure an impact of the plurality of features on the first metric; use the model to determine a score for each feature, the score representing the impact of each feature on the first metric; select a first feature, based on a score of the first feature, indicating an impact of the first feature on the first metric; identify a command for the first feature using an index of commands for the first storage system and an electronic document that includes the command to configure the first feature; extract the command from the electronic document; and generate an output to make a change to the first feature, the output based on the extracted command and historical use of the extracted command by the plurality of storage systems.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first metric is indicative of performance of the first storage system.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first metric is indicative of utilization of the first storage system.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the first metric is indicative of data loss by the first storage system.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the first metric is indicative of maintainability of the first storage system.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the first metric is indicative of availability of the first storage system.
</claims>
</document>
