<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60J3/04,G02F1/163,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06K9/66,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHARETTE, FRANCOIS
MYERS, SCOTT VINCENT
SCARIA, LISA
WALSH, ALEXANDRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60419127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle-window-transmittance-control apparatus and method
</title>

<abstract>
A vehicle is disclosed that includes systems for adjusting the transmittance of one or more windows of the vehicle. The vehicle may include a camera outputting images taken of an occupant within the vehicle. The vehicle may also include an artificial neural network running on computer hardware carried on-board the vehicle. The artificial neural network may be trained to classify the occupant of the vehicle using the images captured by the camera as input. The vehicle may further include a controller controlling transmittance of the one or more windows based on classifications made by the artificial neural network. For example, if the artificial neural network classifies the occupant as squinting or shading his or her eyes with a hand, the controller may reduce the transmittance of a windshield, side window, or some combination thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a vehicle having a window with variable transmittance; a camera secured to the vehicle and outputting image data corresponding to one or more images taken of an occupant within the vehicle; an artificial neural network running on hardware carried onboard the vehicle; the artificial neural network classifying, based on the image data, the occupant's perception of radiant flux transmitted through the window, the classifying comprising generating an affinity score for each of a plurality of classes of occupant configuration using the image data as an input, each of the plurality of classes corresponding to a different occupant perception of radiant flux, and selecting, from among the plurality of classes, a class of occupant configuration associated with the occupant based on an affinity score for the class of occupant configuration satisfying at least one threshold; at least one controller carried onboard the vehicle; and the at least one controller changing the transmittance of the window based on the occupant perception of radiant flux corresponding to the selected class of occupant configuration.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the window is a windshield of the vehicle.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant configuration comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant squinting and a second class corresponding to an occupant not squinting.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant configuration comprises a first class corresponding to wearing sun glasses and a second class corresponding to not wearing sun glasses.
5. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant configuration comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant shading his or her eyes with a hand and a second class corresponding to an occupant not shading his or her eyes with a hand.
6. The system of claim 1, further comprising at least one light sensor connected to the vehicle, the at least one light sensor outputting light data characterizing ambient light in an environment surrounding the vehicle.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the generating further comprises generating the affinity score for each of the plurality of classes of occupant configuration using the image data and the light data as inputs.
8. A system comprising: a vehicle having a window with variable transmittance; a camera secured to the vehicle and outputting image data corresponding to one or more images taken of an occupant within the vehicle; an artificial neural network running on hardware carried onboard the vehicle; the artificial neural network classifying, based on the image data, the occupant's response to radiant flux transmitted through the window, the classifying comprising generating an affinity score for each of a plurality of classes of occupant response using the image data as an input, each of the plurality of classes corresponding to a different response to radiant flux, and selecting, from among the plurality of classes, a class of occupant response associated with the occupant based on an affinity score for the class of occupant response satisfying at least one threshold; at least one controller carried onboard the vehicle; and the at least one controller changing the transmittance of the window based on the occupant response to radiant flux corresponding to the selected class of occupant response.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the occupant is the driver of the vehicle.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the window is a windshield of the vehicle.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant squinting and a second class corresponding to an occupant not squinting.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to wearing sun glasses and a second class corresponding to not wearing sun glasses.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant shading his or her eyes with a hand and a second class corresponding to an occupant not shading his or her eyes with a hand.
14. A method comprising: receiving, by a computer system carried on-board a vehicle, image data captured by an in-cabin camera oriented toward an occupant of the vehicle; receiving, by an artificial neural network running on the computer system, the image data as an input; classifying, by the artificial neural network, the occupant's response to radiant flux transmitted through a window of the vehicle, the classifying comprising generating affinity scores for each of a plurality of classes of occupant response based on the input, each of the plurality of classes corresponding to a different occupant response to radiant flux, and selecting, from among the plurality of classes, a class of occupant response associated with the occupant based on an affinity score for the class of occupant response satisfying at least one threshold; and changing, by the computer system, the transmittance of the window based on the occupant response to radiant flux corresponding to the selected class of occupant response.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the window is a windshield of the vehicle.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant squinting and a second class corresponding to an occupant not squinting.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to wearing sun glasses and a second class corresponding to not wearing sun glasses.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the plurality of classes of occupant response comprises a first class corresponding to an occupant shading his or her eyes with a hand and a second class corresponding to an occupant not shading his or her eyes with a hand.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising at least one light sensor connected to the vehicle, the at least one light sensor outputting light data characterizing ambient light in an environment surrounding the vehicle.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the generating further comprises generating the affinity score for each of the plurality of classes of occupant response using the image data and the light data as inputs.
</claims>
</document>
