<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/24,G01V11/00,H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SALE, THOMAS C.
FERRIE, ZACHARY SCOTT
ASKARANI, KAYVAN KARIMI
GALLO, WILLIAM SAMUEL
HAM, JAY M.
SCALIA, IV, JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161835
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Devices and methods for measuring temperature, oxidation reduction potential, and water-level within a subsurface formation
</title>

<abstract>
A subsurface monitoring system and method is provided that includes a sensor array and a monitoring system in communication with the array. The sensor array may include several sensors, such as subsurface temperature sensors, water-level sensors, and oxidation reduction potential sensors may be disposed in a vertical and/or horizontal fence through the subsurface of the monitored site. The sensor array may measure, collect, and analyze the subsurface conditions and provide the measurements to a monitoring system. The monitoring system may provide access the measurements via a user interface for analysis of the measurements. In addition, the monitoring system may process the measurements to generate one or more graphs of information for better understanding of the conditions of the subsurface of the monitored site.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for monitoring subsurface conditions, the device comprising: a data collector comprising at least one hardware processor and at least one memory to store executable instructions; and a plurality of sensors in communication with the data collector deployed in a subsurface of a monitored area, each of the plurality of sensors obtaining an environmental measurement of the subsurface of the monitored area and transmitting, via a communication wire, the environmental measurement to the data collector, a subset of the plurality of sensors grouped together as a group of sensors comprising a temperature sensor, a water-level sensor, and an oxidation reduction potential sensor; wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, are configured to: package a plurality of the environmental measurements received from the plurality of sensors into one or more transmission packets; and wirelessly transmit the one or more transmission packets to a monitoring system, the monitoring system in communication with a user interface for displaying the environmental measurements comprising a time series of contoured natural source zone (NSZD) rates over an overhead map of the monitored area, the time series of contoured natural source zone (NSZD) rates based on a plurality of temperature measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
2. The device of claim 1 further comprising: a conduit connected between the data collector and the plurality of sensors, the conduit housing the communication wire.
3. The device of claim 1 further comprising: a second subset of the plurality of sensors grouped together as a second group of sensors comprising a second temperature sensor, a second water-level sensor, and a second oxidation reduction potential sensor.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the second group of sensors transmits environmental measurements obtained by the second group of sensors on the communication wire, the second group of sensors associating a unique address with the environmental measurements obtained by the second group of sensors, the unique address assigned to the second group of sensors by the data collector.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the second group of sensors transmits environmental measurements obtained by the second group of sensors to the data collector on a second communication wire different than the communication wire.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises a pH sensor and a soil moisture sensor.
7. The device of claim 1 further comprising: a power source comprising a battery in electrical communication with a solar cell, the solar cell recharging the battery.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of sensors further transmit via the communication wire, an operational indicator of an operational status of a corresponding sensor and wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, are further configured to: package a plurality of operational indicators received from the plurality of sensors into one or more operational packets; and wirelessly transmit the one or more operational packets to the monitoring system in communication with the user interface for displaying the plurality of operational indicators.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein displaying of the environmental measurements comprises a simulated groundwater flow direction over an overhead map of the monitored area, the simulated groundwater flow direction based on a plurality of water-level measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
10. A method for monitoring subsurface conditions at a pollution site, the method comprising: receiving, via a plurality of sensors in communication with a data collector of a sensor array deployed in a subsurface of a monitored area, a plurality of environmental measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area, each of the plurality of sensors obtaining a corresponding environmental measurement of the subsurface of the monitored area and transmitting, via a communication wire, the environmental measurement to the data collector, wherein a subset of the plurality of sensors are grouped together as a group of sensors comprising a temperature sensor, a water-level sensor, and an oxidation reduction potential sensor; generating one or more visualizations of the plurality of environmental measurements for display on a display device; and transmitting, to a computing device and via a network connection, the one or more visualizations of the plurality of environmental measurements for display in a user interface executed by the computing device, the plurality of environmental measurements comprising a time series of contoured natural source zone rates over an overhead map of the monitored area, the time series of contoured natural source zone rates based on a plurality of temperature measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising: receiving, via the computing device, one or more configuration requests for configuring an operation of the sensor array; generating one or more configuration instructions for configuring the operation of the data collector; and transmitting, via the network connection, the one or more configuration instructions to the data collector.
12. The method of claim 10 further comprising: receiving, via the data collector of the sensor array deployed in the subsurface of the monitored area, a plurality of operational indicators associated with the operation of the plurality of sensors; generating a dashboard comprising a visualization of the plurality of operational indicators for display on the display device; and transmitting, to the computing device, the dashboard for display in the user interface.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more visualizations of the plurality of environmental measurements comprises a simulated groundwater flow direction over an overhead map of the monitored area, the simulated groundwater flow direction based on a plurality of water-level measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more visualizations of the plurality of environmental measurements comprises a time series of contoured selected oxidation reduction potential values over an overhead map of the monitored area, the time series of contoured selected oxidation reduction potential values based on a plurality of oxidation reduction potential measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the sensor array comprises a plurality of groups of sensors, the plurality of groups of sensors forming a vertical and horizontal fence within the subsurface of the monitored area for obtaining the corresponding environmental measurement of the subsurface of the monitored area.
16. A system for monitoring subsurface conditions, the system comprising: a sensor array deployed at a monitored area comprising: a data collector comprising a wireless communication unit; and a plurality of sensors in communication with the data collector via a communication wire disposed within a conduit, each of the plurality of sensors obtaining an environmental measurement of the subsurface of the monitored area and transmitting the environmental measurement to the data collector, the plurality of sensors comprising a temperature sensor, a water-level sensor, and an oxidation reduction potential sensor; and a monitoring system of a computing network, the monitoring system comprising a processor and at least one memory to store instructions that are configured to, when executed by the processor to: receive, via the wireless communication unit of the data collector, the environmental measurement of the subsurface of the monitored area; generate one or more visualizations of the environmental measurement for display on a display device; and transmit, to a computing device and via a network connection, the one or more visualizations of the environmental measurement for display in a user interface executed by the computing device, the environmental measurement comprising a time series of contoured natural source zone rates over an overhead map of the monitored area, the time series of contoured natural source zone rates based on a plurality of temperature measurements of the subsurface of the monitored area.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of sensors further transmit via the communication wire, an operational indicator of an operational status of a corresponding sensor and the data collector, via the wireless communication unit, transmits a plurality of operational indicators to the monitoring system.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the plurality of sensors further comprises a pH sensor and a soil moisture sensor.
</claims>
</document>
