<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06T15/20,G06T19/00,G06T19/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NVIDIA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUEBKE, DAVID PATRICK
MCGUIRE, MORGAN
LEFOHN, AARON ELIOT
PATNEY, ANJUL
SUN, QI
SHAPIRA, OMER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64666438
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Saccadic redirection for virtual reality locomotion
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer readable medium, and system are disclosed for redirecting a user's movement through a physical space while the user views a virtual environment. A temporary visual suppression event is detected when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a virtual scene displayed on a display device, an orientation of the virtual scene relative to the user is modified to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene, and the virtual scene is displayed on the display device according to the modified orientation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device has not occurred within a time duration; in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, modifying an attribute of an object in the virtual environment to induce the temporary visual suppression event; modifying an orientation of a virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene; and displaying the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the temporary visual suppression event comprises a saccade.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein modification of the orientation is limited according to a redirection rotational value.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the attribute is a texture or material.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising selecting the at least one object based on the user's gaze and a distance from a virtual viewpoint of the user to the at least one object.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the temporary visual suppression event is identified when the user's gaze changes by a saccadic threshold value.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the orientation is modified by a greater amount as a duration of the temporary visual suppression event increases.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the orientation is modified by a greater amount when the user's head rotates during the temporary visual suppression event.
9. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device has not occurred within a time duration; in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, modifying at least one pixel of the display device to induce the temporary visual suppression event; modifying an orientation of a virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene; and displaying the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising, before modifying the at least one pixel, determining the user will collide with an obstacle in a physical environment within which the user is positioned.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the at least one pixel is in a peripheral region of the user's gaze.
12. A system, comprising: a processor configured to: determine a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device has not occurred within a time duration, wherein in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, an attribute of an object in the virtual environment is modified to induce the temporary visual suppression event; modify an orientation of the virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene; and a graphics processing unit coupled to processor and configured to display the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the temporary visual suppression event comprises a saccade.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein modification of the orientation is limited according to a redirection rotational value.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to determine whether the user will collide with an obstacle in a physical environment within which the user is positioned before the attribute is modified.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the attribute is a texture or material.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one object is selected is based on the user's gaze and a distance from a virtual viewpoint of the user to the at least one object.
18. A system comprising: a processor configured to: detect a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eves move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device; determine whether a temporary visual suppression event has occurred within a time duration; in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, modify at least one pixel of the display device to induce the temporary visual suppression event; and modify an orientation of the virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene: and a graphics processing unit coupled to the processor and configured to display the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the at least one pixel is in a peripheral region of the user's gaze.
20. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processing unit, cause the processing unit to: determine a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device has not occurred within a time duration, wherein in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, an attribute of an object in the virtual environment is modified to induce the temporary visual suppression event; modify an orientation of the virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene; and display the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
21. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processing unit, cause the processing unit to: determine a temporary visual suppression event when a user's eyes move relative to the user's head while viewing a display device has not occurred within a time duration; in response to determining that the temporary visual suppression event has not occurred within the time duration, modify at least one pixel of the display device to induce the temporary visual suppression event; modify an orientation of a virtual scene relative to the user to direct the user to physically move along a planned path through a virtual environment corresponding to the virtual scene; and display the virtual scene on the display device according to the modified orientation.
</claims>
</document>
