<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q9/00,B60R11/00,B60R11/04,H03M1/56,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOBAYASHI HIDEO
SAITO KAZUHIRO
ITANO, TETSUYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70770022
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analog-to-digital conversion device, photoelectric conversion device, photoelectric conversion system, and movable object
</title>

<abstract>
An analog-to-digital conversion device of the embodiment includes a comparator and a logic circuit including a switch unit and a logic gate unit that receives a signal output from a comparator. The logic gate unit and the switch unit are connected to each other in series between a power supply node and a ground node.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An analog-to-digital conversion device comprising: a comparator; and a logic circuit including a switch unit and a logic gate unit that receives a signal output from the comparator, wherein the logic gate unit has a first transistor and a second transistor of a first conductivity type, and a third transistor and a fourth transistor of a second conductivity type, wherein a first signal output from the comparator is input to the first transistor and the third transistor, wherein a second signal is input to the second transistor and the fourth transistor, wherein the first transistor, the second transistor and the third transistor are connected to an output node, and wherein the first transistor, the third transistor, the fourth transistor and the switch unit are connected in series, in this order, between a first power supply node and a second power supply node.
2. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the logic gate unit performs a logical operation on at least two signals including the signal output from the comparator, and wherein the switch unit is controlled to be an on-state or an off-state by a control signal separate from the at least two signals.
3. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the logic gate unit receives the signal output from the comparator and a first third signal that controls whether or not to perform analog-to-digital conversion based on the signal output from the comparator.
4. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 2, wherein the logic gate unit receives the signal output from the comparator and a third signal that controls whether or not to perform analog-to-digital conversion based on the signal output from the comparator.
5. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 3, wherein the switch unit is in an off-state in at least a part of a period in which the third signal has a signal value corresponding to a state where analog-to-digital conversion is performed.
6. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 4, wherein the switch unit is in an off-state in at least a part of a period in which the third signal has a signal value corresponding to a state where analog-to-digital conversion is performed.
7. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the logic circuit further includes a second logic gate unit, wherein the logic gate unit performs a logical operation on at least two signals including the signal output from the comparator, wherein the second logic gate unit performs a logical operation on a signal output from the logic gate unit and a control signal separate from the at least two signals, and wherein the switch unit is controlled to an on-state or an off-state by the signal output from the second logic gate unit.
8. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1 further comprising a signal generation circuit that supplies a ramp signal to the comparator, wherein the switch unit is in an off-state in at least a part of a period from start of a change to end of the change in the signal value of the ramp signal.
9. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1 further comprising a clip circuit that limits a range of a signal value of a signal output from the comparator.
10. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1, wherein the logic circuit includes a first logic circuit and a second logic circuit each including the logic gate unit and the switch unit, and wherein, in each of the first logic circuit and the second circuit, the logic gate unit and the switch unit are connected to each other in series between the power supply node and the ground node.
11. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 10 further comprising: an inverter circuit connected to an output terminal of the second logic circuit; and a third logic circuit that receives a signal output from the first logic circuit and a signal output from the inverter circuit.
12. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 10, wherein a threshold voltage of a transistor included in the first logic circuit and a threshold voltage of a transistor included in the second logic circuit are different from each other.
13. The analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 11, wherein a threshold voltage of a transistor included in the first logic circuit and a threshold voltage of a transistor included in the second logic circuit are different from each other.
14. A photoelectric conversion device comprising: a photoelectric conversion unit; and the analog-to-digital conversion device according to claim 1, wherein a signal based on charge generated in the photoelectric conversion unit is input to the comparator.
15. A photoelectric conversion system comprising: the photoelectric conversion device according to claim 14; and a signal processing device that processes a signal from the photoelectric conversion device.
16. A movable object comprising: the photoelectric conversion system according to claim 15; and a control unit that controls the movable object based on pixel signals acquired by the photoelectric conversion system.
17. An analog-to-digital conversion device comprising: a comparator; and a logic circuit including a switch unit and a logic gate unit that receives a signal output from the comparator, wherein the logic gate unit and the switch unit are connected to each other in series between a first power supply node and a second power supply node, wherein the logic circuit further includes a second logic gate unit, wherein the logic gate unit performs a logical operation on at least two signals including the signal output from the comparator, wherein the second logic gate unit performs a logical operation on a signal output from the logic gate unit and a control signal separate from the at least two signals, and wherein the switch unit is controlled to an on-state or an off-state by the signal output from the second logic gate unit.
18. An analog-to-digital conversion device comprising: a comparator; a logic circuit including a switch unit and a logic gate unit that receives a signal output from the comparator; an inverter circuit connected to an output terminal of the second logic circuit; and a third logic circuit that receives a signal output from the first logic circuit and a signal output from the inverter circuit, wherein the logic gate unit and the switch unit are connected to each other in series between a first power supply node and a second power supply node, wherein the logic circuit includes a first logic circuit and a second logic circuit each including the logic gate unit and the switch unit, and wherein, in each of the first logic circuit and the second logic circuit, the logic gate unit and the switch unit are connected to each other in series between the first power supply node and a second power supply node.
</claims>
</document>
