<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06F9/54,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTRADIEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUSBEE, CHRISTOPHER POWELL
MCCONNELL, MATTHEW GRADY
DRUCKER, ERIC VICTOR
EAST, JENNIFER CHRISTINE
JARUS, MICHAEL CARL
WILSON, KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70223572
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Live monitoring to trigger automation
</title>

<abstract>
A system may include one or more processors disposed within a management network. An end-user network may contain agent instances and one or more servers, where the one or more servers are operable to: (i) receive communications to the end-user network, and (ii) assign agent instances to service the communications. The one or more processors may be configured to perform one or more tasks. These tasks may include receiving, from the end-user network, data associated with the processes of the one or more servers; determining, based on a specification, operations to be performed by the one or more servers, wherein the specification is defined by the end-user network and comprises logical directives, each directive containing conditions that, if satisfied by the received data, define the operations; and providing, to the one or more servers, the operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: one or more processors disposed within a management network, wherein the management network has computing resources dedicated to an end-user network, the end-user network containing agent instances and one or more servers, wherein the one or more servers are operable to: (i) receive communications to the end-user network, and (ii) assign one or more of the agent instances to service the communications, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to perform tasks including: receiving, from the end-user network, data associated with processes of the one or more servers, determining, based on a specification, operations to be performed by the one or more servers, wherein the specification is defined by the end-user network and comprises logical directives, each logical directive of the logical directives containing conditions that, if satisfied by the received data, define the operations, and providing, to the one or more servers, the operations.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more servers comprise a workforce management server and a communication distributor server.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein providing the operations comprises the management network making an application programming interface (API) request to the one or more servers by way of a wide-area network.
4. The computing system of claim 3, wherein making the API request to the one or more servers includes making an API request to a proxy server disposed on the end-user network.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein providing the operations comprises the management network logging on to the one or more servers by way of robotic process automation.
6. The computing system of claim 5, wherein the specification includes an authentication mechanism for the one or more servers, and wherein logging on to the one or more servers by way of robotic process automation comprises logging on to the one or more servers in accordance with the authentication mechanism.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the operations include changing a state of a particular agent instance of the agent instances, modifying an assigned schedule for the particular agent instance, or modifying an assigned queue of the particular agent instance.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the conditions include Boolean expressions.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein for each respective logical directive of the logical directives, if a component of the received data will fail to satisfy at least one condition of the conditions associated with the respective logical directive, the management network is configured to prevent the respective logical directive from evaluating the component of the received data.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein receiving data associated with the processes of the one or more servers involves the management network requesting, from a proxy server disposed on the end-user network, data associated with at least one logical directive from the logical directives.
11. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the tasks further comprise providing, to a subset of the agent instances, the operations, wherein a respective agent instance of the agent instances is in the subset if any or all queues to which the respective agent instance is serving are in compliance with the specification.
12. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the tasks further comprise providing, to a subset of the agent instances, the operations, wherein a respective agent instance of the agent instances is in the subset if any or all staffing groups to which the respective agent instance is associated are in compliance with the specification.
13. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more servers are managed by an entity distinctly different than the management network.
14. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors disposed within a management network, data associated with processes of one or more servers contained in an end-user network, wherein the management network has computing resources dedicated to the end-user network, wherein the end-user network contains agent instances, and wherein the one or more servers are operable to: (i) receive incoming communications, and (ii) assign one or more of the agent instances to service the incoming communications; determining, based on a specification, operations to be performed by the one or more servers, wherein the specification is defined by the end-user network and comprises logical directives, each logical directive of the logical directives containing conditions that, if satisfied by the received data, define the operations; and providing, to the one or more servers, the operations.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein providing the operations comprises the management network logging on to the one or more servers by way of robotic process automation.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the specification includes an authentication mechanism for the one or more servers, and wherein logging on to the one or more servers by way of robotic process automation comprises logging on to the one or more servers in accordance with the authentication mechanism.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the operations include changing a state of a particular agent instance of the agent instances, modifying an assigned schedule for the particular agent instance, or modifying an assigned queue of the particular agent instance.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising providing, to a subset of the agent instances, the operations, wherein a respective agent instance of the agent instances is in the subset if any or all queues to which the respective agent instance is serving are in compliance with the specification.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising providing, to a subset of the agent instances, the operations, wherein a respective agent instance of the agent instances is in the subset if any or all staffing groups to which the respective agent instance is associated are in compliance with the specification.
20. An article of manufacture including a non-transitory computer-readable medium, having stored thereon program instructions that, upon execution by one or more processors disposed within a management network, cause the one or more processors to perform tasks comprising: receiving data associated with processes of one or more servers contained in an end-user network, wherein the management network has computing resources dedicated to the end-user network, wherein the end-user network contains agent instances, and wherein the one or more servers are operable to: (i) receive incoming communications, and (ii) assign one or more of the agent instances to service the incoming communications; determining, based on a specification, operations to be performed by the one or more servers, wherein the specification is defined by the end-user network and comprises logical directives, each logical directive of the logical directives containing conditions that, if satisfied by the received data, define the operations; and providing, to the one or more servers, the operations.
</claims>
</document>
