<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU, XIAOYUN MAY
ZAMORA ESQUIVEL, JULIO C.
FLORES FAJARDO, CARLOS A.
IBARRA VON BORSTEL, ALEJANDRO
LOPEZ MEYER, PAULO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59626240
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technologies for shifted neural networks
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for using a shifted neural network include a compute device to determine a shift-based activation function of the shifted neural network. The shift-based activation function is a piecewise linear approximation of a transcendental activation function and is defined by a plurality of line segments such that a corresponding slope of each line segment is a power of two. The compute device further trains the shifted neural network based on shift-based input weights and the determined shift-based activation function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A compute device for use of a shifted neural network, the compute device comprising: a linear approximation module to determine a shift-based activation function of the shifted neural network, wherein the shift-based activation function is a piecewise linear approximation of a transcendental activation function and is defined by a plurality of line segments, and wherein a corresponding slope of each line segment is a power of two; and a training module to train the shifted neural network based on shift-based input weights and the determined shift-based activation function, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function comprises to: (i) compute a slope value as a base-two logarithm of a tangent line of the transcendental activation function for each function value of a plurality of function values in the range of the transcendental activation function, (ii) associate each slope value with a corresponding nearest cluster, and (iii) update a centroid associated with each cluster.
2. The compute device of claim 1, further comprising a data handling module to identify a set of input values and a set of shift-based input weights for each neuron of the shifted neural network.
3. The compute device of claim 2, wherein the set of input values comprises a set of predefined image patterns for recognition.
4. The compute device of claim 1, wherein the transcendental activation function comprises a sigmoid function.
5. The compute device of claim 1, wherein the transcendental activation function comprises a hyperbolic tangent function.
6. The compute device of claim 1, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function based on k-means clustering further comprises to compute an offset of the tangent line relative to an origin.
7. The compute device of claim 1, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function based on k-means clustering further comprises to compute intersections of the tangent lines in response to a determination that each centroid value is stable.
8. The compute device of claim 7, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function comprises to generate the piecewise linear approximation according to wherein x is an input value, σi is the slope value of the ith tangent line, bi is an offset of the ith tangent line relative to the transcendental activation function, ri is an intersection of two tangent lines, and >> is a bitwise shift operator.
9. The compute device of claim 1, further comprising a pattern recognition module to apply the shifted neural network to an input for pattern recognition.
10. The compute device of claim 1, wherein each corresponding slope is computed by a bitwise shift operation.
11. The compute device of claim 1, wherein each of the input weights is stored in a four-bit memory region; and wherein three bits of the four-bit memory region store a value associated with an amount of bitwise shift of the corresponding input weight and one bit is indicative of a sign of the weight.
12. One or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that, in response execution by a compute device, causes the compute device to: determine a shift-based activation function of the shifted neural network, wherein the shift-based activation function is a piecewise linear approximation of a transcendental activation function and is defined by a plurality of line segments, and wherein a corresponding slope of each line segment is a power of two; and train the shifted neural network based on shift-based input weights and the determined shift-based activation function, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function comprises to (i) compute a slope value as a base-two logarithm of a tangent line of the transcendental activation function for each function value of a plurality of function values in the range of the transcendental activation function, (ii) associate each slope value with a corresponding nearest cluster, and (iii) update a centroid associated with each cluster, to determine the shift-based activation function based on k-means clustering.
13. The one or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein the plurality of instructions further causes the compute device to identify a set of input values and a set of shift-based input weights for each neuron of the shifted neural network, wherein the set of input values comprises a set of predefined image patterns for recognition.
14. The one or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein the transcendental activation function comprises one of a sigmoid function or a hyperbolic tangent function.
15. The one or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function based on k-means clustering further comprises to: compute an offset of the tangent line relative to an origin; and compute intersections of the tangent lines in response to a determination that each centroid value is stable.
16. The one or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein to determine the shift-based activation function comprises to generate the piecewise linear approximation according to wherein x is an input value, σi is the slope value of the ith tangent line, bi is an offset of the ith tangent line relative to the transcendental activation function, ri is an intersection of two tangent lines, and >> is a bitwise shift operator.
17. The one or more non-transitory, machine-readable storage media of claim 12, wherein each corresponding slope is computed by a bitwise shift operation.
18. A method for use of a shifted neural network, the method comprising: determining, by a compute device, a shift-based activation function of the shifted neural network, wherein the shift-based activation function is a piecewise linear approximation of a transcendental activation function and is defined by a plurality of line segments, and wherein a corresponding slope of each line segment is a power of two; and training, by the compute device, the shifted neural network based on shift-based input weights and the determined shift-based activation function, wherein determining the shift-based activation function comprises (i) computing a slope value as a base-two logarithm of a tangent line of the transcendental activation function for each function value of a plurality of function values in the range of the transcendental activation function, (ii) associating each slope value with a corresponding nearest cluster, and (iii) updating a centroid associated with each cluster.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising identifying, by the compute device, a set of input values and a set of shift-based input weights for each neuron of the shifted neural network.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein determining the shift-based activation function based on k-means clustering further comprises: computing an offset of the tangent line relative to an origin; and computing intersections of the tangent lines in response to a determination that each centroid value is stable.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein determining the shift-based activation function comprises generating the piecewise linear approximation according to wherein x is an input value, σi is the slope value of the ith tangent line, bi is an offset of the ith tangent line relative to the transcendental activation function, ri is an intersection of two tangent lines, and >> is a bitwise shift operator.
</claims>
</document>
