<document>

<filing_date>
2020-04-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kim, Je
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664002
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for automated outbound profile generation
</title>

<abstract>
One aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a computer-implemented system for generating an automated outbound profile. The system may include may perform steps including: receiving data comprising a capacity of a fulfillment center (FC); receiving, a plurality of product identifiers associated with incoming products to the FC; periodically collecting and storing transactional logs for the products at the FC using the product identifier; determining a current inventory for the products stored at the FC using the product identifier; generating an outbound profile for the FC using at least one of the transactional logs and the current inventory using a machine learning algorithm; wherein the outbound profile comprises an expected percentage of outgoing products for a plurality of categories of products; and managing network outbound using the generated outbound profile of the FC by comparing the outbound profile to actual outbound capacity of the FC.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for generating an automated outbound profile, comprising: at least one processor; at least one database; and a memory comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, performs steps comprising: receiving data comprising a capacity of a fulfillment center (FC); receiving, a plurality of product identifiers associated with a plurality of incoming products to the FC; periodically collecting and storing transactional logs for the plurality of products at the FC using the product identifier; determining a current inventory for the plurality of products stored at the FC using the product identifier; storing in a database a plurality of transactional logs and current inventories from a plurality of FCs, the plurality transactional logs and current inventories containing transactional data; dividing transactional data into a training dataset and a validation dataset, the training dataset having more data than the validation dataset; generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a predictive model based on the training data set; validating the predictive model using the validation dataset; generating an outbound profile for the FC by applying the predictive model to the associated transactional logs and current inventory, wherein the outbound profile comprises an expected percentage of outgoing products for a plurality of categories of products; and managing network outbound using the generated outbound profile of the FC by comparing the outbound profile to actual outbound capacity of the FC, wherein managing network outbound comprises assigning orders to different FCs in order to prevent one or more FCs from being assigned to fulfill orders outside of their capacity.
2. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein transactional logs comprise at least one of customer orders assigned to the FC, incoming products assigned to the FC, times at which the products were received at the FC, amount of time the products were stored, times at which the products were shipped from the FC, number of brands coming into the FC, top brands shipping out of the FC, availability of products at the FC, or number of products for different brands shipping out of the FC.
3. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the outbound profile for the FC further comprises of number of expected outgoing products during a specific period from the FC.
4. The computer-implemented system of claim 3, wherein the specific period may be measured in at least one of days, months, or years.
5. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein categories of products comprise at least one of total inventory at the FC, brands, top sellers, price ranges, or shipping locations.
6. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further comprise generating outbound profiles at an FC level, regional level and national level.
7. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further comprise training the machine learning algorithm to periodically update the outbound profile based on the information stored in the transactional logs.
8. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the database includes a historical inventory database to store historical inventory data for the FC, the historical inventory data identifying, at least, products stored in the FC, times at which the products were stored and shipped from the FC, time periods for which the products were stored in the FC, prices of the products, and brands of the products.
9. The computer-implemented system of claim 8, wherein the outbound profile is generated for an upcoming event using the historical inventory data.
10. A computer-implemented method for generating an automated outbound profile, the method comprising: receiving data comprising a capacity of a fulfilment center (FC); receiving, a product identifier associated with every incoming product to the FC; periodically collecting and storing transactional logs for every product at the FC using the product identifier; determining a current inventory for every product at the FC using the product identifier; storing in a database a plurality of transactional logs and current inventories from a plurality of FCs, the plurality transactional logs and current inventories containing transactional data; dividing transactional data into a training dataset and a validation dataset, the training dataset having more data than the validation dataset; generating, using a machine learning algorithm, a predictive model based on the training data set; validating the predictive model using the validation dataset; generating an outbound profile for the FC by applying the predictive model to the associated transactional logs and current inventory, wherein the outbound profile comprises an expected percentage of outgoing products for a plurality of categories of products; and managing network outbound using the generated outbound profile of the FC by comparing the outbound profile to actual outbound capacity of the FC, wherein managing network outbound comprises assigning orders to different FCs in order to prevent one or more FCs from being assigned to fulfill orders outside of their capacity.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein transactional logs comprise at least one of customer orders assigned to the FC, incoming products assigned to the FC, times at which every product was received at the FC, amount of time every product was stored, times at which every product was shipped from the FC, number of brands coming into the FC, top brands shipping out of the FC, availability of products at the FC, and number of products for different brands shipping out of the FC.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the outbound profile for the FC comprises of number of expected outgoing products during a specific period from the FC.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the specific period may be measured in at least one of days, months or years.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein number of expected outgoing products is based on at least one of total inventory at the FC, brands, top sellers, price ranges, and shipping locations.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising generating outbound profiles at an FC level, regional level and national level.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising training the machine learning algorithm to periodically update the outbound profile based on the information stored in the transactional logs.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising storing historical inventory data for the FC, the historical inventory data identifying, at least, products stored in the FC, times at which the products were stored and shipped from the FC, time periods for which the products were stored in the FC, prices of the products, and brands of the products.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the outbound profile is generated for an upcoming event using the historical inventory data.
</claims>
</document>
