<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/00,G10L15/16,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
METALLINOU, ANGELIKI
Goel, Rahul
Dhillon, Inderjit
Acharya, Anish
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73823402
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Natural language processing
</title>

<abstract>
A natural language understanding (NLU) system that uses a reduced dimensionality of word embedding features to configure compressed NLU models that use reduced computing resources for NLU tasks. A modified NLU model may include a compressed vocabulary data structure of word embedding data vectors that include a set of values corresponding to a reduced dimensionality of the original word embedding features, resulting in a smaller sized vocabulary data structure and reduced size of the vocabulary data structure. Further components of the modified NLU model perform matrix operations to expand the dimensionality of the reduced word embedding data vectors up to the expected dimensionality of later layers of the NLU model. Additional training and reweighting can adjust for potential loses in performance resulting from reductions in the word embedding features. Thus the modified NLU model can achieve similar performance to an original NLU model with reductions in use of computing resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a word string including at least a first word; selecting a first model to perform a natural language understanding (NLU) operation, the first model including: a first layer including a data structure corresponding to a plurality of words potentially used with the NLU operation, the data structure including a plurality of data vectors, each data vector corresponding to a respective word and to a first dimensionality of word embedding data, a second layer including a first matrix configured to be used to transform data having the first dimensionality to data having a second dimensionality, the second dimensionality corresponding to a pre-configured word embedding format, and a plurality of additional layers including at least: an initial layer configured to be used to operate on input word embedding data having the second dimensionality, and a final layer configured to be used to output NLU data; processing the word string to determine a second matrix; multiplying the data structure by the second matrix to determine at least a third matrix including first word embedding data corresponding to the first word, the first word embedding data having the first dimensionality; multiplying the third matrix by the first matrix to determine a fourth matrix, the fourth matrix including second word embedding data corresponding to the first word, the second word embedding data having the second dimensionality; processing the fourth matrix using the plurality of additional layers to determine first NLU output data; and causing an action to be performed using the first NLU output data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to receiving the word string: determining, using the NLU operation, a reduced number of word embedding features corresponding to the NLU operation; identifying an existing model configured to perform the NLU operation, the existing model comprising: a layer including a second data structure corresponding to the plurality of words potentially used with the NLU operation, the second data structure including a second plurality of data vectors, each data vector of the second plurality corresponding to a respective word and to the second dimensionality, and the plurality of additional layers; using the second data structure and the reduced number of word embedding features, configuring the data structure to include the plurality of data vectors; configuring the second layer; and storing data corresponding to the first model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein determining the reduced number of word embedding features comprises: using data corresponding to the NLU operation, performing a singular value decomposition (SVD) operation using data corresponding to the reduced number of word embedding features; selecting, using output from the SVD operation and data corresponding to desired performance of the first model, the reduced number of word embedding features; and after the selecting, configuring a plurality of weights of the first matrix.
4. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving text data corresponding to at least a first word; selecting a model for performing natural language understanding (NLU) processing, the model including a first portion and a second portion, the second portion including a plurality of layers wherein: an initial layer of the plurality of layers is configured to be used to operate on input word embedding data having a first dimensionality, and a final layer of the plurality of layers is configured to be used to output NLU data; processing the text data using the first portion to obtain a first data vector corresponding to the first word, the first data vector including word embedding data having a second dimensionality, the second dimensionality being smaller than the first dimensionality; processing the first data vector to obtain a second data vector corresponding to the first word, the second data vector having the first dimensionality; processing the second data vector using the initial layer of the plurality of layers; and determining, as a result of an operation using the final layer of the plurality of layers, first output NLU data corresponding to at least the first word.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the first portion comprises a data structure representing a vocabulary of words corresponding to an NLU operation corresponding to the model, the data structure corresponding to the second dimensionality.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein processing the text data using the first portion comprises: multiplying a matrix representing words of the text data by the data structure to obtain at least the first data vector.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the first portion further comprises a matrix configured to be used to transform data having the second dimensionality to data having the first dimensionality.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein processing the first data vector to obtain the second data vector comprises: multiplying the matrix by the first data vector to obtain the second data vector.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein processing the first data vector to obtain the second data vector comprises: configuring the second data vector to include a portion of data from the first data vector and a plurality of zero values.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein: the first portion includes a first layer and a second layer; the processing of the text data to obtain the first data vector is performed by processing a first matrix representing the text data using a data structure included in the first layer; and the processing of the first data vector to obtain the second data vector is performed by processing the first data vector using a second matrix included in the second layer.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the text data corresponds to a word string of an utterance, the word string including the first word, and the method further comprises: processing the word string to obtain a plurality of data vectors having the second dimensionality, the plurality of data vectors including the first data vector; determining a first matrix including the plurality of data vectors; processing the first matrix to obtain a second matrix, the second matrix including the second data vector; and using the second matrix as input to the plurality of layers.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising, prior to receiving the text data: identifying a plurality of word embedding features corresponding to a word embedding format; determining a reduced number of features corresponding to a desired NLU function; identifying a first vocabulary data structure corresponding to the word embedding data format and corresponding to the first dimensionality; determining a transformation matrix to transfer data having the first dimensionality to data having the second dimensionality; and processing the first vocabulary data structure using the transformation matrix to determine a second vocabulary data structure for inclusion in the first portion, the second vocabulary data structure comprising at least the first data vector.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein determining the reduced number comprises performing a singular value decomposition operation using data corresponding to the desired NLU function and data corresponding to the plurality of word embedding features.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising selecting, from a plurality of models corresponding to an NLU function, the model, wherein the plurality includes a second model including a different first portion and the second portion, the different first portion including a third data vector corresponding to the first word, the third data vector including word embedding data having a third dimensionality, the third dimensionality being smaller than the second dimensionality.
15. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive text data corresponding to at least a first word; select a model for performing natural language understanding (NLU) processing, the model including a first portion and a second portion, the second portion including a plurality of layers wherein: an initial layer of the plurality of layers is configured to be used to operate on input word embedding data having a first dimensionality, and a final layer of the plurality of layers is configured to be used to output NLU data; process the text data using the first portion to obtain a first data vector corresponding to the first word, the first data vector including word embedding data having a second dimensionality, the second dimensionality being smaller than the first dimensionality; process the first data vector to obtain a second data vector corresponding to the first word, the second data vector having the first dimensionality; process the second data vector using the initial layer of the plurality of layers; and determine, as a result of an operation using the final layer of the plurality of layers, first output NLU data corresponding to at least the first word.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the first portion comprises a vocabulary data structure representing a vocabulary of words corresponding to an NLU operation corresponding to the model, the data structure corresponding to the second dimensionality.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions that configure the system to process the text data using the first portion comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: multiply a matrix representing words of the text data by the data structure to obtain at least the first data vector.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the text data corresponds to a word string of an utterance, the word string including the first word, and the system further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: process the word string to obtain a plurality of data vectors having the second dimensionality, the plurality of data vectors including the first data vector; determine a first matrix including the plurality of data vectors; process the first matrix to obtain a second matrix, the second matrix including the second data vector; and use the second matrix as input to the plurality of layers.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein: the first portion includes a first layer and a second layer; processing of the text data to obtain the first data vector is performed by processing a first matrix representing the text data using a data structure included in the first layer; and processing of the first data vector to obtain the second data vector is performed by processing the first data vector using a second matrix included in the second layer.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the system further comprises instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to, prior to receiving the text data: identify a plurality of word embedding features corresponding to a word embedding format; determine a reduced number of features corresponding to a desired NLU function; identify a first vocabulary data structure corresponding to the word embedding data format and corresponding to the first dimensionality; determine a transformation matrix to transfer data having the first dimensionality to data having the second dimensionality; and process the first vocabulary data structure using the transformation matrix to determine a second vocabulary data structure for inclusion in the first portion, the second vocabulary data structure comprising at least the first data vector.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the instructions to determine the reduced number comprise instructions to perform a singular value decomposition operation using data corresponding to the desired NLU function and data corresponding to the plurality of word embedding features.
</claims>
</document>
