<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61F2/04,A61F2/08,A61F2/30,B29C64/118,B29C64/209,B29L31/00,B33Y10/00,B33Y30/00,B33Y80/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOELZLE, DAVID J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60297579
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Additive manufacturing device for biomaterials
</title>

<abstract>
An additive manufacturing (AM) device for biomaterials comprises a reservoir, a shaft, and a material delivery head. The device can be used for intracorporeal additive manufacturing. Material within the reservoir can be expelled by a mechanical transmission element, for example a syringe pump, a peristaltic pump, an air pressure pump, or a hydraulic pressure pump. The reservoir can be a barrel, a cartridge, or a cassette. The reservoir can narrow into the shaft, and the shaft can terminate into the nozzle. The shaft can house an inner tube. The device can have an actuator joint capable of being mechanically linked to a robotic surgical system. The actuator joint can have a motor that drives the mechanical transmission element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A biomaterial delivery system for printing a tissue engineering construct inside a patient's body, the biomaterial delivery system comprising: a robotic surgical system having an articulating arm and an end effector coupled to a distal end of the articulating arm, the end effector configured to have at least three degrees of movement being controlled by the robotic surgical system; and an additive manufacturing device comprising: a frame releasably mounted to the end effector; a first mechanical transmission element operatively connected to the frame and engaged with the end effector so that the end effector may control the operation of the first mechanical transmission element; a biomaterial reservoir selectively removably connected to the frame, the biomaterial reservoir adapted to hold biomaterial; a syringe pump capable of generating pressure in the reservoir, the syringe pump operatively coupled to the first mechanical transmission element so that biomaterial may be expelled from the biomaterial reservoir when the first mechanical transmission element is operated by the end effector; a shaft operatively connected to a discharge end of the biomaterial reservoir, the shaft adapted to transport biomaterial therethrough, the shaft configured to be at least partially inserted into a patient's body; and a nozzle operatively connected to a discharge end of the shaft, the nozzle configured to be inserted into the patient's body and discharge biomaterial therein; wherein the nozzle is operatively coupled to the end effector such that, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle while depositing biomaterial to print a tissue engineering construct inside the patient's body.
2. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 1, wherein the additive manufacturing device further comprising: an articulating joint having at least one degree of freedom of movement, the articulating joint being operatively connected to a distal end of the shaft and configured to move the nozzle along the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; a second mechanical transmission element operatively coupled to the articulating joint and engaged with the end effector so as to move the nozzle corresponding to the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; and wherein, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle corresponding to the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint.
3. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 2, wherein a discharge end of the nozzle being sharpened to pierce tissue and deliver biomaterial inside the tissue.
4. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 1, wherein a discharge end of the nozzle being sharpened to pierce tissue and deliver biomaterial inside the tissue.
5. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 1, the additive manufacturing device further comprising a tube disposed next to the shaft and the shaft can be either hollow or not hollow.
6. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 5, wherein the tube is disposed inside the shaft.
7. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 1, wherein the frame further includes a slidable rack operatively coupled to the syringe pump and the first mechanical transmission element includes a pinion configured to engage the rack and thereby move the rack when the pinion rotates.
8. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 1, wherein the frame further includes a cable operatively coupled to the syringe pump and the first mechanical transmission element includes a pulley configured to engage the cable and thereby move the cable when the pulley rotates.
9. A biomaterial delivery system for printing a tissue engineering construct inside a patient's body, the biomaterial delivery system comprising: a robotic surgical system having an articulating arm and an end effector coupled to a distal end of the articulating arm, the end effector configured to have at least three degrees of movement being controlled by the robotic surgical system; and an additive manufacturing device comprising: a frame releasably mounted to the end effector; first mechanical transmission element operatively connected to the frame and engaged with the end effector so that the end effector may control the operation of the first mechanical transmission element; a biomaterial reservoir selectively removably connected to the frame, the biomaterial reservoir adapted to hold biomaterial; a syringe pump capable of generating pressure in the reservoir, the syringe pump operatively coupled to the first mechanical transmission element so that biomaterial may be expelled from the biomaterial reservoir when the first mechanical transmission element is operated by the end effector; a shaft operatively connected to a discharge end of the reservoir; a nozzle operatively connected to a discharge end of the shaft, the nozzle adapted to direct a flow of biomaterial being discharged from the nozzle; and a tube disposed within the shaft, the tube configured to transport biomaterial between the biomaterial reservoir and the nozzle; wherein the nozzle is operatively coupled to the end effector such that, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle while depositing biomaterial to print a tissue engineering construct inside the patient's body.
10. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 9, wherein the additive manufacturing device further comprising: an articulating joint having at least one degree of freedom of movement, the joint being operatively connected to a distal end of the shaft and configured to move the nozzle along the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; a second mechanical transmission element operatively coupled to the articulating joint and engaged with the end effector so as to move the nozzle corresponding to at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; and wherein, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle corresponding to the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint.
11. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 9, wherein a discharge end of the nozzle being sharpened to pierce tissue and deliver biomaterial inside the tissue.
12. A biomaterial delivery system for printing a tissue engineering construct inside a patient's body, the biomaterial delivery system comprising: a robotic surgical system having an articulating arm and an end effector coupled to a distal end of the articulating arm, the end effector configured to have at least three degrees of movement being controlled by the robotic surgical system; and an additive manufacturing device comprising: a frame releasably mounted to the end effector; a first mechanical transmission element operatively connected to the frame and engaged with the end effector so that the end effector may control the operation of the first mechanical transmission element; a biomaterial reservoir selectively removably connected to the frame, the biomaterial reservoir adapted to hold biomaterial; a syringe pump capable of generating pressure in the reservoir, the syringe pump operatively coupled to the first mechanical transmission element so that biomaterial may be expelled from the biomaterial reservoir when the first mechanical transmission element is operated by the end effector; a shaft operatively connected to a discharge end of the biomaterial reservoir, the shaft configured to be at least partially inserted into a patient's body; a nozzle operatively connected to a discharge end of the shaft, the nozzle configured to be inserted into the patient's body and discharge biomaterial therein; an articulating joint having at least one degree of freedom of movement, the articulating joint being operatively connected to a distal end of the shaft and configured to move the nozzle along the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; and a second mechanical transmission element operatively coupled to the articulating joint and engaged with the end effector so as to move the nozzle corresponding to the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint; wherein the nozzle is operatively coupled to the first end effector such that, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle while depositing biomaterial to print a tissue engineering construct inside the patient's body, and wherein, on command of the robotic surgery system, the end effector moves the nozzle corresponding to the at least one degree of freedom of movement of the articulating joint.
13. The biomaterial delivery system of claim 12, the additive manufacturing device further comprising a tube disposed inside the shaft, the tube configured to transport biomaterial between the reservoir and the nozzle.
</claims>
</document>
