<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FARRELL, ROBERT G.
HASSANZADEH, OKTIE
SELLMANN, MEINOLF
HAMEDANI, MOHAMMAD SADOGHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61069433
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Expressive temporal predictions over semantically driven time windows
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer program products for expressive temporal predictions over semantically-driven time windows are provided herein. A computer-implemented method includes identifying, within a knowledge graph pertaining to a given prediction, a subset of the knowledge graph related to one or more predicted training examples, wherein the subset comprises (i) a set of nodes and (ii) one or more relationships among the set of nodes; determining, for the identified subset, one or more snapshots of the knowledge graph relevant to the given prediction; quantifying a validity window for the one or more predicted training examples, wherein the validity window comprises a temporal bound for prediction validity; and computing a validity window for the given prediction based on the quantified validity window for the one or more predicted training examples.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: identifying, within a knowledge graph pertaining to a given prediction of a value of a variable, a subset of the knowledge graph related to one or more predicted training examples, wherein the subset comprises (i) a set of nodes and (ii) one or more relationships among the set of nodes; determining, for the identified subset, a plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph relevant to the given prediction, wherein each of the plurality of snapshots comprises a static copy of the knowledge graph at a given point in time, wherein the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph comprise (i) one or more historical snapshots corresponding to historical data and (ii) one or more predicted future snapshots, and wherein said determining comprises: (i) employing a version of the knowledge graph that is enhanced with historic information for each entity in the knowledge graph and each relation among the entities in the knowledge graph and (ii) predicting the one or more future snapshots using at least one link discovery technique given the current state of the knowledge graph, wherein the at least one link discovery technique comprises matrix completion; quantifying a validity window for the one or more predicted training examples, wherein the validity window comprises a temporal bound for prediction validity, wherein said quantifying the validity window for the one or more predicted training examples comprises employing a time series analysis to the determined plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; computing a validity window for the given prediction based on the quantified validity window for the one or more predicted training examples; extracting one or more features from the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; training a prediction model based on the one or more extracted features; and updating the given prediction based on utilization of the prediction model.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more historic snapshots comprise multiple historic snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predicted future snapshots comprise multiple predicted future snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the given prediction comprises a predicted value of a particular asset embodied within the knowledge graph.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising: generating a prediction for each of the identified plurality of snapshots.
6. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: identify, within a knowledge graph pertaining to a given prediction of a value of a variable, a subset of the knowledge graph related to one or more predicted training examples, wherein the subset comprises (i) a set of nodes and (ii) one or more relationships among the set of nodes; determine, for the identified subset, a plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph relevant to the given prediction, wherein each of the plurality of snapshots comprises a static copy of the knowledge graph at a given point in time, wherein the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph comprise (i) one or more historical snapshots corresponding to historical data and (ii) one or more predicted future snapshots, and wherein said determining comprises: (i) employing a version of the knowledge graph that is enhanced with historic information for each entity in the knowledge graph and each relation among the entities in the knowledge graph and (ii) predicting the one or more future snapshots using at least one link discovery technique given the current state of the knowledge graph, wherein the at least one link discovery technique comprises matrix completion; quantify a validity window for the one or more predicted training examples, wherein the validity window comprises a temporal bound for prediction validity, wherein said quantifying the validity window for the one or more predicted training examples comprises employing a time series analysis to the determined plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; compute a validity window for the given prediction based on the quantified validity window for the one or more predicted training examples; extract one or more features from the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; train a prediction model based on the one or more extracted features; and update the given prediction based on utilization of the prediction model.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the given prediction comprises a predicted value of a particular asset embodied within the knowledge graph.
8. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the one or more historic snapshots comprise multiple historic snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
9. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the one or more predicted future snapshots comprise multiple predicted future snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program instructions executable by the computing device further cause the computing device to: generating a prediction for each of the identified plurality of snapshots.
11. A system comprising: at least one processors; and at least one non-transitory memory including computer program instructions, the at least one memory and the computer program instructions configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the system at least to perform: identifying, within a knowledge graph pertaining to a given prediction of a value of a variable, a subset of the knowledge graph related to one or more predicted training examples, wherein the subset comprises (i) a set of nodes and (ii) one or more relationships among the set of nodes; determining, for the identified subset, a plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph relevant to the given prediction, wherein each of the plurality of snapshots comprises a static copy of the knowledge graph at a given point in time, wherein the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph comprise (i) one or more historical snapshots corresponding to historical data and (ii) one or more predicted future snapshots, and wherein said determining comprises: (i) employing a version of the knowledge graph that is enhanced with historic information for each entity in the knowledge graph and each relation among the entities in the knowledge graph and (ii) predicting the one or more future snapshots using at least one link discovery technique given the current state of the knowledge graph, wherein the at least one link discovery technique comprises matrix completion; quantifying a validity window for the one or more predicted training examples, wherein the validity window comprises a temporal bound for prediction validity, wherein said quantifying the validity window for the one or more predicted training examples comprises employing a time series analysis to the determined plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; computing a validity window for the given prediction based on the quantified validity window for the one or more predicted training examples; extracting one or more features from the plurality of snapshots of the knowledge graph; training a prediction model based on the one or more extracted features; and updating the given prediction based on utilization of the prediction model.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more historic snapshots comprise multiple historic snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more predicted future snapshots comprise multiple predicted future snapshots differentiated based on a learned threshold.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the given prediction comprises a predicted value of a particular asset embodied within the knowledge graph.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program instructions are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: generating a prediction for each of the identified plurality of snapshots.
</claims>
</document>
