<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0452,A61N1/365,A61N1/368,A61N1/37
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARDIAC PACEMAKERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YU, YINGHONG
AN QI
THAKUR, PRAMODSINGH HIRASINGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54364746
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-site pacing capture verification
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for evaluating electrostimulation of a heart are disclosed. A system can comprise an electrostimulation circuit that can deliver multi-site electrostimulation, including pacing at two or more sites of the heart during the same cardiac cycle. The system can comprise a heart sound sensor circuit configured to sense a heart sound (HS) signal during multi-site stimulation. The heart sound sensor circuit can also sense HS signals in response to uni-site stimulation at a specified site capturing at least a portion of the heart. The system can comprise a pacing analyzer circuit that uses the HS signals during the multi-site stimulation and during the uni-site stimulation to determine a capture status indication that indicates whether the multi-site stimulation captures the two or more sites of the heart, and can be one of a full capture indication, a partial capture indication, or a loss of capture indication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for evaluating electrostimulation of a heart, comprising: an electrostimulation circuit, configured to deliver multi-site electrostimulation to two or more sites of a chamber of the heart; a heart sound (HS) sensor circuit, configured to sense a HS signal during the multi-site electrostimulation delivered to the two or more sites; and a pacing analyzer circuit, in communication with the HS sensor circuit, configured to determine a capture status indication associated with the multi-site electrostimulation using a comparison of a morphology of the HS signal sensed during the multi-site electrostimulation to HS morphologies corresponding to electrostimulation at each of the two or more sites of the heart, wherein the capture status indication includes one or more of a full capture indication indicating the multi-site electrostimulation captures each of the two or more sites, or a partial capture indication indicating the multi-site electrostimulation captures at least one of the two or more sites and fails to capture at least another one of the two or more sites.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the HS sensor circuit is configured to sense a first HS signal corresponding to electrostimulation at a first site of the chamber of the heart, to sense a second HS signal corresponding to electrostimulation at a second site of the chamber of the heart, and to sense a third HS signal corresponding to the multi-site electrostimulation at both the first and second sites; and the pacing analyzer circuit is configured to determine the capture status indication using a comparison between the morphology of the third HS signal and each of the morphologies of the first and second HS signals, the capture status indication indicative of whether the multi-site electrostimulation captures both the first and second sites; wherein the capture status indication indicates a full capture when the multi-site electrostimulation captures both the first and the second sites, or a partial capture when the multi-site electrostimulation captures only one of the first or the second site.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the pacing analyzer circuit is configured to: generate a third HS feature vector using the third HS signal, and first and second HS feature vectors using respectively the first or second HS signal, the first, second, or third feature vector each including a respective morphological feature; compute a first dissimilarity metric between the third HS feature vector and the first feature vector, and a second dissimilarity metric between the third HS feature vector and the second HS feature vector; and determine the capture status indication in response to the first and second dissimilarity metrics satisfying respective conditions.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the pacing analyzer circuit is configured to: receive a first threshold value and a second threshold value; and determine a full capture indication in response to the first dissimilarity metric falling below the first threshold value and the second dissimilarity metric falling below the second threshold value, or a partial capture indication in response to only one of the first or second dissimilarity metric falling below the respective first or second threshold value.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the third HS feature vector includes a portion of the third HS signal including a specified HS component, and the first or second HS feature vector includes respectively a portion of the first or second HS signal including the specified HS component, wherein the specified HS component includes one of S1, S2, S3 or S4 heart sound components.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the third HS feature vector further includes an intensity parameter of the third HS signal, and the first or second HS feature vector further includes respectively an intensity parameter of the first or second HS signal, wherein the intensity parameter includes amplitude of one of S1, S2, S3 or S4 heart sound components.
7. The system of claim 3, wherein the third HS feature vector further includes a cardiac timing interval (CTI) parameter computed using the third HS signal, and the first or second HS feature vector further includes respectively the CTI parameter computed using the first or second HS signal, wherein the CTI parameter includes one or more of a systolic time interval, a pre-ejection interval, a diastolic interval, or a left ventricle ejection time.
8. The system of claim 3, wherein the first dissimilarity metric includes a distance between the third HS feature vector and the first HS feature vector in a vector space, and the second dissimilarity metric includes a distance between the third HS feature vector and the second HS feature vector in the vector space.
9. The system of claim 3, wherein the pacing analyzer circuit is configured to: compute an ensemble average of a portion of the third HS signal over multiple physiological cycles, an ensemble average of a portion of the first HS signal over multiple physiological cycles, and an ensemble average of a portion of the second HS signal over multiple physiological cycles; compute the first dissimilarity metric including a distance between the ensemble average of the portion of the third HS signal and the ensemble average of the portion of the first HS signal; and compute the second dissimilarity metric including a distance between the ensemble average of the portion of the third HS signal and the ensemble average of the portion of the second HS signal.
10. The system of claim 3, wherein the pacing analyzer circuit is configured to: transform a portion of third HS signal, a portion of the first HS signal, and a portion of the second HS signal; compute the first dissimilarity metric including a distance between the transformed portion of third HS signal and the transformed portion of the first HS signal; and compute the second dissimilarity metric including a distance between the transformed portion of third HS signal and the transformed portion of the second HS signal.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the transformation of the portion of the third HS signal, the portion of the first HS signal, and the portion of the second HS signal includes a projection of each of the portion of the third HS signal, the portion of the first HS signal, and the portion of the second HS signal onto a subspace or a specified direction in a vector space.
12. The system of claim 1, further comprising a therapy controller circuit coupled to the electrostimulation circuit, the therapy controller circuit configured to determine at least one therapy parameter based on the capture status indication, wherein the electrostimulation circuit is configured to deliver the electrostimulation according to the determined therapy parameter.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the HS sensor circuit is coupled to an accelerometer or a microphone configured to detect the HS signal including mechanical or acoustic activity of the heart indicative of HS.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the electrostimulation circuit is configured to deliver the multi-site electrostimulation to two or more sites of the left ventricle (LV) during a cardiac cycle, simultaneously or separated by a specified temporal offset less than a sensed or paced interval value of the cardiac cycle.
15. A method for evaluating electrostimulation of a heart, comprising: receiving a first heart sound (HS) morphology corresponding to electrostimulation at a first site of a chamber of the heart, and a second HS morphology corresponding to electrostimulation at a different second site of the chamber of the heart; delivering multi-site electrostimulation to two or more sites including both the first and second sites of the chamber of the heart; sensing a third HS signal during the delivery of the multi-site electrostimulation; and determining a capture status indication associated with the multi-site electrostimulation using a comparison of a morphology of the third HS signal to the received first and second HS morphologies, wherein the capture status indication includes one or more of a full capture indication indicating that the multi-site electrostimulation captures each of the two or more sites, or a partial capture indication indicating that the multi-site electrostimulation captures at least one of the two or more sites and fails to capture at least another one of the two or more sites.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein receiving the first and second HS morphologies includes receiving first and second HS signals during stimulation of respective first and second sites of a left ventricle (LV) of the heart, wherein the capture status indication indicates a full capture when the multi-site electrostimulation captures both the first and the second sites, or a partial capture when the multi-site electrostimulation captures only one of the first or the second site.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising generating a third HS feature vector using the third HS signal, generating a first HS feature vector using the first HS signal, and generating a second HS feature vector using the second HS signal, the first, second, or third feature vector each including a respective morphological feature; computing a first dissimilarity metric between the third HS feature vector and the first feature vector, and a second dissimilarity metric between the third HS feature vector and the second feature vector; and determining the capture status indication in response to the first and second dissimilarity metrics satisfying respective conditions.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a first threshold value and a second threshold value, wherein: determining the capture status indication includes determining a full capture indication in response to the first dissimilarity metric falling below the first threshold value and the second dissimilarity metric falling below the second threshold value, or a partial capture indication in response to only one of the first or second dissimilarity metric falling below the respective first or second threshold value.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the first dissimilarity metric includes a distance between the third HS feature vector and the first HS feature vector in a vector space, and the second dissimilarity metric includes a distance between the third HS feature vector and the second HS feature vector in the vector space.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the first, second, or third HS feature vector each further includes one or more of a signal portion, a transformed signal portion including a projection of a signal portion, an intensity measure, or a cardiac timing interval parameter of the respective HS signals.
</claims>
</document>
