<document>

<filing_date>
2013-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M3/00,H04M3/22,H04M3/51,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVAYA
</assignee>

<inventors>
REYNOLDS, BRIAN J.
THOMSON RODNEY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51527074
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive thresholding
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure is directed to methods for determining an adaptive threshold, including specifying a variable, where the variable comprises a real-time state of a contact center; specifying a threshold, where the threshold is related to the variable; monitoring the variable; and adjusting the threshold in relation to a change in the variable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: specifying, by a microprocessor, a real-time value that changes in real-time such that the real-time value represents real-time data related to an entity of a contact center; specifying and storing, by the microprocessor, a first threshold, wherein the first threshold is related to the real-time value; monitoring, by the microprocessor, the real-time value; automatically adjusting, by the microprocessor, the first threshold in relation to a change in the real-time value, specifying and storing, by the microprocessor, a second threshold that is related to the automatic adjustment by the microprocessor of the first threshold, and performing an action within the contact center based on the second threshold, wherein the action comprises at least one of automatically notifying a resource, invoking a recording function, and invoking a reporting function.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the microprocessor bases an amount of the automatic adjustment of the first threshold on the entity, and wherein the entity is one of an agent, a queue, and a skill.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: specifying, by the microprocessor, a second value, wherein the second value is related to the real-time value, wherein the second value is represents real-time data related to another one of the agent, the queue, and the skill, and wherein the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, by the microprocessor, is related to the second value.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: performing, by the microprocessor, an action in response to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, wherein the entity is the agent, and wherein the action comprises the microprocessor notifying the agent of the amount of the automatic adjustment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the notification is automated and at about a same time as the automatic notification, the microprocessor notifies the agent of a current status of the agent in relation to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: performing, by the microprocessor, an action in response to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, wherein the entity is the agent, and wherein the action comprises the microprocessor notifying a supervisor of the agent of a performance of the agent in relation to the automatic adjustment by the microprocessor of the first threshold.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: initiating, by the microprocessor, an action in response to the automatic adjustment by the microprocessor of the first threshold, wherein the action comprises a change to the behavior of the contact center.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: recording, by the microprocessor, the automatic adjustment to the first threshold to obtain recorded data; and analyzing, by the microprocessor, the recorded data to determine if the entity is underperforming or over-performing.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: reporting, by the microprocessor and to a supervisor of the entity, the recorded data and the analysis of the recorded data.
10. A computational system, comprising: a microprocessor and a computer-readable medium coupled thereto and storing instructions, wherein instructions program the microprocessor to: specify a real-time value that changes in real-time such that the real-time value represents real-time data related to an entity of a contact center; specify and store a first threshold, wherein the first threshold is related to the real-time value; monitor the real-time value; automatically adjust the first threshold in relation to a change in the real-time value; automatically adjust a second threshold based on an amount of the automatic adjustment of the first threshold; and perform an action within the contact center based on the second threshold, wherein the action comprises at least one of automatically notifying a resource, invoking a recording function, and invoking a reporting function.
11. A contact center, comprising: a plurality of network interfaces that enable an entity of the contact center to receive and service contacts, and a microprocessor in communication with the plurality of network interfaces that: specifies a real-time value that changes in real-time such that the real-time data represents real-time data related to the entity of the contact center; specifies and stores a first threshold, wherein the first threshold is related to the real-time value; monitors the real-time value; automatically adjusts the first threshold in relation to a change in the real-time value; automatically adjusts, a second threshold based on an amount of the automatic adjustment of the first threshold; and performs an action within the contact center based on the second threshold, wherein the action comprises at least one of automatically notifying a resource, invoking a recording function, and invoking a reporting function.
12. The contact center of claim 11, wherein the microprocessor bases an amount of the automatic adjustment of the first threshold on the entity and wherein the entity is one of an agent, a queue, and a skill.
13. The contact center of claim 12, wherein the microprocessor performs an action in response to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, wherein the entity is the agent, and wherein the action comprises the microprocessor notifying the agent of a status of the first threshold, notifying the agent of a report of the automatic adjustment in relation to a performance of the agent, and conditionally formatting a call handle time viewed by the agent.
14. The contact center of claim 12, wherein the microprocessor performs an action in response to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, wherein the entity is an agent, and wherein the action comprises the microprocessor adding information comprising the automatic adjustment of the first threshold to a work item that is viewed by the agent and that has an altered routing based on the real-time value, and notifying the agent and a supervisor of the agent of the automatic adjustment.
15. The contact center of claim 14, wherein the notifications are automated and at about a same time as the automatic notifications, the microprocessor notifies the agent of a current status of the agent in relation to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold.
16. The contact center of claim 11, wherein the microprocessor specifies a second real-time value that is related to the real-time value and a relationship between at least two of the agent, the queue, or the skill, wherein the second real-time value changes in real-time such that it represents real-time data of a contact center, and wherein the automatic adjustment of the first threshold is related to the second real-time value.
17. The contact center of claim 11, wherein the microprocessor performs an action in response to the automatic adjustment of the first threshold, wherein the action comprises a change by the microprocessor to the behavior of the contact center and a change by the microprocessor to a requirement for a secondary automatic adjustment of the threshold based on a secondary change in the real-time value.
18. The contact center of claim 11, wherein the action comprises the invoking the recording function, and wherein the recording function comprises the microprocessor recording the automatic adjustment and the secondary automatic adjustment to the first threshold to obtain recorded data and automatically notifying an entity of the recorded data.
</claims>
</document>
