<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/50,G06F30/20,G06N20/00,G06N3/00,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIVAKUMAR, GANDHI
PIKLE, ANAND
DHONDSE, AMOL A.
RUSU, LAURA I.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62712493
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Implementing cognitive modeling techniques to provide bidding support
</title>

<abstract>
A method for providing bidding support to a user during an auction using cognitive modeling comprises obtaining data associated with the auction, with the obtained data comprising data associated with at least one bidder. The obtained data is analyzed, and at least one output is generated based on the analysis. The at least one output is sent to at least one device associated with the user. The at least one device is configured to generate at least one alert based on the at least one output, with the at least one alert providing decision support to the user with respect to bidding strategy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: providing, by a cognitive bidding engine associated with a user, bidding support to the user during an auction using cognitive modeling, wherein providing bidding support using cognitive modeling comprises: obtaining an initial bidding strategy for the user; generating sensor data in real-time or near real-time by at least one sensing device located in physical proximity to the auction, the sensor data comprising at least one of audio data, video data and physiological data; determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, a physiological state of at least one bidder at the auction, the at least one bidder being different than the user; obtaining external factor data associated with the at least one bidder from at least one source external to the auction; obtaining historical data comprising at least one of bid history data, relevant weatherdata, and relevant historical event data; determining, based at least in part on the obtained external factor data, whether or not the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction; analyzing at least a portion of the generated sensor data, obtained external factor data and obtained historical data to determine a bid price threshold for the at least one bidder, wherein determining the bid price threshold for the given bidder comprises predicting the bid price threshold, and assigning a confidence score to the prediction; adjusting the bid price threshold for the at least one bidder based on a success of the prediction via at least one machine learning algorithm; in response to determining that the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction, updating the initial bidding strategy based at least in part on the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder and the adjusted bid price threshold to generate an updated bidding strategy; generating at least one output based at least in part on the updated bidding strategy; and providing the at least one generated output to at least one device associated with the user, wherein the at least one device is configured to generate at least one alert based at least in part on the at least one output, and wherein the at least one alert provides decision support to the user with respect to bidding strategy; wherein the cognitive bidding engine is in communication with at least one processing device operatively coupled to memory.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated sensor data further comprises current weather data associated with at least one weather related attribute of the auction; and wherein the obtained external factor data associated with the at least one bidder comprises personal data, the personal data comprising at least one of preference data, medical data and social data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the social data is obtained based on an analysis of social media data associated with the at least one bidder.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the relevant historical event data comprises data obtained via one or more application programming interfaces (APIs).
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the preference data is obtained from a self-learning and preferences database.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the current events data is obtained via social media data mining.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a bid strength based at least in part on the bid price threshold.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising performing risk profile modeling associated with the at least one user based at least in part on the physiological data.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein performing the risk profile modeling comprises comparing at least a portion of the physiological data against the relevant historical event data to predict one or more bid stretch thresholds.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein obtaining the initial bidding strategy comprises generating the initial bidding strategy based at least in part on at least a portion of one or more of the obtained data historical data, obtained external factor data and generated sensor data, and wherein updating the initial bidding strategy comprises dynamically updating the initial bidding strategy during the auction based at least in part on at least a portion of one or more of the obtained data historical data, obtained external factor data and generated sensor data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the initial bidding strategy is dynamically updated during the auction in response to an occurrence of an event during the auction related to the at least one bidding strategy.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising qualifying one or more commodities associated with the auction.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein qualifying the one or more commodities comprises dynamically adjusting a bid price threshold associated with the one or more commodities.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one generated alert comprises an alert selected from the group consisting of: a vibrational alert, a visual alert and an audio alert.
15. An article of manufacture comprising a computer-readable storage medium for storing computer-readable program code which, when executed, causes a computer to perform the steps of: providing, by a cognitive bidding engine associated with a user, bidding support to the user during an auction using cognitive modeling, wherein providing bidding support using cognitive modeling comprises: obtaining an initial bidding strategy for the user; generating sensor data in real-time or near real-time by at least one sensing device located in physical proximity to the auction; the sensor data comprising at least one of audio data, video data and physiological data; determining, based at least in part on the sensor data, a physiological state of at least one bidder at the auction, the at least one bidder being different than the user; obtaining external factor data associated with the at least one bidder from at least one source external to the auction; obtaining historical data comprising at least one of bid history data, relevant weather data, and relevant historical event data; determining, based at least in part on the obtained external factor data, whether or not the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction; analyzing at least a portion of the generated sensor data, obtained external factor data and obtained historical data to determine a bid price threshold for the at least one bidder, wherein determining the bid price threshold for the given bidder comprises predicting the bid price threshold, and assigning a confidence score to the prediction; adjusting the bid price threshold for the at least one bidder based on a success of the prediction via at least one machine learning algorithm; in response to determining that the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction, updating the initial bidding strategy based at least in part on the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder and the adjusted bid price threshold to generate an updated bidding strategy; generating at least one output based at least in part on the updated bidding strategy; and providing the at least one generated output to at least one device associated with the user, wherein the at least one device is configured to generate at least one alert based at least in part on the at least one output, and wherein the at least one alert provides decision support to the user with respect to bidding strategy.
16. An apparatus comprising: at least one processor operatively coupled to at least one memory; and a cognitive bidding engine in communication with the processor, wherein the cognitive bidding engine is associated with a user and configured to provide bidding support to the user during an auction using cognitive modeling; at least one sensing device located in physical proximity to the auction and configured to generate sensor data comprising at least one of audio data, video data and physiological data in real-time or near real-time; wherein the cognitive bidding engine is configured to: determine, based at least in part on the sensor data, a physiological state of at least one bidder at the auction, the at least one bidder being different than the user; obtain external factor data associated with the at least one bidder from at least one source external to the auction; obtain historical data comprising at least one of bid history data, relevant weather data, and relevant historical event data; determine, based at least in part on the obtained external factor data, whether or not the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction; analyze at least a portion of the generated sensor data, obtained external factor data and obtained historical data to determine a bid price threshold for the at least one bidder, wherein determining the bid price threshold for the given bidder comprises predicting the bid price threshold, and assigning a confidence score to the prediction; adjust the bid price threshold for the at least one bidder based on a success of the prediction via at least one machine learning algorithm; in response to determining that the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder is a physiological response of the at least one bidder to the auction, updating the initial bidding strategy based at least in part on the determined physiological state of the at least one bidder and the adjusted bid price threshold to generate an updated bidding strategy; generate at least one output based at least in part on the updated bidding strategy; and provide the at least one generated output to at least one device associated with the user, wherein the at least one device is configured to generate at least one alert based at least in part on the at least one output, and wherein the at least one alert provides decision support to the user with respect to bidding strategy.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the physiological state of the at least one bidder comprises at least one of a body language used by the at least one bidder, a physical attribute of the at least one bidder and a verbal attribute of the at least one bidder.
18. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the cognitive bidding engine is further configured to qualify one or more commodities associated with the auction.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein qualifying the one or more commodities comprises dynamically adjusting a bid price threshold associated with the one or more commodities.
20. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the at least one generated alert comprises an alert selected from the group consisting of: a vibrational alert, a visual alert and an audio alert.
</claims>
</document>
