<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/50,G06F30/13,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AUTODESK
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOEL, SHUBHAM
KASKIRIS, CHARIS
KEANEY, PATRICIA
RAJAGOPAL, ANAND
VENUGOPAL, MANU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64460659
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Architecture, engineering and construction (AEC) risk analysis system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method provide the ability to control an architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) project workflow. AEC data regarding a quality of construction is obtained. A set of classifiers and machine learning models are obtained. The AEC data is augmented based on the set of classifiers and machine learning models. A risk metric is generated for one or more issues in the AEC data based on the augmented AEC data. The risk metric is interactively generated and presented on a display device. Work, project resourcing, and/or training are prioritized based on the risk metric.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for controlling an architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) project workflow, comprising: (a) obtaining AEC data regarding a quality of construction for a construction project, wherein the AEC data comprises building information (BIM) models, contracts, construction quality data, construction safety data, construction project management data, construction images, and construction text; (b) building a set of classifiers and machine learning models using the construction quality data recorded daily by a construction team on a construction jobsite, wherein the set of classifiers and machine learning models identify historical contributing factors that impact completion of the construction project; (c) augmenting the AEC data based on the set of classifiers and machine learning models; (d) generating a risk metric for one or more issues in the AEC data based on the augmented AEC data, wherein the risk metric: (1) predicts a subcontractor rating at an issue level that is used to distinguish subcontractors; and (2) predicts a project risk level based on quality, safety, schedule, and cost; (e) interactively presenting a visualization of the risk metric on a display device, wherein the visualization comprises: (1) a heatmap of subcontractor risk levels over time, wherein the heatmap is used to further compare and hire subcontractors for the construction project; and (2) an interface showing all projects ranked by risk level on a daily duration or an overall time duration; and wherein the interactively presenting comprises: generating the visualization of the risk metric; modifying the risk metric based on user input in the visualization; and updating one or more of the machine learning models based on the modification, wherein the machine learning models provide a feedback loop that predicts the risk metric; and (f) via the visualization, prioritizing work, project resourcing, and/or training based on the risk metric.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the AEC data further comprises: structured numerical transaction data representative of transactions in the construction project; slicers for project type and issue type that are representative of distributions of time-bound transactions in the construction project; the construction text utilized as input for management of the construction project; and the construction images utilized as input for management of the construction project.
3. A computer-implemented method for controlling an architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) project workflow, comprising: obtaining AEC data regarding a quality of construction; obtaining a set of classifiers and machine learning models; augmenting the AEC data based on the set of classifiers and machine learning models; generating a risk metric for one or more issues in the AEC data based on the augmented AEC data; interactively presenting the risk metric on a display device wherein the interactively presenting comprises: generating a visualization of the risk metric; modifying the risk metric based on user input in the visualization; and updating one or more of the machine learning models based on the modification, wherein the machine learning models provide a feedback loop that predicts the risk metric; and prioritizing work, project resourcing, and/or training based on the risk metric.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the AEC data comprises: structured transactions; semi-structured text; images; and models, designs, or documents.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: converting and normalizing the AEC data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: assessing a quality of the AEC data based on cleanliness of a construction project, construction context fitness, and standards conformance.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the augmenting comprises: augmenting the AEC data based on a text categorization, image classifiers, context awareness, and labelling.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the augmenting further comprises: augmenting the AEC data based on transactional identifiers relating to one or more transactions occurring during construction, wherein the transactional identifiers relate to a category of risk.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the augmenting further comprises: augmenting the AEC data based on transaction risk classifiers that classify a level of risk of each of one or more transactions.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the generating the risk metric comprises: generating a subcontractor risk score based on a frequency of issues, recency of issues, and benchmarks for subcontractors.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein the updated machine learning model is utilized to distinguish subcontractors.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the generating the risk metric comprises: generating a project risk score based on a frequency of issues, recency of issues, and benchmarks for projects.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the machine learning model predicts the risk metrics for other projects.
14. A system for controlling an architecture, engineering, and construction (AEC) project workflow, comprising: (a) a computer; (b) a data layer maintained by the computer, wherein the data layer comprises: (1) AEC data representative of a quality of construction; (2) a set of classifiers and machine learning models; (c) a data augmentation layer maintained by the computer, wherein the data augmentation layer comprises: (1) data augmentors that augment the AEC data based on the set of classifiers and machine learning models; (d) a model scoring layer executed by the computer, wherein the model scoring layer: (1) generates a risk metric for one or more issues in the AEC data based on the augmentation layer; and (2) interactively presents the risk metric on a display device; wherein the interactively presents comprises: generating a visualization of the risk metric; modifying the risk metric based on user input in the visualization; and updating one or more of the machine learning models based on the modification, wherein the one or more machine learning models provide a feedback loop that predicts the risk metric; and wherein work, project resourcing, and/or training are prioritized to conduct construction based on the risk metric.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the AEC data comprises: structured transactions; semi-structured text; images; and models, designs, or documents.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the data layer further comprises a data conversion and normalization component that converts and normalizes the AEC data.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the data layer further comprises a data quality assessment score component that assesses a quality of the AEC data based on cleanliness of a construction project, construction context fitness, and standards conformance.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the data augmentors augment the AEC data based on a text categorization, image classifiers, context awareness, and labelling.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the data augmentation layer further comprises a transactional identifier component that augments the AEC data based on transactional identifiers relating to one or more transactions occurring during construction, wherein the transactional identifiers relate to a category of risk.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein the data augmentation layer further comprises a transactional risk classifier component that augments the AEC data based on transaction risk classifiers that classify a level of risk of each of one or more transactions.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein the model scoring layer further comprises a subcontractor risk score component that generates a subcontractor risk score based on a frequency of issues, recency of issues, and benchmarks for subcontractors.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the updated machine learning model is utilized to distinguish subcontractors.
23. The system of claim 14, wherein the model scoring layer further comprises a project risk score component that generates a project risk score based on a frequency of issues, recency of issues, and benchmarks for projects.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the machine learning model predicts the risk metrics for other projects.
</claims>
</document>
