<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,H04L12/26,H04L12/801,H04L12/927
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRATT, JAMES H.
WILKINS, WILEY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63246878
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User purchase profiling from electronic purchase confirmation messages
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include a processor obtaining an authorization to identify electronic purchase confirmation messages in a plurality of electronic messages for a user and to maintain a user purchase profile of the user. The processor may collect the plurality of electronic messages for the user, identifying the electronic purchase confirmation messages in the plurality of electronic messages, and determine a purchase category and a purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified. The processor may further obtain a verification of the purchase category that is determined from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified, update the user purchase profile in accordance with the purchase category and the purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified, and perform an automated action in accordance with the user purchase profile that is updated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable storage medium storing instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining an authorization to identify electronic purchase confirmation messages in a plurality of electronic messages for a user and to maintain a user purchase profile of the user; collecting the plurality of electronic messages for the user; identifying the electronic purchase confirmation messages in the plurality of electronic messages; determining a purchase category and a purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; obtaining a verification of the purchase category that is determined from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; updating the user purchase profile in accordance with the purchase category and the purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; and performing an automated action in accordance with the user purchase profile that is updated, wherein the performing the automated action comprises: disabling a network resource of a telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile; or allocating the network resource of the telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electronic messages includes at least one of: an email; a short message service message; or a message of an over-the-top messaging application.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the plurality of electronic messages for the user is obtained from at least one of: an email server; a short message service server; a server of the over-the-top messaging application; or an electronic device of the user.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the identifying the electronic purchase confirmation messages in the plurality of electronic messages comprises identifying at least one of purchase confirmation related: words, phrases, symbols, or monetary character sets.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the plurality of electronic messages includes electronic messages from at least one of: a server of a merchant engaging in a sale with the user; or a server of a payment processing entity processing a payment for a purchase of the user.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the performing the automated action further comprises: restricting a usage of an account by the user based upon the user purchase profile.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the performing the automated action further comprises: restricting access by an electronic device of the user to a merchant website, based upon the user purchase profile.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the performing the automated action further comprises: automatically ordering an item from a merchant for the user based upon the user purchase profile.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: presenting, via a dashboard interface on an electronic device of the user, the user purchase profile that is updated.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the verification of the purchase category that is determined from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified is obtained from the user via the dashboard interface.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a rule for the automated action.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the rule is received via a dashboard interface from the user or from an account holder associated with the user.
13. The device of claim 1, wherein the authorization is obtained from the user.
14. The device of claim 1, wherein the authorization is obtained from an account holder associated with the user.
15. The device of claim 1, wherein the verification is obtained from an account holder associated with the user.
16. The device of claim 1, wherein the purchase category from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified is determined in accordance with a plurality of purchase categories provided by the user.
17. The device of claim 1, wherein the purchase category from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified is determined in accordance with a plurality of purchase categories provided by an account holder associated with the user.
18. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a processor, an authorization to identify electronic purchase confirmation messages in a plurality of electronic messages for a user and to maintain a user purchase profile of the user; collecting, by the processor, the plurality of electronic messages for the user; identifying, by the processor, the electronic purchase confirmation messages in the plurality of electronic messages; determining, by the processor, a purchase category and a purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; obtaining, by the processor, a verification of the purchase category that is determined from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; updating, by the processor, the user purchase profile in accordance with the purchase category and the purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; and performing, by the processor, an automated action in accordance with the user purchase profile that is updated, wherein the performing the automated action comprises: disabling a network resource of a telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile; or allocating the network resource of the telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of electronic messages includes at least one of: an email; a short message service message; or a message of an over-the-top messaging application.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining an authorization to identify electronic purchase confirmation messages in a plurality of electronic messages for a user and to maintain a user purchase profile of the user; collecting the plurality of electronic messages for the user; identifying the electronic purchase confirmation messages in the plurality of electronic messages; determining a purchase category and a purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; obtaining a verification of the purchase category that is determined from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; updating the user purchase profile in accordance with the purchase category and the purchase amount from each of the electronic purchase confirmation messages that is identified; and performing an automated action in accordance with the user purchase profile that is updated, wherein the performing the automated action comprises: disabling a network resource of a telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile; or allocating the network resource of the telecommunication network based upon the user purchase profile.
</claims>
</document>
