<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G05D1/02,G08G1/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/09,G08G1/16,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO CORPORATION
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
KONISHI, KENJI
VOLOS, HARIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67391364
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Travel routing selection system and methods implemented based on characterization of historical latency data
</title>

<abstract>
A travel route selection system is provided and includes historical latency data and travel route modules. The historical latency data module includes data and characterization modules. The data module collects historical latency data. The historical latency data are associated with transmission of signals in a network for one or more vehicle applications of a vehicle. The characterization module: obtains characteristic distributions of the historical latency data at selected locations along travel routes; based on the characteristic distributions, (i) calculates metrics along the travel routes for the vehicle, or (ii) combines the characteristic distributions to obtain an overall distribution for each of the travel routes; and based on the metrics or the overall distribution, performs a statistical process to predict latencies of the signals along each of the travel routes. The travel route module selects one of the travel routes based on the predicted latencies of the signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A travel route selection system comprising: a historical latency data module comprising a first data module configured to collect historical latency data, wherein the historical latency data are associated with transmission of signals in a network for one or more vehicle applications of a vehicle, and a characterization module configured to obtain characteristic distributions of the historical latency data at selected locations along a plurality of travel routes, based on the characteristic distributions, perform at least one of (i) calculating metrics along the plurality of travel routes for the vehicle, or (ii) combining the characteristic distributions to obtain an overall distribution for each of the plurality of travel routes, and based on at least one of the metrics or the overall distributions, perform a statistical process to predict latencies of the signals along each of the plurality of travel routes; and a travel route module configured to select one of the plurality of travel routes based on the predicted latencies of the signals.
2. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the historical latency data are obtained from at least one of a historical latency database, a road side device, a second vehicle, a network device, or a cloud-based server.
3. The travel route selection system of claim 1, further comprising a second data module configured to collect contextual data corresponding to the historical latency data, wherein the first data module is configured to collect the historical latency data based on the contextual data, such that the historical latency data have similar corresponding contextual data.
4. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein: the characterization module is configured to characterize the historical latency data corresponding to distances along the plurality of travel routes; and the travel route module is configured to select the one of the plurality of travel routes based on the characterization of the historical latency data.
5. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the characterization module is configured to, based on the characteristic distributions, calculate the metrics along the plurality of travel routes; and the metrics include a minimum latency, a maximum latency, and a sum of latencies.
6. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic distributions include a probability distribution function or a cumulative distribution function.
7. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein: the travel route module is configured to select the one of the plurality of travel routes based on a score function value of metrics of the one of the plurality of travel routes and score function values of metrics of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes: and the metrics of the one of the plurality of travel routes and the metrics of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes include total distance of route, a minimum latency, a maximum latency, an amount of traffic and a cost of communication.
8. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the travel route module is configured to select the one of the plurality of travel routes with a least overall latency as compared to overall latencies of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes.
9. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the travel route module is configured to select the one of the plurality of travel routes based on the overall distribution of the one of the plurality of travel routes and the overall distributions of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes.
10. A vehicle system comprising: the travel route selection system of claim 1; and a vehicle control module configured to control operation of one or more vehicle devices to facilitate routing of the vehicle along the selected one of the plurality of travel routes.
11. A method of operating a vehicle route selection system, the method comprising: collecting historical latency data associated with transmission of signals in a network for one or more vehicle applications of a vehicle; obtaining characteristic distributions of the historical latency data at selected locations along a plurality of travel routes; based on the characteristic distributions, performing at least one of (i) calculating metrics along the plurality of travel routes for the vehicle, or (ii) combining the characteristic distributions to obtain an overall distribution for each of the plurality of travel routes; based on at least one of the metrics or the overall distributions, performing a statistical process to predict latencies of the signals along each of the plurality of travel routes; and selecting one of the plurality of travel routes based on the predicted latencies of the signals.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the historical latency data are obtained from at least one of a historical latency database, a road side device, a second vehicle, a network device, or a cloud-based server.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising collecting contextual data corresponding to the historical latency data, wherein the historical latency data are collected based on the contextual data, such that the historical latency data have similar corresponding contextual data.
14. The method of claim 11, comprising: characterizing the historical latency data corresponding to distances along the plurality of travel routes; and selecting the one of the plurality of travel routes based on the characterization of the historical latency data.
15. The method of claim 11, comprising, based on the characteristic distributions, calculating the metrics along the plurality of travel routes for the vehicle, wherein the metrics include a minimum latency, a maximum latency, and a sum of latencies.
16. The method of claim 11, comprising, based on the characteristic distributions, calculating the metrics along the plurality of travel routes for the vehicle, wherein the metrics include a sum of latencies for a predetermined confidence level.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the characteristic distributions include a probability distribution function or a cumulative distribution function.
18. The method of claim 11, comprising selecting the one of the plurality of travel routes based on metrics of the one of the plurality of travel routes and metrics of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes.
19. The method of claim 11, comprising selecting the one of the plurality of travel routes with a least overall latency as compared to overall latencies of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes.
20. The method of claim 11, comprising selecting the one of the plurality of travel routes based on the overall distribution of the one of the plurality of travel routes and the overall distributions of the other ones of the plurality of travel routes.
21. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic distributions include latency estimates for distances along the travel routes.
22. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein: the characterization module is configured to use the metrics to define score function values for each of the plurality of travel routes; and each of the score function values are based on a sum of weighted minimum latency values, maximum latency values and distance values.
23. The travel route selection system of claim 1, wherein the characterization module is configured to predict the latencies of the signals along each of the plurality of travel routes using a Gaussian process.
</claims>
</document>
