<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/50,G06F30/13,G06F30/20,G06N20/00,G06N20/10,G06N20/20,G06N3/02,G06N5/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ONE CONCERN
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRANK, TIMOTHY
HU, NICOLE
WANI, AHMAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64272418
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Estimation of damage prevention with building retrofit
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and computer programs are presented for estimating the differences, due to building retrofitting, in damage caused to a building by an earthquake. One method includes operations for accessing a database to retrieve current fragility functions for predicting structural damage to a building, and for identifying features of the building. The method further includes operations for identifying a retrofit measure having a cost to improve the building structure, and for estimating a first building damage after a simulated earthquake utilizing a machine-learning program and the current fragility functions. The method further includes operations for determining new fragility functions for the building based on the retrofit measure and the current fragility functions, for estimating a second building damage after the simulated earthquake utilizing the new fragility functions, and for determining the difference in damage resulting from the retrofit measure based on the first and the second building damage.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method comprising: accessing, using one or more processors of a computer device, a plurality of features of a building and current fragility functions for the plurality of features of the building, wherein each current fragility function expresses a probability function for damage to the associated feature caused by a range of spectral accelerations caused by an earthquake; estimating, by the one or more processors, a first damage to the building after a simulated earthquake utilizing a machine-learning program, the machine-learning program estimating the first damage based on values of the plurality of features of the building, the current fragility functions for the features of the building, and an spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake that is within the range of spectral accelerations; identifying a retrofit measure to improve a structure of the building, the retrofit measure being associated with a cost; determining, by the one or more processors, updates to values of one or more from the plurality of features of the building based on the retrofit measure; determining new fragility functions for the plurality of features of the building based on the retrofit measure and the current fragility functions; estimating, by the one or more processors, a second damage to the building after the simulated earthquake utilizing the machine-learning program, the machine-learning program estimating the second damage based on the updated values of the features of the building, the new fragility functions, and the spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake; and determining, by the one or more processors, an effect of the retrofit measure based on an analysis of the cost of the retrofit measure, the first damage and the second damage.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: recalculating, by the machine-learning program, the first damage and the second damage for a plurality of scenarios of simulated earthquakes with different epicenters and different amounts of shaking suffered by the building; and aggregating the first damage and the second damage from the plurality of scenarios to identify an expected benefit from the retrofit measure.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the one or more processors using the machine-learning program, buildings in a region with a risk of collapse above a predetermined threshold after the simulated earthquake; and determining a difference in damage resulting from the retrofit measure for the identified buildings.
4. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the retrofit measure is an alteration made to a built structure that decreases a probability of damage to the built structure after an earthquake.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein each current fragility function has a mean and a standard deviation, wherein determining each new fragility function further comprises increasing the mean of the current fragility function to generate the new fragility function.
6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the increase of the mean of the current fragility function is based on the retrofit measure, wherein the new fragility function predicts a lower probability of damage caused by the simulated earthquake than does the current fragility function.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: estimating damage savings for the simulated earthquake for a plurality of potential retrofit measures, and presenting the damage savings for the plurality of potential retrofit measures.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the features used by the machine-learning program are classified into built environment features, natural environment features, and instantaneous line features, wherein the built environment features comprise a structure location, a structure size, a structure price, a year in which the structure was built, a number of stories of the structure, whether the structure is commercial or residential, and a building material of the structure.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein determining the new fragility functions further comprises: assigning the new fragility function that is a combination of two or more predefined fragility functions, each predefined fragility function of the combination having a respective weight.
10. A system comprising: a memory comprising instructions; and one or more computer processors, wherein the instructions, when executed by the one or more computer processors, cause the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: accessing a plurality of features of a building and current fragility functions for the plurality of features of the building, wherein each current fragility function expresses a probability function for damage to the associated feature caused by a range of spectral accelerations caused by an earthquake; estimating a first damage to the building after a simulated earthquake utilizing a machine-learning program, the machine-learning program estimating the first damage based on values of the plurality of features of the building, the current fragility functions for the features of the building and an spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake that is within the range of spectral accelerations; identifying a retrofit measure to improve a structure of the building, the retrofit measure being associated with a cost; determining updates to values of one or more from the plurality of features of the building based on the retrofit measure; determining new fragility functions for the plurality of features of the building based on the retrofit measure and the current fragility functions; estimating a second damage to the building after the simulated earthquake utilizing the machine-Teaming program the machine-learning program estimating the second damage based on the updated values of the features of the building, the new fragility functions, and the spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake; and determining an effect of the retrofit measure based on an analysis of the cost of the retrofit measure, the first damage and the second damage.
11. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: recalculating, by the machine-learning program, the first damage and the second damage for a plurality of scenarios of simulated earthquakes with different epicenters and different amounts of shaking suffered by the building; and aggregating the first damage and the second damage from the plurality of scenarios to identify an expected benefit from the retrofit measure.
12. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: identifying, by the machine-learning program, buildings in a region with a risk of collapse above a predetermined threshold after the simulated earthquake; and determining a difference in damage resulting from the retrofit measure for the identified buildings.
13. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein each current fragility function has a mean and a standard deviation, wherein determining each new fragility function further comprises increasing the mean of the current fragility function to generate the new fragility function.
14. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more computer processors to perform Operations comprising: estimating damage savings for the simulated earthquake for a plurality of potential retrofit measures; and presenting the damage savings for the plurality of potential retrofit measures.
15. Anon-transitory machine-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a machine, cause the machine to perform operations comprising: accessing a plurality of features of a building and current fragility functions for the plurality of features of the building, wherein each current fragility function expresses a probability function for damage to the associated feature caused by a range of spectral accelerations caused by an earthquake; estimating a first damage to the building after a simulated earthquake utilizing a machine-learning program, the machine-learning program estimating the first damage based on values of the plurality of features of the building, the current fragility functions for the features of the building, and an spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake at is within the range of spectral accelerations; identifying a retrofit measure to improve a structure of the building, the retrofit measure being associated with a cost; determining updates to values of one or more from the plurality of features of the building based on the retrofit measure; determining new fragility functions for the features of the building based on the retrofit measure and the current fragility functions; estimating a second damage to the building after the simulated earthquake utilizing the machine-learning program, the machine-learning program estimating the second damage based on the updated values of the features of the building, the new fragility functions, and the spectral acceleration caused by the simulated earthquake; and determining an effect of the retrofit measure based on an analysis of the cost of the retrofit measure, the first damage and the second damage.
16. The machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the machine further performs operations comprising: recalculating, by the machine-learning program, the first damage and the second damage for a plurality of scenarios of simulated earthquakes with different epicenters and different amounts of shaking suffered by the building; and aggregating the first damage and the second damage from the plurality of scenarios to identify an expected benefit from the retrofit measure.
17. The machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the machine further performs operations comprising: identifying, by the machine-learning program, buildings in a region with a risk of collapse above a predetermined threshold after the simulated earthquake; and determining a difference in damage resulting from the retrofit measure for the identified buildings.
18. The machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein each current fragility function has a mean and a standard deviation, wherein determining each new fragility function further comprises increasing the mean of the current fragility function to generate the new fragility function.
19. The machine-readable storage medium as recited in claim 15, wherein the machine further performs operations comprising: estimating damage savings for the simulated earthquake for a plurality of potential retrofit measures; and presenting the damage savings for the plurality of potential retrofit measures.
20. The system as recited in claim 10, wherein determining the new fragility functions further comprises: assigning the new fragility function that is a combination of two or more predefined fragility functions, each predefined fragility function of the combination having a respective weight.
</claims>
</document>
