<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A24D1/14,A24F47/00,B65B3/14,B65B3/28,B65D25/10,B67D7/02,B67D7/14,B67D7/32,B67D7/82
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIRGRAFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BARBARIC, MLADEN
KIM, BONG GEUN
KIM, KISAE
KIM, SUNGMOON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70162237
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for filling a prepackaged container
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, an apparatus includes a housing and a mount. The housing includes a cover portion and a base portion. The cover portion and the base portion define an interior. The housing defines an opening via which the interior can be accessed from a region external to the housing. The mount is coupled to the base portion and configured to maintain a position of a fillable component within the interior of the housing such that an elastomeric membrane of the fillable component is aligned with the opening defined by the housing and a reservoir of the fillable component is accessible by a needle via the opening and the elastomeric membrane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: reading an identifier disposed on an outer surface of the package, the identifier associated with the fillable component; validating, based on the identifier, a source of the package; translating, after validating the source of the package, a needle in a first direction from a first position in which the needle is spaced from a resealable membrane of a fillable component to a second position in which a distal end of the needle is disposed in a reservoir of the fillable component and a portion of the needle is disposed within an opening in the resealable membrane, the fillable component disposed within a package having an opening aligned with the resealable membrane of the fillable component such that the distal end of the needle is translated through the opening during the translation of the needle from the first position to the second position, the opening of the package being sufficiently small such that the fillable component cannot pass through the opening, delivering a quantity of a consumable substance from a supply reservoir through the lumen of the needle into the reservoir of the fillable component, and translating the needle in the second direction from the second position to the first position such that the needle is translated out of contact with the fillable component and the resealable membrane of the fillable component reseals the opening in the resealable membrane.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the fillable component is a capsule configured to be operatively coupled to a vaporizer pen.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the fillable component is a vaporizer device configured to heat the consumable substance in the reservoir.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the delivering the quantity of the consumable substance from the supply reservoir includes drawing the quantity of the consumable substance into a syringe and pushing the quantity of the consumable substance from the syringe and through the lumen of the needle.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: heating, via a heating element, the consumable substance to a predetermined temperature, prior to the delivering the quantity of the consumable substance from the supply reservoir.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: measuring, after the translating of the needle in the second direction, a weight of the package, and determining whether the weight of the quantity of the package is within a predetermined range.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining whether the package passes a quality check based, at least in part, on whether the weight of the quantity of the package is within the predetermined range.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier is a QR code.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting fill information associated with the identifier and the quantity of the consumable substance to a remote server.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: marking the fillable component, using a marking assembly, to indicate the consumable substance disposed in the reservoir of the fillable component.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the fillable component has a mouthpiece and is disposed entirely within an interior of the package.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the package includes a cover portion and a base portion defining the interior, one of the cover portion and the base portion defining the opening.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein a mount is coupled to the base portion and configured to maintain a position of the fillable component within the interior of the package such that the resealable membrane is aligned with the opening.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the mount includes a first securing tab and a second securing tab, the mount configured to receive the fillable component between the first securing tab and the second securing tab.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the fillable component is a capsule configured to be operably coupled to a vaporizer pen such that the vaporizer pen controls heating of a substance in the reservoir.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the fillable component is a vaporizer device configured to heat a substance in the reservoir.
17. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the cover portion includes a first cover portion and a second cover portion, the cover portion configured to be transitioned between a closed configuration in which the fillable component can be enclosed within the interior of the package and an open configuration in which the fillable component can be retrieved from the interior of the housing, the first cover portion being disposed in a first position relative to the second cover portion in the closed configuration and in a second position relative to the second cover portion in the open configuration.
18. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the cover portion defines perforations separating the first cover portion from the second cover portion such that the first cover portion is configured to be separated from the second cover portion via the perforations to transition the cover portion between the closed configuration and the open configuration.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the cover portion includes an elongated tab coupling the first cover portion to the second cover portion in the closed configuration, the elongated tab configured to be at least partially separated from the first cover portion and the second cover portion such that the cover portion can be transitioned from the closed configuration to the open configuration.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein validating the source of the package includes determining if the source is valid or invalid.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the identifier is a QR code.
22. The method of claim 20, further comprising: transmitting fill information associated with the identifier and the quantity of the consumable substance to a remote server.
23. The method of claim 20, wherein the validating the source of the package includes determining that the source is valid when the source is determined to be known based on the identifier.
24. The method of claim 10, wherein the identifier is a QR code.
25. The method of claim 10, wherein the fill information includes a type of the consumable substance.
26. A method, comprising: reading an identifier associated with the fillable component, the identifier being disposed on an outer surface of the package; translating a needle in a first direction from a first position in which the needle is spaced from a resealable membrane of a fillable component to a second position in which a distal end of the needle is disposed in a reservoir of the fillable component and a portion of the needle is disposed within an opening in the resealable membrane, the fillable component disposed within a package having an opening aligned with the resealable membrane of the fillable component such that the distal end of the needle is translated through the opening during the translation of the needle from the first position to the second position, the opening of the package being sufficiently small such that the fillable component cannot pass through the opening; delivering a quantity of a consumable substance from a supply reservoir through the lumen of the needle into the reservoir of the fillable component; translating the needle in the second direction from the second position to the first position such that the needle is translated out of contact with the fillable component and the resealable membrane of the fillable component reseals the opening in the resealable membrane; and transmitting fill information associated with the identifier and the quantity of the consumable substance to a remote server.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the identifier is a QR code.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the fill information includes a type of the consumable substance.
</claims>
</document>
