<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N3/02,G06Q10/10,G10L17/00,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHENG, YU-HSIANG
CREWS, KEVIN
GOWATCH, AARON
GUILLAUME, NICOLAS CYRIL
HARDT, DICK CLARENCE
LEBLANG, JONATHAN ALAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838706
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-factor location-based authentication
</title>

<abstract>
A system is provided that determines a location of a user based on various criteria. The system may detect the location of a user based on the location of the user's device, as determined using a beacon signal, and an expected location of the user's device, as determined using schedule information. The system may process data representing the user's device location and expected location using a model to determine a confidence that a user is at a particular location. Based on the determined location, the system may perform various actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a data store; a beacon transmitter; and one or more computer processors in communication with the data store and the beacon transmitter, wherein the one or more computer processors are configured to at least: receive meeting data from the data store, wherein the meeting data comprises: invitee data representing one or more users invited to a meeting; schedule data representing a scheduled time of the meeting; and first location data representing a meeting location associated with the meeting; transmit, via the beacon transmitter, a beacon signal comprising: source identification data representing a first device identifier associated with the beacon transmitter; and time data representing a time period during which the beacon signal is valid, wherein the time period comprises the scheduled time; receive, from a user device, user device data comprising: detected beacon data representing the first device identifier and the time period; and receiver identification data representing a second device identifier associated with the user device; determine that the user device is associated with the user based on the second device identifier; analyze the user device data to determine the first device identifier associated with the beacon transmitter; determine a location of the beacon transmitter during the time period based on the first device identifier; generate second location data, representing a location of the user device, based on the location of the beacon transmitter; calculate a confidence score using a model, the confidence score representing a confidence that the user is at the meeting location; determine that the user is likely at the meeting location at the scheduled time based on the confidence score; generate attendance data representing a presence of the user at the meeting location at the scheduled time; and determine whether to provide access to requested data based at least partly on the attendance data representing the presence of the user at the meeting location at the scheduled time.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to at least obtain a plurality of voice models prior to the scheduled time, wherein a first voice model of the plurality of voice models is obtained based on: the first voice model being associated with the user; and the first user being one of the one or more users invited to the meeting.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to at least: receive a request from the user for the requested data; determine a security level associated with the requested data; determine that the user is associated with the security level, wherein the determination of whether to provide access to the requested data is based at least partly on the determination that the user is associated with the security level and the determination that the user is likely at the meeting location; and provide access to the requested data.
4. A computer-implemented method comprising: under control of a computing system comprising one or more computer processors configured to execute specific instructions, receiving scheduled location data representing a user expected to be at a scheduled location at a scheduled time; receiving, from a user device associated with the user, detected beacon data representing a beacon signal detected by the user device, wherein the detected beacon data comprises a first device identifier of a source of the beacon signal; generating device location data, representing a location of the user device, based on a predetermined location of the source of the beacon signal; calculating a confidence score, representing a confidence that the user is at the scheduled location, based on the scheduled location data and the device location data; determining that the user is likely at the scheduled location based on the confidence score; and determining whether to provide access to requested data based at least partly on the determination that the user is likely at the scheduled location.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising generating presence data representing a presence of the user at the scheduled location at the scheduled time based on determining that the user is likely at the scheduled location.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising receiving, from the user device, second device location data representing a location of the user device as determined by the user device, wherein calculating the confidence score is further based on the second device location data.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving audio data representing a voice command to start a meeting; determining, using a voice model associated with the user, that the voice command was spoken by the user; accessing meeting data associated with the user, wherein the meeting data represents connection information for initiating an electronic communication session associated with the meeting; and initiating the electronic communication session.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving a request for the requested data; determining a security level associated with the requested data; and determining that the user is not associated with the security level; wherein determining whether to provide access to the requested data comprises determining not to provide access to the requested data based on the user likely being at the scheduled location and the user not being associated with the security level.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising obtaining a plurality of voice models, wherein a first voice model of the plurality of voice models is obtained based on the first voice model being associated with the user.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising sending the plurality of voice models to a communication device remote from the computing system.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein calculating the confidence score is further based on additional location data representing: a location of a microphone that has captured audio data representing a user utterance; a location of a camera that has captured image data representing a facial feature; or a location of a second user device associated with a second user.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein calculating the confidence score comprises: generating a feature vector comprising the scheduled location data and the device location data; and processing the feature vector using a machine learning model trained using a corpus of training data representing user device locations, scheduled locations, and corresponding user locations.
13. A system comprising: computer-readable memory storing executable instructions; and one or more processors in communication with the computer-readable memory and configured by the executable instructions to at least: receive scheduled location data representing a user expected to be at a scheduled location at a scheduled time; receive, from a computing device, detected beacon data representing a beacon signal detected by the computing device, wherein the detected beacon data comprises a first device identifier of a user device associated with the user, wherein the user device is a source of the beacon signal; generate device location data, representing a location of the user device, based at least partly on location data associated with the beacon signal; calculate a confidence score, representing a confidence that the user is at the scheduled location, based at least partly on the scheduled location data and the device location data; determine that the user is likely at the scheduled location based at least partly on the confidence score; and determine whether to provide access to requested data based at least partly on the determination that the user is likely at the scheduled location.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to at least receive, from the user device, second device location data representing a location of the user device as determined by the user device, wherein calculating the confidence score is further based on the second device location data.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to at least: receive audio data representing a voice command to start a meeting; determine, using a voice model associated with the user, that the voice command was spoken by the user; access meeting data associated with the user, wherein the meeting data represents connection information for initiating an electronic communication session associated with the meeting; and initiate the electronic communication session.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to at least: receive a request for the requested data; determine a security level associated with the requested data; and determine that the user is not associated with the security level; wherein the determination of whether to provide access to the requested data comprises a determination not to provide access to the requested data based on the user likely being at the scheduled location and the user not being associated with the security level.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to at least obtain a plurality of voice models, wherein a first voice model of the plurality of voice models is obtained based on the first voice model being associated with the user.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to determine that data representing the user is not included in invitee data representing invitees to the scheduled location at the scheduled time, wherein the determination of whether to provide access to the requested data comprises a determination not to provide access to the requested data.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to determine that data representing the user is included in invitee data representing invitees to the scheduled location at the scheduled time, wherein the determination of whether to provide access to the requested data comprises a determination to provide access to the requested data.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more processors are further configured by the executable instructions to: receive, from the computing device, time data representing a time period during which the beacon signal is valid; and determine that the scheduled time is within the time period during which the beacon signal is valid.
</claims>
</document>
