<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/21,G06F40/10,G06F40/20,G06N20/00,G10L15/26,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAYES, MARK AMMAR
DAHIR, HAZIM HASHIM
DARWISH, IBRAHIM AMIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67842210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identification and logging of conversations using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a processor receives data indicative of a plurality of conversations involving a primary user. The processor identifies a subset of the plurality of conversations that are regarding a particular topic. The processor adds a conversation to the subset based on a match between one or more keywords in the conversation matching a list of keywords associated with the particular topic. The processor uses a machine learning-based model to identify one or more context characteristics of the conversations in the identified subset. The processor updates the subset of conversations by adding at least one of the conversations to the subset based on the at least one conversation having at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model. The processor provides data indicative of the updated subset of conversations to a user interface for review by the primary user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a processor in a network, audio data captured by one or more audio capture devices in the network, the audio data comprising data indicative of a plurality of conversations involving a primary user; identifying, by the processor, a subset of the plurality of conversations that are regarding a particular topic, wherein the processor adds a conversation to the subset based on a match between one or more keywords in the conversation matching a list of keywords associated with the particular topic; using, by the processor, a machine learning-based model to identify one or more context characteristics of the conversations in the identified subset by learning over time one or more new keywords associated with the particular topic but not included in the list of keywords associated with the particular topic; updating, by the processor, the subset of conversations by adding at least one of the conversations to the subset based on the at least one conversation having at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model; and providing, by the processor, data indicative of the updated subset of conversations to a user interface for review by the primary user, wherein the data indicative of the updated subset of conversations comprises a timeline of the conversations in the subset.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model comprises a particular person associated with one or more of the conversations in the subset.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the one or more new keywords learned by the machine learning-based model are present in the subset of conversations.
4. The method as in claim 3, further comprising: updating, by the processor, the list of keywords associated with the particular topic to include the learned one or more new keywords.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein the audio data is captured from a videoconference.
6. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving the list of keywords associated with the particular topic from the particular user via the user interface.
7. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: capturing the data indicative of the plurality of conversations involving the primary user by comparing one or more locations of the primary user to a set of locations at which audio capture is authorized.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein identifying the subset of conversations that are regarding a particular topic comprises: extracting, by the processor and from the received data associated with a particular one of the plurality of conversations, one or more keywords in the particular conversation; and deleting, by the processor, the received data associated with the particular conversation, after extracting the one or more keywords from the received data associated with the particular conversation.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed configured to: receive audio data captured by one or more audio capture devices in the network, the audio data comprising data indicative of a plurality of conversations involving a primary user; identify a subset of the plurality of conversations that are regarding a particular topic, wherein the processor adds a conversation to the subset based on a match between one or more keywords in the conversation matching a list of keywords associated with the particular topic; use a machine learning-based model to identify one or more context characteristics of the conversations in the identified subset by learning over time one or more new keywords associated with the particular topic but not included in the list of keywords associated with the particular topic; update the subset of conversations by adding at least one of the conversations to the subset based on the at least one conversation having at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model, wherein the data indicative of the updated subset of conversations comprises a timeline of the conversations in the subset; and provide data indicative of the updated subset of conversations to a user interface for review by the primary user, wherein the data indicative of the updated subset of conversations comprises a timeline of the conversations in the subset.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model comprises a particular person associated with one or more of the conversations in the subset.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the one or more new keywords learned by the machine learning-based model are present in the subset of conversations.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: update the list of keywords associated with the particular topic to include the learned one or more new keywords.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the audio data is captured from a videoconference.
14. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: receive the list of keywords associated with the particular topic from the particular user via the user interface.
15. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further configured to: capture the data indicative of the plurality of conversations involving the primary user by comparing one or more locations of the primary user to a set of locations at which audio capture is authorized.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus identifies the subset of conversations that are regarding a particular topic comprises: extracting, from the received data associated with a particular one of the plurality of conversations, one or more keywords in the particular conversation; and deleting the received data associated with the particular conversation, after extracting the one or more keywords from the received data associated with the particular conversation.
17. A method comprising: receiving, at a processor in a network, audio data captured by one or more audio capture devices in the network; capturing, by the processor and from the received audio data, data indicative of a plurality of conversations involving a primary user by comparing one or more locations of the primary user to a set of locations at which audio capture is authorized; identifying, by the processor, a subset of the plurality of conversations that are regarding a particular topic, wherein the processor adds a conversation to the subset based on a match between one or more keywords in the conversation matching a list of keywords associated with the particular topic; using, by the processor, a machine learning-based model to identify one or more context characteristics of the conversations in the identified subset by learning over time one or more new keywords associated with the particular topic but not included in the list of keywords associated with the particular topic; updating, by the processor, the subset of conversations by adding at least one of the conversations to the subset based on the at least one conversation having at least one context characteristic identified by the machine learning-based model; and providing, by the processor, data indicative of the updated subset of conversations to a user interface for review by the primary user.
</claims>
</document>
