<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F17/28,G06F40/35,G06F40/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SARIKAYA, RUHI
ROCHETTE, ALEXANDRE
KIM, YOUNG-BUM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58016803
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Tool for facilitating the development of new language understanding scenarios
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented technique is described for facilitating the creation of a language understanding (LU) component for use with an application. The technique allows a developer to select a subset of parameters from a larger set of parameters. The subset of parameters pertains to a LU scenario to be handled by the application. The larger set of parameters pertains to a plurality of LU scenarios handled by an already-existing generic LU model. The technique creates a constrained LU component that is based on the subset of parameters in conjunction with the generic LU model. At runtime, the constrained LU component interprets input language items using the generic LU model in a manner that is constrained by the subset of parameters that have been selected, to provide an output result. The technique also allows the developer to create new rules and/or supplemental models.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more hardware processor devices; and one or more computer-readable storage media storing machine-readable instructions which, when executed by the one or more hardware processor devices, cause the one or more hardware processor devices to: access a language understanding model having a plurality of classifiers configured to output parameters reflecting results of classification operations performed by the classifiers for a plurality of language understanding scenarios; receive input information specifying a subset of specific parameters selected from among the parameters output by the language understanding model, the subset of specific parameters pertaining to a particular language understanding scenario to be handled by a particular application; store customization logic identifying the subset of specific parameters in a data store; and provide a constrained language understanding component based at least on the language understanding model, the constrained language understanding component being configured to perform interpretation of input language items based at least on the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic, wherein the constrained language understanding component reuses a subset of classifiers of the language understanding model corresponding to the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by the one or more hardware processor devices, cause the one or more hardware processor devices to: select the subset of classifiers based at least on the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the subset of classifiers output the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine-readable instructions, when executed by the one or more hardware processor devices, cause the one or more hardware processor devices to: execute a development tool that is configured to apply the customization logic to the language understanding model and output the constrained language understanding component.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the language understanding model is trained based at least on a generic set of training examples to recognize various input language items associated with the plurality of language understanding scenarios, including at least one language understanding scenario other than the particular language understanding scenario to be handled by the particular application.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the plurality of classifiers of the language understanding model comprise a plurality of binary classifiers, and the subset of classifiers comprises individual binary classifiers selected from the plurality of binary classifiers of the language understanding model.
7. A method implemented by one or more computing devices, the method comprising: accessing a language understanding model having a plurality of classifiers configured to output parameters reflecting results of classification operations performed by the classifiers, the plurality of classifiers pertaining to a plurality of language understanding scenarios; receiving input information specifying a subset of specific parameters selected from among the parameters output by the language understanding model, the subset of specific parameters pertaining to a particular language understanding scenario; storing customization logic identifying the subset of specific parameters in a data store; and providing a constrained language understanding component based at least on the customization logic and the language understanding model, the constrained language understanding component being configured to perform interpretation of input language items for the particular language understanding scenario, wherein providing the constrained language understanding component comprises selectively reusing a subset of classifiers of the language understanding model in the constrained language understanding component, the subset of classifiers corresponding to the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the selectively reusing comprises: deactivating one or more other classifiers of the language understanding model.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the parameters output by the language understanding model comprise a plurality of intents pertaining to the plurality of language understanding scenarios, and the subset of specific parameters comprises a subset of intents pertaining to the particular language understanding scenario.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the language understanding model comprises a neural network model.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the parameters output by the language understanding model comprise a plurality of tags pertaining to the plurality of language understanding scenarios, and the subset of specific parameters comprises a subset of tags pertaining to the particular language understanding scenario.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the language understanding model comprises a Conditional Random Field model.
13. A computer-readable storage medium storing computer-readable instructions which, when executed by one or more processor devices, cause the one or more processor devices to perform acts comprising: accessing a language understanding model having a plurality of classifiers configured to output parameters reflecting results of classification operations performed by the classifiers; receiving input information specifying a subset of specific parameters selected from among the parameters output by the language understanding model, the subset of specific parameters pertaining to a language understanding scenario to be handled by an application; storing customization logic identifying the subset of specific parameters in a data store; and based at least on the customization logic, customizing the language understanding model to obtain a constrained language understanding component that is configured to perform interpretation of input language items, wherein the customizing comprises selectively reusing a subset of classifiers of the language understanding model in the constrained language understanding component, the subset of classifiers corresponding to the subset of specific parameters identified by the customization logic.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the acts further comprising: presenting a user interface that conveys multiple parameters output by the language understanding model; and receiving the input information via the user interface.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the multiple parameters conveyed by the user interface comprise multiple intents, and the input information specifies at least one of the multiple intents.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the multiple parameters conveyed by the user interface comprise multiple tags, and the input information specifies at least one of the multiple tags.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, the acts further comprising: receiving one or more example linguistic items via the user interface; identifying a set of candidate parameters that are output by the language understanding model based at least on the one or more example linguistic items; and outputting the set of candidate parameters on the user interface, wherein the input information selects, from set of candidate parameters on the user interface, at least one parameter of the subset of specific parameters.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the selectively reusing further comprises: deactivating certain classifiers of the language understanding model that output other parameters.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the acts further comprising: receiving a particular keyword via a user interface; identifying particular parameters output by the language understanding model that match the particular keyword; and outputting the particular parameters that match the particular keyword on the user interface, wherein the input information selects, from the particular parameters on the user interface, at least one parameter of the subset of specific parameters.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, the acts further comprising: receiving a particular intent via a user interface; identifying particular slot parameters of the language understanding model that correspond to the particular intent; and outputting the particular slot parameters that correspond to the particular intent on the user interface, wherein the input information selects, from the particular slot parameters on the user interface, at least one parameter of the subset of specific parameters.
</claims>
</document>
