<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/11,A61B5/16,G06F19/00,G16H10/60,G16H20/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AIC INNOVATIONS GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANINA, ADAM
GLASNER, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61191887
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for determining health status
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for monitoring the state of an individual. The method includes providing a stimulus to the individual, measuring a response to the provided stimulus, comparing the measured response to an expected response, and diagnosing one or more aspects of disease in accordance with the result of the comparison between the measured response and the expected response. The stimulus may be a predetermined test sequence, such as a visually displayed predetermined sequence of images, or may include observation of the physical response of the individual while performing one or more predetermined activities. Stored images or video of the individual responding to one or more test sequences may be stored in a lossy or lossless state, and thus security and de-identification may be provided to stored data. This stored data may also be de-identified in a manner to allow for the answering of the greatest number of future questions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for monitoring the state of an individual, the method comprising: providing a visual stimulus to the individual; obtaining a video record of the individual performing a physical response to the provided visual stimulus; de-identifying the obtained video record, wherein de-identifying the obtained video record comprises extracting, from a first image of the obtained video record, a plurality of points that are representative of a portion of the first image, identifying, from the plurality of points, a subset of points that allows for future analysis of the physical response, and storing the subset of points without storing the entire plurality of points, to inhibit re-identification of the individual in the obtained video record; measuring the physical response to the provided visual stimulus as recorded by the stored subset of points; comparing the measured physical response to an expected physical response to provide a comparison result; and diagnosing one or more aspects of disease based on the comparison result.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the visual stimulus is a predetermined visual test sequence.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the visual stimulus is a visual sequence for instructing the individual to perform a predetermined action.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the predetermined action comprises ingesting a medication.
5. The method of claim 1, comprising storing non-visual information associated with the obtained video record and selected from one or more sensor outputs.
6. The method of claim 1, comprising: identifying a subset of sensors of a plurality of sensors applicable to recognize a particular disease; recording a second physical response to the provided visual stimulus by the subset of sensors; and analyzing the recorded second physical response to confirm a presence or absence of the particular disease.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the measuring of the response to the provided visual stimulus comprises: recording a second physical response to the provided visual stimulus by a plurality of sensors; and analyzing the recorded second physical response to determine a presence or absence of one or more possible recognized diseases.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the first image is a first portion, and wherein de-identifying the obtained video record comprises: blurring a second portion of the first image, the second portion being different from the first portion; and storing the blurred second portion in association with the stored subset of points.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the subset of points provides a lower resolution of visual information about the portion of the first image compared to a resolution of the first image.
10. The method of claim 1, comprising displaying, to a user, an interface by which the user is able to modify a number of points to be included in the subset of points.
11. A system for monitoring the state of an individual, comprising: a computing device including a display for displaying information to an individual, an image capture device for capturing one or more video images of the individual, a processor configured to determine one or more video sequences to be displayed to the individual via the display, and to process one or more captured video images captured via the image capture device, and a storage memory for storing a video record of the individual performing a physical response to a provided visual stimulus, wherein the processor is configured to determine the visual stimulus to be provided to the individual via the display, wherein the display of the computing device is configured to display the visual stimulus to the individual, wherein the image capture device is configured to capture the one or more video images of the individual performing one or more actions in response to the displayed visual stimulus, and wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising de-identifying a first video image of the one or more video images by extracting, from the first video image, a plurality of points that are representative of a portion of the first video image, identifying, from the plurality of points, a subset of points that allows for future analysis of the one or more actions in response to the displayed visual stimulus, and storing the subset of points without storing the entire plurality of points, to inhibit re-identification of the individual in the one or more video images, measuring the physical response to the displayed visual stimulus as recorded in the stored subset of points, comparing the measured physical response to an expected physical response, and diagnosing one or more aspects of disease based on a result of the comparison between the measured physical response and the expected physical response.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the displayed visual stimulus is a predetermined visual test sequence.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the displayed visual stimulus is a visual sequence for instructing the individual to perform a predetermined action.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the predetermined action comprises ingesting a medication.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations comprise storing non-visual information associated with the one or more video images and selected from one or more sensor outputs of one or more sensors included in the system.
16. The system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of sensors applicable to recognize a particular disease, wherein the operations comprise measuring the response by recording a response to the provided visual stimulus by the plurality of sensors applicable to recognize the particular disease, and analyzing the recorded response to confirm presence or absence of the particular disease.
17. The system of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of sensors, wherein the measuring of the physical response comprises: measuring the physical response by recording a response to the provided visual stimulus by the plurality of sensors, and analyzing the recorded response to determine one or more possible recognized diseases.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more video images comprise a plurality of video images, and wherein the operations comprise categorizing each of a plurality of frames of the plurality of video images along at least one dimension other than a time dimension, and analyzing the plurality of frames to determine one or more characteristics thereof.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the portion of the first video image is a first portion, and wherein the operations further comprise: blurring a second portion of the first video image, the second portion being different from the first portion; and storing the blurred second portion in association with the stored subset of points.
</claims>
</document>
