<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/26,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0488,G06T11/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TABLEAU SOFTWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEWART, ROBIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68614797
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Interactive data visualization user interface with multiple interaction profiles
</title>

<abstract>
A user selects a dataset and a first interaction profile. There are multiple interaction profiles, each specifying a corresponding user interface and a corresponding decision tree for forming data visualizations according to user-selected data fields. A first data visualization user interface is displayed corresponding to the first interaction profile. Using the first data visualization user interface, the user selects data fields from the dataset and uses them to specify data visualization characteristics. The method displays a first data visualization according to the user-selected data fields and the decision tree for the first interaction profile. When the user selects a second interaction profile, the method displays a second data visualization according to the second interaction profile. The second data visualization uses at least some of the user-selected data fields. The second data visualization is displayed according to the specified data visualization characteristics and the decision tree for the second interaction profile.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of analyzing data, comprising: at a computing device having one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs configured for execution by the one or more processors: receiving user selection of a dataset and user selection of a first interaction profile of a plurality of interaction profiles, wherein each interaction profile specifies (i) a corresponding user interface and (ii) a corresponding decision tree for forming data visualizations according to user-selected data fields from the dataset; displaying a first data visualization user interface corresponding to the first interaction profile; receiving user interaction with the first data visualization user interface to (i) select two or more data fields from the dataset and (ii) use the two or more selected data fields to specify data visualization characteristics; in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the first interaction profile and (ii) the user-selected data fields, displaying a first data visualization in the first data visualization user interface, including visual marks depicting data from the dataset; receiving user selection of a second interaction profile distinct from the first interaction profile; and in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: displaying a second data visualization user interface corresponding to the second interaction profile; and displaying a second data visualization using at least a subset of the user-selected data fields, wherein the second data visualization is displayed in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the second interaction profile and (ii) the specified data visualization characteristics.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include color encoding of the visual marks.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include size encoding of the visual marks.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include specifying which aggregation function is used for summarizing data values for data fields that are aggregated.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the specified aggregation function is selected from the group consisting of SUM, AVERAGE, MIN, MAX, MEDIAN, and QUANTILE.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first interaction profile specifies category analytics and the second interaction profile specifies time analytics.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising, in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: automatically selecting one or more additional data fields from the dataset, wherein the one or more additional data fields are not included in the user-selected data fields; wherein displaying the second data visualization uses the one or more additional data fields.
8. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; memory; and one or more programs stored in the memory and configured for execution by the one or more processors, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: receiving user selection of a dataset and user selection of a first interaction profile of a plurality of interaction profiles, wherein each interaction profile specifies (i) a corresponding user interface and (ii) a corresponding decision tree for forming data visualizations according to user-selected data fields from the dataset; displaying a first data visualization user interface corresponding to the first interaction profile; receiving user interaction with the first data visualization user interface to (i) select two or more data fields from the dataset and (ii) use the two or more selected data fields to specify data visualization characteristics; in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the first interaction profile and (ii) the user-selected data fields, displaying a first data visualization in the first data visualization user interface, including visual marks depicting data from the dataset; receiving user selection of a second interaction profile distinct from the first interaction profile; and in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: displaying a second data visualization user interface corresponding to the second interaction profile; and displaying a second data visualization using at least a subset of the user-selected data fields, wherein the second data visualization is displayed in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the second interaction profile and (ii) the specified data visualization characteristics.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include color encoding of the visual marks.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include size encoding of the visual marks.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include specifying which aggregation function is used for summarizing data values for data fields that are aggregated.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the specified aggregation function is selected from the group consisting of SUM, AVERAGE, MIN, MAX, MEDIAN, and QUANTILE.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the first interaction profile specifies category analytics and the second interaction profile specifies time analytics.
14. The computer system of claim 8, further comprising, in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: automatically selecting one or more additional data fields from the dataset, wherein the one or more additional fields are not included in the user-selected data fields; wherein displaying the second data visualization uses the one or more additional data fields.
15. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by one or more processors of a computer system, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: receiving user selection of a dataset and user selection of a first interaction profile of a plurality of interaction profiles, wherein each interaction profile specifies (i) a corresponding user interface and (ii) a corresponding decision tree for forming data visualizations according to user-selected data fields from the dataset; displaying a first data visualization user interface corresponding to the first interaction profile; receiving user interaction with the first data visualization user interface to (i) select two or more data fields from the dataset and (ii) use the two or more selected data fields to specify data visualization characteristics; in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the first interaction profile and (ii) the user-selected data fields, displaying a first data visualization in the first data visualization user interface, including visual marks depicting data from the dataset; receiving user selection of a second interaction profile distinct from the first interaction profile; and in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: displaying a second data visualization user interface corresponding to the second interaction profile; and displaying a second data visualization using at least a subset of the user-selected data fields, wherein the second data visualization is displayed in accordance with (i) the decision tree corresponding to the second interaction profile and (ii) the specified data visualization characteristics.
16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include color encoding of the visual marks.
17. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include size encoding of the visual marks.
18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the specified data visualization characteristics include specifying which aggregation function is used for summarizing data values for data fields that are aggregated, and wherein the specified aggregation function is selected from the group consisting of SUM, AVERAGE, MIN, MAX, MEDIAN, and QUANTILE.
19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first interaction profile specifies category analytics and the second interaction profile specifies time analytics.
20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, further comprising, in response to the user selection of the second interaction profile: automatically selecting one or more additional data fields from the dataset, wherein the one or more additional fields are not included in the user-selected data fields; wherein displaying the second data visualization uses the one or more additional data fields.
</claims>
</document>
