<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F17/11,G06F7/02,G06F9/451,G06N20/00,G06Q10/08,G16H40/67,G16H70/40
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EXPRESS SCRIPTS STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT
Express Scripts Strategie Development, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEHMUTH, CHRISTOPHER G.
MARKSON, CHRISTOPHER R.
SHAH, PRITESH J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74180538
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for user interface adaptation for per-user metrics
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system for dynamic adaptation of a user interface according to data store mining includes a data store configured to index event data of a plurality of events. A data analyst device is configured to render the user interface to a data analyst and transmit a message that identifies a selected identifier of the plurality of identifiers. A data processing circuit is configured to train a machine learning model based on event data stored by the data store for a first set of identifiers from within a predetermined epoch. An interface circuit determines an interface metric for the selected identifier based on the determined output of the selected identifier and transmits the interface metric to the data analyst device. The data analyst device is configured to, in response to the interface metric from the interface circuit, selectively perform a modification or removal of a second user interface element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system for dynamic adaptation of a user interface according to data store mining, the computer system comprising: a data store configured to index event data of a plurality of events, wherein each event of the plurality of events corresponds to a physical object being supplied to a user identified by an identifier on behalf of a first entity, wherein the data store is configured to store descriptive data for each of a plurality of identifiers; a data analyst device configured to render the user interface to a data analyst and to transmit a message that identifies a selected identifier of the plurality of identifiers, wherein the user interface includes a first user interface element and a second user interface element; a data processing circuit configured to: identify a first set of identifiers from the plurality of identifiers based on commonality among the descriptive data stored by the data store across the first set of identifiers; and train a machine learning model for the first set of identifiers based on event data stored by the data store for the first set of identifiers from within a predetermined epoch, wherein the machine learning model is trained using parallel processing of records from the data store, wherein the parallel processing includes assigning analysis of the indexed event data of each of a subset of the first set of identifiers to respective processor threads for parallel execution on processing hardware; and an interface circuit configured to, in response to receiving the message from the data analyst device: determine an output of the selected identifier using the machine learning model from the data processing circuit, wherein the output of the selected identifier represents an amount of resources expected to be used by the selected identifier for a second epoch subsequent to the predetermined epoch; determine an interface metric for the selected identifier based on the determined output of the selected identifier; and transmit the interface metric to the data analyst device, wherein the data analyst device is configured to, in response to the interface metric from the interface circuit, selectively perform at least one of modification and removal of the second user interface element.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the interface circuit is configured to determine the interface metric for the selected identifier further based on: a retention value, wherein the retention value indicates a likelihood of the selected identifier being associated with the first entity for the second epoch; and a population retention value, wherein the population retention value indicates a likelihood of a population of identifiers encompassing the selected identifier being associated with the first entity for the second epoch.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein an operator of the data analyst device is one of (i) a user identified by the selected identifier, (ii) an analyst for the first entity, and (iii) a support representative of the first entity.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the amount of resources expected to be used by the selected identifier includes at least one of: (i) an expected number of calls received from the selected identifier, (ii) an expected number of drug orders mailed to the selected identifier; and (iii) an expected measure of drugs dispensed to the selected identifier.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the interface circuit is configured to, in response to receiving the message from the data analyst device: determine an intake of the selected identifier using a machine learning model from the data processing circuit, wherein the intake of the selected identifier represents an amount of resources expected to be received by the first entity from the selected identifier for the second epoch; and determine the interface metric for the selected identifier based on the determined output of the selected identifier and the determined intake of the selected identifier.
6. The system of claim 5 wherein the amount of resources expected to be received from the selected identifier is a difference, for each event of the selected identifier, between an amount received for the event and an amount expended for the event.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the data analyst device includes a persona determination module configured to: transmit the message to the interface circuit; receive the interface metric of the selected identifier from the interface circuit; and identify a corresponding persona of the selected identifier based on the received interface metric of the selected identifier.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the data analyst device includes a user interface adaptation module configured to transform the user interface of the data analyst device according to the corresponding persona.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein the corresponding persona is selected from a set of personas including at least one of: (i) a set of user personas, (ii) a set of analyst personas; and (iii) a set of support personas.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein the selected identifier is a population of identifiers encompassing the selected identifier.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein descriptive data for each of the plurality of identifiers includes at least one of: (i) name, (ii) support call logs, (iii) support chat logs, and (iv) selected identifier subscription duration.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein descriptive data for each of the plurality of identifiers includes population of identifiers encompassing the selected identifier subscription duration.
13. The system of claim 1 wherein the event data includes at least one of, for each event: (i) a respective intake and (ii) a respective output.
14. The system of claim 1 wherein the interface circuit includes a retention module configured to: identify a population of identifiers encompassing the selected identifier; determine a previous retention value of the selected identifier based on a duration of presence of the selected identifier within the identified population during the predetermined epoch; and determine a previous population retention value of the identified population based on a duration of presence of the identified population as a client of the first entity during the predetermined epoch.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein: the interface circuit calculates the interface metric according to an equation; the equation is: PUMk is the interface metric of the selected identifier; Ak is a starting retention age of the selected identifier; n is a length of the second epoch in years; Gi is an estimate of a retention value of the selected identifier at year i of the second epoch; Mk is an estimated intake of the selected identifier for the second epoch; Ck is the determined output of the selected identifier; r is an annual population retention value; and d is a predetermined discount rate.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein: the length of the second epoch in years is an integer greater than or equal to one; the estimate of the retention value is less than or equal to zero; the annual population retention value is less than or equal to one; and the predetermined discount rate is greater than or equal to zero and less than one.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein the second user interface element indicates a shipping option of a drug.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the at least one of modification and removal of the second user interface element includes, based on the interface metric, updating the shipping option of the drug to an expedited shipping option.
</claims>
</document>
