<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/34,G06F16/35,G06F16/901,G06F16/906,G06F21/45,G06F21/57,G06N20/00,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAILPOINT TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HO, JOSTINE FEI
BADAWY, MOHAMED M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67069673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for peer group detection, visualization and analysis in identity management artificial intelligence systems using cluster based analysis of network identity graphs
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for graph based artificial intelligence systems for identity management systems are disclosed. Embodiments of the identity management systems disclosed herein may utilize a network graph approach to peer grouping of identities of distributed networked enterprise computing environment. Specifically, in certain embodiments, data on the identities and the respective entitlements assigned to each identity as utilized in an enterprise computer environment may be obtained by an identity management system. A network identity graph may be constructed using the identity and entitlement data. The identity graph can then be clustered into peer groups of identities. The peer groups of identities may be used by the identity management system and users thereof in risk assessment or other identity management tasks.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An identity management system, comprising: a memory; a processor; a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium including computer instructions for: evaluating identity management data associated with a distributed enterprise computing environment to determine a set of identities and a set of entitlements associated with the set of identities, the set of identities and the set of entitlements utilized in identity management in association with the distributed enterprise computing environment; generating a first identity graph from the identity management data by: creating a node of the first identity graph for each of the determined set of identities, for each first identity and second identity that share at least one entitlement of the set of entitlements, creating an edge of the first identity graph between a first node representing the first identity and a second node of the identity graph representing the second identity, and generating a weight for each edge of the first identity graph between each first node and second node based on the at least one entitlement shared between the first identity represented by the first node and the second identity represented by the second node; pruning the set of edges of the first identity graph to generate a second identity graph; storing the second identity graph; clustering the set of identities or set of entitlements represented by the second identity graph into a set of peer groups based on the nodes of the second identity graph representing the set of identities and the edges of the second identity graph; and storing the set of peer groups where each peer group comprises an identification of the set of identities or set of entitlements included in that peer group.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of identities or set of entitlements are a filtered population specified in terms of a filtering attribute.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the filtering attribute includes geographic location, role or unit.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pruning is based on the weight generated for each edge of the first identity graph between each first node and second node.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the weight is a similarity weight and the pruning of the set of edges of the first identity graph to generate a second identity graph is done based on a pruning threshold associated with the similarity weight.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein a histogram of similarity weights may be constructed and the similarity weight corresponding to a gap in the similarity weights of the histogram may be chosen as the pruning threshold.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the set of peer groups is a maximal clique.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of peer groups are optimized utilizing a peer group assessment metric.
9. The system of claim 8, further comprising alerting a user based on an alert threshold associated with the peer group assessment metric.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein clustering the second identity graph is accomplished using community-detection.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the peer groups resulting from the community-detection are filtered according to an identity attribute.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the community-detection comprises Louvain, Fast-greedy, Label Propagation or Stochastic Block Modeling.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the clustering is accomplished using unsupervised machine learning.
14. An method, comprising: evaluating identity management data associated with a distributed enterprise computing environment to determine a set of identities and a set of entitlements associated with the set of identities, the set of identities and the set of entitlements utilized in identity management in association with the distributed enterprise computing environment; generating a first identity graph from the identity management data by: creating a node of the first identity graph for each of the determined set of identities, for each first identity and second identity that share at least one entitlement of the set of entitlements, creating an edge of the first identity graph between a first node representing the first identity and a second node of the identity graph representing the second identity, and generating a weight for each edge of the first identity graph between each first node and second node based on the at least one entitlement shared between the first identity represented by the first node and the second identity represented by the second node; pruning the set of edges of the first identity graph to generate a second identity graph; storing the second identity graph; clustering the set of identities or set of entitlements represented by the second identity graph into a set of peer groups based on the nodes of the second identity graph representing the set of identities and the edges of the second identity graph; and storing the set of peer groups where each peer group comprises an identification of the set of identities or set of entitlements included in that peer group.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the set of identities or set of entitlements are a filtered population specified in terms of a filtering attribute.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the filtering attribute includes geographic location, role or unit.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the pruning is based on the weight generated for each edge of the first identity graph between each first node and second node.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the weight is a similarity weight and the pruning of the set of edges of the first identity graph to generate a second identity graph is done based on a pruning threshold associated with the similarity weight.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein a histogram of similarity weights may be constructed and the similarity weight corresponding to a gap in the similarity weights of the histogram may be chosen as the pruning threshold.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein at least one of the set of peer groups is a maximal clique.
21. The method of claim 14, wherein the set of peer groups are optimized utilizing a peer group assessment metric.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising alerting a user based on an alert threshold associated with the peer group assessment metric.
23. The method of claim 14, wherein clustering the second identity graph is accomplished using community-detection.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the peer groups resulting from the community-detection are filtered according to an identity attribute.
25. The method of claim 23, wherein the community-detection comprises Louvain, Fast-greedy, Label Propagation or Stochastic Block Modeling.
26. The method of claim 14, wherein the clustering is accomplished using unsupervised machine learning.
</claims>
</document>
