<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/10,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHAD, SYED ABDUL
KUMAR, PRANJAL
PADMANABHAN, AMAL
GANGOLI, VINAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63108640
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Application-aware intrusion detection system
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, activity of a plurality of applications in a computer network is monitored, and a plurality of individual business transactions occurring within the plurality of applications may be identified. Additionally network traffic details associated with each particular business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions may be determined. In response to detecting a network-based threat on a particular network flow within the computer network, the techniques herein may correlate the particular network flow to a corresponding business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions based on the associated network traffic details of the corresponding business transaction. Accordingly, threat mitigation may be initiated specific to the corresponding business transaction in response to the detected network-based threat being correlated to the corresponding business transaction.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a server, monitored activity of a plurality of applications in a computer network; identifying, by the server, a plurality of individual business transactions occurring within the plurality of applications; managing, by the server, a plurality of application agents that add business transaction identifiers to application traffic in the computer network; determining, by the server, network traffic details associated with each particular business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions; detecting, by the server, a network-based threat on a particular network flow within the computer network; upon detecting a network-based threat, examining, by the server, the particular network flow to determine a presence of a particular business transaction identifier of the added business transaction identifiers in the particular network flow; when the particular network flow includes the particular business transaction identifier: correlating, by the server, the particular network flow to a corresponding business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions based on the business transaction identifier, tagging, by the server, an application call chain associated with the corresponding business transaction, and initiating, by the server, threat mitigation specific to the corresponding business transaction based on the tagging; and when the particular network flow does not include the particular business transaction identifier: correlating, by the server, the particular network flow to one or more nodes on which the plurality of applications communicate based on the monitored activity of the plurality of applications, and initiating, by the server, threat mitigation specific to the one or more nodes.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein threat mitigation is selected from a group consisting of: notifying an application user; notifying an application administrator; notifying an administrator of the server; and highlighting the network-based threat in a graphical user interface.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein threat mitigation is selected from a group consisting of: blocking the network-based threat; rate limiting network traffic; closing specific ports; shutting down specific servers; adding source addresses to a blacklist; initiating one or more health rules; and changing one or more health rules.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein threat mitigation specific to the corresponding business transaction affects more of the plurality of individual business transactions than just the corresponding business transaction.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein detecting the network-based threat comprises: receiving an indication of the network-based threat at the server from an external intrusion detection system.
6. The method as in claim 1, wherein detecting the network-based threat comprises: locally detecting the network-based threat at an intrusion detection system of the server.
7. The method as in claim 6, wherein locally detecting the network-based threat is based on one or more of: rules-based detection, detected anomalies, trending behavior, access control lists (ACLs), and blacklists.
8. The method as in claim 1, wherein: determining network traffic details comprises managing a plurality of network visibility agents that monitor traffic within computer network to locate the business transaction identifiers and that determine network traffic details based on the monitored traffic with located business transaction identifiers.
9. The method as in claim 1, wherein correlating the particular network flow to the corresponding business transaction comprises: mapping the corresponding business transaction to the particular network flow based on a source address/port and destination address/port tuple of the corresponding business transaction matching a source address/port and destination address/port tuple of the particular network flow.
10. The method as in claim 1, wherein: correlating the particular network flow to the corresponding business transaction comprises correlating the particular network flow to a plurality of corresponding business transactions of the plurality of individual business transactions based on the associated network traffic details of the plurality of corresponding business transactions each being associated with the same particular network flow; and initiating threat mitigation comprises initiating threat mitigation specific to the plurality of corresponding business transactions.
11. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: quantifying an impact of the network-based threat on the corresponding business transaction.
12. The method as in claim 11, wherein quantifying the impact comprises: comparing first metrics from a first plurality of business transactions occurring within a first time period corresponding to the network-based threat to second metrics from a second plurality of business transactions occurring within a second time period not corresponding to the network-based threat; and highlighting differences between the first metrics and the second metrics.
13. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces configured to communicate in a computer network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and adapted to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed operable to: determine monitored activity of a plurality of applications in a computer network; identify a plurality of individual business transactions occurring within the plurality of applications; manage a plurality of application agents that add business transaction identifiers to application traffic in the computer network; determine network traffic details associated with each particular business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions; detect a network-based threat on a particular network flow within the computer network; upon detecting the network-based threat, examine the particular network flow to determine a presence of a particular business transaction identifier of the added business transaction identifiers in the particular network flow; when the particular network flow includes the particular business transaction identifier: correlate the particular network flow to a corresponding business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions based on the business transaction identifier, tag an application call chain associated with the corresponding business transaction, and initiate threat mitigation specific to the corresponding business transaction based on the tagging; and when the particular network flow does not include the particular business transaction identifier: correlate the particular network flow to one or more nodes on which the plurality of applications communicate based on the monitored activity of the plurality of applications, and initiate threat mitigation specific to the one or more nodes.
14. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein threat mitigation is selected from a group consisting of: notifying an application user; notifying an application administrator; notifying an administrator of the apparatus; highlighting the network-based threat in a graphical user interface; blocking the network-based threat; rate limiting network traffic; closing specific ports; shutting down specific servers; adding source addresses to a blacklist; initiating one or more health rules; and changing one or more health rules.
15. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the process when executed to detect the network-based threat is further operable to: receive an indication of the network-based threat from an external intrusion detection system.
16. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the process when executed to correlate the particular network flow to the corresponding business transaction is further operable to: map the corresponding business transaction to the particular network flow based on a source address/port and destination address/port tuple of the corresponding business transaction matching a source address/port and destination address/port tuple of the particular network flow.
17. The apparatus as in claim 13, wherein the process when executed is further operable to: quantify an impact of the network-based threat on the corresponding business transaction.
18. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing program instructions that cause a computer to execute a process comprising: determining monitored activity of a plurality of applications in a computer network; identifying a plurality of individual business transactions occurring within the plurality of applications; managing a plurality of application agents that add business transaction identifiers to application traffic in the computer network; determining network traffic details associated with each particular business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions; detecting a network-based threat on a particular network flow within the computer network; upon detected the network based-threat, examining the particular network flow to determine a presence of a particular business transaction identifier of the added business transaction identifiers in the particular network flow; when the particular network flow includes the particular business transaction identifier: correlating the particular network flow to a corresponding business transaction of the plurality of individual business transactions based on the business transaction identifier, tagging, by the server, an application call chain associated with the corresponding business transaction, and initiating threat mitigation specific to the corresponding business transaction based on the tagging; and when the particular network flow does not include the particular business transaction identifier: correlating the particular network flow to one or more nodes on which the plurality of applications communicate based on the monitored activity of the plurality of applications, and initiating threat mitigation specific to the one or more nodes.
</claims>
</document>
