<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, ERIC W.
FERRUCCI, DAVID A.
CHU-CARROLL, JENNIFER
LALLY, ADAM P.
MURDOCK, JAMES, W.
PRAGER, JOHN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45871687
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Providing answers to questions using logical synthesis of candidate answers
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program product for generating answers to questions. In one embodiment, the method comprises receiving an input query, decomposing the input query into a plurality of different subqueries, and conducting a search in one or more data sources to identify at least one candidate answer to each of the subqueries. A ranking function is applied to each of the candidate answers to determine a ranking for each of these candidate answers; and for each of the subqueries, one of the candidate answers to the subquery is selected based on this ranking. A logical synthesis component is applied to synthesize a candidate answer for the input query from the selected the candidate answers to the subqueries. In one embodiment, the procedure applied by the logical synthesis component to synthesize the candidate answer for the input query is determined from the input query.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating an answer to a question, comprising: receiving an input query; analyzing the input query to identify a defined type of information to answer the input query, to identify a specified type of data to obtain an answer to the input query, and to determine a defined logical syntheses procedure to process data items of the specified type of data to obtain the answer of the defined type to the input query; processing the input query to determine data items of the specified type to determine the answer to the input query, including formulating a plurality of subqueries for the input query, wherein each of the subqueries has an answer, and the answers of the subqueries are the data items of the specified type for determining an answer to the input query; conducting a search in one or more data sources to identify at least one candidate answer to each of the subqueries; for each of the subqueries, selecting one of the identified candidate answers to the subquery, wherein each of the selected candidate answers is one of the data items of the specified type; and using said determined logical syntheses procedure to process the selected ones of the candidate answers to the subqueries to determine the answer to the input query.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein said specified type of data comprises dates of events.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein: the answer to each of the subqueries is a respective one date; and the determined procedure for using the selected ones of the candidate answers of the subqueries to determine the answer to the input query includes determining a length of time between said respective dates.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein said defined type of information comprises names of geographical locations.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein said defined type of information comprises names of locations.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the using said determined procedure includes applying the logical synthesis procedure for synthesizing the answer for the input query from the selected candidate answers to the subqueries.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the analyzing the input query includes using natural language processing, when the input query is analyzed, to determine the logical synthesis procedure for synthesizing the candidate answer for the input query from the selected candidate answers to the subqueries.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the using the logical synthesis procedure includes using the logical synthesis procedure to form an intersection of the selected candidate answers to synthesize the answer for the input query.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein using said determined procedure to use the selected ones of the candidate answers to determine the answer to the input query includes using the logical synthesis procedure to form a union of the selected candidate answers to synthesize the answer for the input query.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the using said determined procedure to use the selected ones of the candidate answers to determine the answer to the input query includes using the logical synthesis procedure to combine text from the selected candidate answers to synthesize the answer for the input query.
11. A system for generating answers to questions, comprising: a computer device comprising at least one distinct software module, each distinct software module being embodied on a tangible computer-readable medium; a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and operative for: receiving an input query; analyzing the input query to identify a defined type of information to answer the input query, to identify a specified type of data to obtain an answer to the input query, and to determine a defined logical synthesis procedure to process data items of the specified type of data to obtain the answer of the defined type to the input query; processing the input query to determine data items of the specified type of date to determine the answer to the input query, including formulating a plurality of subqueries for the input query, wherein each of the subqueries has an answer, and the answers of the subqueries are the data items of the specified type of data for determining the answer to the input query; conducting a search in one or more data sources to identify at least one candidate answer to each of the subqueries; for each of the subqueries, selecting one of the identified candidate answers to the subquery, wherein each of the selected candidate answers is one of the data items of the specified type; and using said determined logical syntheses procedure to process the selected ones of the candidate answers to the subqueries to determine the answer to the input query.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the using said determined procedure includes applying a logical synthesis component for synthesizing the answer for the input query from the selected candidate answers to the subqueries.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the determining the procedure for using the selected ones of the candidate answers to the subqueries includes determining said procedure when processing the input query to formulate the plurality of subqueries.
14. The system according to claim 11, wherein the processing the input query to determine the plurality of subqueries includes using natural language processing to decompose the input query; and the determining the procedure for using the selected ones of the candidate answers includes using said natural language processing to determine said procedure.
15. The system according to claim 11, wherein the selecting one of the candidate answers for each of the subqueries include applying a ranking function to rank the candidate answers for each of the subqueries.
16. An article of manufacture, comprising: at least one tangible computer readable medium having computer readable program code logic to generate answers to questions, the computer readable program code logic, when executing, performing the following: receiving an input query; analyzing the input query to identify a defined type of information to answer the input query, to identify a specified type of data to obtain an answer t the input query, and to determine a defined logical syntheses procedure to process data items of the specified type of data to obtain the answer of the defined type to the input query; processing the input query to determine data items of the specified type of data to determine the answer to the input query, including formulating a plurality of subqueries for the input query, wherein each of the subqueries has an answer, and the answers of the subqueries are the data items of the specified type of data for determining the answer to the input query; conducting a search in one or more data sources to identify at least one candidate answer to each of the subqueries; for each of the subqueries, selecting one of the identified candidate answers to the subquery, wherein each of the selected candidate answers is one of the data items of the specified type; and using said determined logical syntheses procedure to process the selected ones of the candidate answers to the subqueries to determine the answer to the input query.
17. The article of manufacture according to claim 16, wherein the using said determined procedure includes applying a logical synthesis component for synthesizing the answer for the input query from the selected candidate answers to the subqueries.
18. The article of manufacture according to claim 16, wherein the determining the procedure for using the selected ones of the candidate answers includes determining said procedure when using the input query to determine the plurality of subqueries.
19. The article of manufacture according to claim 16, wherein: the processing the input query to formulate the plurality of subqueries includes using natural language processing to decompose the input query; and the determining the procedure for using the selected ones of the candidate answers includes using said natural language processing to determine said procedure.
20. The article of manufacture according to claim 16, wherein the selecting one of the candidate answers for each of the subqueries include applying a ranking function to rank the candidate answers for each of the subqueries.
</claims>
</document>
