<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N21/88,G01N33/00,G06F3/0488,G06K9/46,G06K9/60,G06T7/00,H04N5/225,H04N5/232,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRITESCAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
REYNAUD, DANIEL D.
REYNAUD, DANICA T. H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69405750
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Portable scanning device for ascertaining attributes of sample materials
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments include at least one system, method, and device for ascertaining attributes of sample material. A method includes enabling a scanning device to capture images of samples placed on an internal surface of the scanning device. The captured images can be communicated over a communications network to a service (e.g., cloud-based service) that can detect features in the captured images in accordance with artificial intelligence techniques to determine attributes of a sample material such as authenticity, purity, or quality. The attributes of the sample material can be certified and communicated for display on a computer, mobile device (e.g., phone, tablet) or scanning device or with interested third-parties.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system comprising: a portable scanning device including: a chamber configured as a controlled environment for capturing an image of a sample material contained in the chamber; an openable member configured to enable access to the chamber, wherein ambient light of an external environment is blocked from the chamber when the openable member is closed; an exterior surface configured to receive a handheld mobile device that includes a camera device; an opening through the exterior surface into the chamber to enable the camera device of the handheld mobile device to capture the image of the sample material when the handheld mobile device is disposed on the exterior surface such that the camera device is to face into the chamber; a shelf configured to stage the sample material at a distance from the opening thereby enabling the camera device to capture the image of the sample material at a resolution to detect physical properties of the sample material including a plurality of colors, sizes, shapes, or textures; a removable tray configured to position on the shelf, the removable tray including a container with a staging surface defining an area configured to stage the sample material for the image, and the area having a size such that a field-of-view of the camera device disposed on the exterior surface includes the area; and a white light source configured to illuminate the sample material disposed on the area such that the image is of the sample material illuminated by the white light.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a server configured to: process data of the image, wherein the data of the image is received over a network from the handheld mobile device; and determine the physical properties of the sample material based on the processed data of the image.
3. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a support structure that defines a first level of a plurality of levels for the shelf, wherein each level is at a predefined distance from the opening.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein a second level of the shelf is a surface of the chamber.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the white light source is a removable device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the shelf comprises: a marker that enables the mobile device to autofocus the camera device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the removable tray comprises: a marker that enables the handheld mobile device to automatically focus the camera device.
8. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a plurality of removable trays of different sizes, wherein each of the plurality of removable trays is configured to hold a different type of sample material.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the exterior surface comprises: a plurality of positioners configured to orient the handheld mobile device for capturing the image of the sample material with the camera device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein a positioner is adjustable to fit a plurality of handheld mobile devices of different sizes.
11. A method comprising: radiating light on a sample material disposed on a staging surface of a platform contained in an enclosed chamber of a portable scanning device, capturing an image of the sample material disposed on the staging surface of the platform contained in the enclosed chamber of the portable scanning device, wherein the image is captured by a camera device of a mobile device disposed on an exterior surface of the portable scanning device, wherein the platform has an aspect-ratio such that a field-of-view of the camera device disposed on the exterior surface includes the staging surface, and wherein the platform is at a distance from the camera device to provide a resolution of properties of the sample material; and ascertaining an attribute of the sample material based on the image, wherein the attribute includes authenticity, purity, or quality of the sample material.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the sample material is a biological material.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the sample material is a plant-based material, and the attribute of the plant-based material is determined in accordance with machine learning techniques.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein ascertaining the attribute of the sample material comprises: comparing the image to data of another image of the sample material to verify the attribute.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein ascertaining the attribute of the sample material comprises: comparing the image to data of a plurality of images of authenticated samples.
16. A portable scanning device comprising: a chamber configured as a controlled environment for capturing an image of a sample material contained in the chamber; an openable member configured to enable access to the chamber for receiving the sample material, wherein ambient light of an environment external to the chamber is blocked from the chamber when the openable member is closed; and an imaging device configured to capture the image of the sample material when disposed on a shelf contained in the chamber, the shelf being configured to stage the sample material at a distance from the imaging device thereby enabling the imaging device to capture the image of the sample material at a resolution to detect physical properties of the sample material including a plurality of colors, sizes, shapes, or textures of the sample material; and a light source configured to radiate light on the sample material disposed on the shelf such that the image is of the sample material exposed to the light.
17. The portable scanning device of claim 16 further comprising: a touchscreen integrated in an exterior surface of the scanning device, wherein the touchscreen enables a user to control the imaging device.
18. The portable scanning device of claim 16, wherein the imaging device is a camera integrated in a surface of the chamber and facing the shelf.
19. A method comprising: illuminating a sample on a tray disposed on a shelf of a scanning device, the tray including an area to stage the sample and having a size such that a field-of-view of a camera of a handheld device that is mounted on the scanning device includes the area; obtaining, over a communications network, an image of the sample captured with the camera of the handheld mobile device that is mounted on the scanning device, the image providing a resolution of physical features of the sample, the physical features including a plurality of colors, sizes, shapes, or textures of the sample; determining an attribute of the sample based on a combination of the physical features detected in the captured image of the sample; and communicating, over the communications network, an indication of the determined attribute of the sample for display on the handheld mobile device.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the sample includes at least one plant material and a non-plant contaminant.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the attribute of the plant material is determined in accordance with machine learning techniques.
22. The method of claim 19, wherein the handheld mobile device is a smartphone or tablet computer.
23. The method of claim 19 further comprising: causing the handheld mobile device to adjust the camera and capture another image of the sample to adjust or validate the determined attribute of the sample.
24. The method of claim 19 further comprising: causing the handheld mobile device to display instructions for adjusting the scanning device and capture another image of the sample to update or validate the determined attribute of the sample.
25. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the attribute of the sample comprises: detecting the physical features in the captured image of the sample; and identifying contents of the sample based on the combination of detected physical features.
26. The method of claim 19, wherein the method is performed by a cloud-based service communicatively coupled to the handheld mobile device over the communications network.
27. The system of claim 1, wherein the removable tray includes a plurality of raised sides that define the container, the staging surface is flat and matte, and the area is a rectangular.
28. The system of claim 1, wherein the detected physical properties of the sample material are indicative of an attribute including authenticity, purity, or quality of the sample material.
29. The method of claim 11, wherein the radiated light includes at least one of white or colored LED or incandescent light, ultraviolet (UV) light, or infrared (IR) light.
</claims>
</document>
