<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELECTRONIC ARTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOROVIKOV, IGOR
SARDARI, MOHSEN
KOLEN, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67620869
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Interactive agents for user engagement in an interactive environment
</title>

<abstract>
Various aspects of the subject technology relate to systems, methods, and machine-readable media for interactive computer-operated agents for user engagement in an interactive environment. Computer-operated agents are introduced to help populate a session and are configured to maximize engagement rates among users associated with user-controlled agents. During these interactions, engagement metrics are collected that indicate different interaction rates at different times by the computer-operated agents. The number of popular computer-operated agents (with relatively high interaction rates) can be kept in circulation while some less popular computer-operated agents (with relatively smaller interaction rates) can be kept in circulation for diversity or are purged from circulation. In the disclosed system, for each instance that a user-controlled agent interacts with a computer-operated agent, a log of behavior data from that interaction can be monitored and collected to generate and/or adjust behavior models that provide the behavioral response distribution for a given computer-operated agent.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: determining a number of participant devices connected to a multiuser session of an interactive environment, the multiuser session including a user-controlled agent associated with a participant device that initiated the multiuser session for interaction with other user-controlled agents that join the multiuser session; determining that the number of participant devices does not exceed a threshold session population for the multiuser session; providing a set of computer-operated agents associated with the interactive environment to the multiuser session based on the number of participant devices not exceeding the threshold session population, at least one computer-operated agent in the set of computer-operated agents being configured to interact with the user-controlled agent in the multiuser session, each of the at least one computer-operated agents associated with a corresponding behavior metadata, wherein the behavior metadata includes a behavioral response distribution that defines a decision making process for interactions between the at least one computer-operated agent and the user-controlled agents, and the behavioral response distribution for a given computer-operated agent is periodically updated responsive to interactions of the given at least one computer-operated agent; and maintaining at least one of the computer-operated agents in association with the corresponding behavior metadata independently of the multiuser session for use in subsequent different multiuser sessions of the interactive environment based on interactions of the computer-operated agents with the user-controlled agents.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating behavioral models from obtained interaction data, wherein each of the behavioral models includes a random distribution of behavioral response actions for the computer-operated agent.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein each of the behavioral models includes a behavior tree that drives selections of actions for the computer-operated agent, wherein the behavior tree is a binary decision tree that includes a parent node that represents a trigger event and a child node that represents a respective outcome from the trigger event.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the behavioral models represent respective configurations that utilize different input parameters, further comprising: translating input parameters to a corresponding behavioral sequence for a computer-operated agent.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein obtaining interaction data comprises measuring a number of interactions between the user-controlled agent and the computer-operated agent, and wherein the number of interactions is measured for each computer-operated agent of a collection of computer-operated agents in the multiuser session.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein computer-operated agents that induce the number of interactions that exceed a threshold interaction rate are reintroduced into a pool of behavioral models that are available for execution within the multiuser session.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein computer-operated agents that do not induce the number of interactions that exceed the threshold interaction rate are purged from a computer-operated agent population, and wherein computer-operated agents purged from the computer-operated agent population are not instantiated in a subsequent cycle.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the threshold interaction rate comprises at least a predetermined threshold that corresponds to a percentage of a maximum engagement rate with users of the interactive environment.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprising: fetching additional configurations that correspond to new behavioral models when the pool of behavioral models is updated.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving input indicating behavioral responses from a user-controlled agent that is in response to actions by a computer-operated agent, wherein the actions correspond to a behavioral model.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving one or more streams of user interaction data, wherein each of the one or more streams of user interaction data is associated with a particular context.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a different set of behavioral models for each type of user behavior, wherein each set of behavioral models includes a number of models that correspond to different sequences of actions responsive to the type of user behavior.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: loading a configuration for a given character being added to the multiuser session based on an identifier of the given character.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a sum of a number of user-controlled agents and a number of computer-operated agents that can coexist in the multiuser session is bounded by a maximum agent population.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a sum of a number of user-controlled agents and a number of computer-operated agents is below a maximum agent population and the sum is proximate to an agent population where a user engagement metric is proximate to a maximum interaction rate for users of the multiuser session.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a tuple of data that includes a state value, an action value and a reward value; running one of a plurality of behavioral models; and outputting a decision value for the behavioral model based on a received tuple of data.
17. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: determine whether a multiuser session of an interactive environment includes a number of participant devices that exceeds a threshold session population for the multiuser session, the multiuser session including a user-controlled agent associated with a participant device that initiated the multiuser session for interaction with other user-controlled agents that join the multiuser session; add a set of computer-operated agents associated with the interactive environment to the multiuser session when it is determined that the multiuser session does not include a number of participant devices that exceeds the threshold session population, each at least one computer-operated agent of the set of computer-operated agents associated with a corresponding behavior metadata, wherein the behavior metadata includes a behavioral response distribution that defines a decision making process for interactions between the at least one computer-operated agent and the user-controlled agents, and the behavioral response distribution for a given computer-operated agent is periodically updated responsive to interactions of the given at least one computer-operated agent; and maintain at least one of the computer-operated agents in association with the corresponding behavior metadata independently of the multiuser session for use in subsequent different multiuser sessions of the interactive environment based on interactions of the computer-operated agents with the user-controlled agents.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein computer-operated agents that have interaction rates with users that exceed a threshold interaction rate are reinstantiated to the multiuser session.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine a set of engagement metrics from the multiuser session of the interactive environment, wherein the set of engagement metrics include a number of interactions between a user-controlled agent and a computer-operated agent and a number of computer-operated agents being monitored.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: determining whether a multiuser session of an interactive environment includes a number of participant devices that exceeds a threshold session population for the multiuser session, the multiuser session including a user-controlled agent associated with a participant device that initiated the multiuser session for interaction with other user-controlled agents that join the multiuser session; adding a set of computer-operated agents associated with the interactive environment to the multiuser session when it is determined that the multiuser session does not include a number of participant devices that exceeds the threshold session population, each at least one computer-operated agent of the set of computer-operated agents associated with a corresponding behavior metadata, wherein the behavior metadata includes a behavioral response distribution that defines a decision making process for interactions between the at least one computer-operated agent and the user-controlled agents, and the behavioral response distribution for a given computer-operated agent is periodically updated responsive to interactions of the given at least one computer-operated agent; and maintaining at least one of the computer-operated agents in association with the corresponding behavior metadata independently of the multiuser session for use in subsequent different multiuser sessions of the interactive environment based on interactions of the computer-operated agents with the user-controlled agents.
</claims>
</document>
