<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/2457,G06F16/951,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROCKWELL AUTOMATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAUFMAN, PHILIP JOHN
WALKER, MARCIA ELAINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
42556702
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic sustainability search engine
</title>

<abstract>
The innovation relates to systems and/or methodologies for facilitating dynamic sustainability searches. A sustainability search component executes a query, and returns one or more results that satisfy a set of search criteria and a set of sustainability factors. The search criteria can include keywords, such as product types, process types, and additional features related to the keywords, such as price, location, brand, and so forth. The sustainability factors are alternative cost measures for a given process, product, or plant element. The sustainability search component can analyze the returned results, and rank the results based on sustainability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A supply chain management system, comprising: a set of industrial controllers comprising data associated with a plurality of industrial processes, wherein the plurality of industrial processes is configured to produce a plurality of products; and an electronic device configured to communicatively couple to the set of industrial controllers, wherein the electronic device comprises an interface device configured to enable a user to interact with the electronic device, a processor, and a memory, and wherein the memory comprises instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to: receive, via the interface device, a dynamic search request comprising: a type of product; a set of sustainability factors, wherein the set of sustainability factors comprises at least one of an environmental impact or a socio-environmental impact associated with a respective industrial process of the plurality of industrial processes; and a set of weights, wherein each weight of the set of weights is associated with a sustainability factor of the set of sustainability factors; receive, from the set of industrial controllers, a set of data elements associated with the plurality of industrial processes, wherein each respective data element is associated with a respective industrial controller of the set of industrial controllers; generate, in an artificial intelligence component, a sustainability ranking for each industrial process of a portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of data elements, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to: automatically determine a portion of the set of industrial controllers that is associated with the portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of data elements, wherein the portion of the plurality of industrial processes is configured to produce a first product of the plurality of products that corresponds to the type of product; automatically generate a sustainability score for each data element of a portion of the set of data elements that corresponds to the portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of sustainability factors and the set of weights; automatically generate the sustainability ranking based on the sustainability score of the respective data element and training data representative of observed behavior of the user over time; and display, via the interface device, the sustainability ranking for each industrial process of the portion of the plurality of industrial processes.
2. The supply chain management system of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to: receive a second set of data elements from the set of industrial controllers, wherein the second set of data elements comprises at least one update; and update the sustainability ranking based on the second set of data elements.
3. The supply chain management system of claim 2, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to update the portion of the set of industrial controllers based on the second set of data elements.
4. The supply chain management system of claim 1, wherein determining the portion of the set of industrial controllers comprise employing an automatic classifier system, that comprises a naive Bayes model, a Bayesian network, a decision tree, a neural network, a fuzzy logic model or a probabilistic classification model, and wherein training data for the automatic classifier system comprises the set of data elements.
5. The supply chain management system of claim 4, comprising a data store configured to store the training data.
6. The supply chain management system of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to adjust the set of weights based on the set of data elements.
7. The supply chain management system of claim 1, wherein the electronic device is coupled to the interface device and to at least one industrial controller via a cloud network.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium device comprising instructions that, when executed, are configured to cause a processor to: receive, via an interface device coupled to the processor, a dynamic search request comprising: a type of product; a set of sustainability factors, wherein the set of sustainability factors comprises at least one of an environmental impact or a socio-environmental impact associated with a respective industrial process of a plurality of industrial processes configured to produce a plurality of products; and a set of weights, wherein each weight of the set of weights is associated with a sustainability factor of the set of sustainability factors; receive, from a set of industrial controllers communicatively coupled to the processor through a network, a set of data elements associated with the plurality of industrial processes, wherein each respective data element is associated with a respective industrial controller of the set of industrial controllers; generate, in an artificial intelligence component, a sustainability ranking for each industrial process of a portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of data elements, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to: automatically determine a portion of the set of industrial controllers that is associated with the portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of data elements, wherein the portion of the plurality of industrial processes is configured to produce a first product of the plurality of products that corresponds to the type of product; automatically generate a sustainability score for each data element of a portion of the set of data elements that corresponds to the portion of the plurality of industrial processes based on the set of sustainability factors and the set of weights; automatically generate the sustainability ranking based on the sustainability score of the respective data element and training data representative of observed behavior of a user over time; and display, via the interface device, the sustainability ranking for each industrial process of the portion of the plurality of industrial processes.
9. The computer-readable medium device of claim 8, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to: receive a second set of data elements from the set of industrial controllers, wherein the second set of data elements comprises a change to at least one data element of the first set of data elements; and update the sustainability ranking based on the second set of data elements.
10. The computer-readable medium device of claim 9, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to update the portion of the set of industrial controllers based on the second set of data elements.
11. The computer-readable medium device of claim 8, wherein determining the portion of the set of industrial controllers comprise employing an automatic classifier system, that comprises a naive Bayes model, a Bayesian network, a decision tree, a neural network, a fuzzy logic model or a probabilistic classification model, and wherein training data for the automatic classifier system comprises the set of data elements.
12. The computer-readable medium device of claim 11, comprising a data-store configured to store the training data.
13. The computer-readable medium device of claim 8, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to adjust the set of weights based on the set of data elements.
14. The computer-readable medium device of claim 8, wherein the network comprises a cloud network.
15. A supply chain management system comprising: a display device, and configured to provide a plurality of user interfaces associated with an industrial environment, wherein each user interface is associated with a respective product of a set of products; and an electronic device coupled to the display device and to a plurality of targets comprising a set of industrial controllers of the industrial environment and a data-store, wherein the electronic device comprises a processor and a memory comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the processor to produce each user interface associated with a respective product by: retrieving from the data-store, a dynamic search associated with the respective product, wherein the dynamic search comprises: a set of sustainability factors comprising at least one of an environmental impact or a socio-environmental impact for a respective industrial process configured to produce the respective product; and a set of weights, wherein each weight of the set of weights is associated with a sustainability factor of the set of sustainability factors; receiving, from the plurality of targets, a set of data elements, wherein each data element is associated with an industrial controller; generating, in an artificial intelligence component, a respective sustainability ranking for the respective product, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to: determine a respective subset of industrial controllers of the set of industrial controllers that is associated with the respective product based on the set of data elements; generate a sustainability score for each data element based on the set of sustainability factors and the set of weights; and generate the respective sustainability ranking by ranking each industrial controller of the respective subset of industrial controllers based on the sustainability score of associated data elements; and providing, to the display device, the respective ranking for sustainability.
16. The supply chain management system of claim 15, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to include a new product to the set of products by: receive a second set of data elements from the set of industrial controllers; update the respective subset of industrial controllers based on the second set of data elements; and update the sustainability ranking based on the second set of data elements.
17. The supply chain management system of claim 16, wherein determining the respective subset of industrial controllers comprise employing an automatic classifier system, that comprises a naive Bayes model, a Bayesian network, a decision tree, a neural network, a fuzzy logic model or a probabilistic classification model, and wherein training data for the automatic classifier system comprises the set of data elements.
18. The supply chain management system of claim 17, comprising a data store configured to store the training data.
19. The supply chain management system of claim 15, wherein the artificial intelligence component is configured to adjust the set of weights based on the set of data elements.
20. The supply chain management system of claim 15, wherein the electronic device is coupled to the display device and to at least one industrial controller via a cloud network.
</claims>
</document>
