<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOU, AARON GIA-LI
GUO, DONG
RAJ, VIVEK
ZHONG, ZHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59086679
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for ranking calls to action based on information associated with online resources
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can identify a page within a social networking system. Information associated with at least one of the page or a representative of the page can be acquired. A set of calls to action implementable at the page can be identified. The set of calls to action can be ranked based on the information associated with at least one of the page or the representative of the page.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: identifying, by a computing system, a page within a social networking system, wherein the computing system is operated by a provider of the social networking system; acquiring, by the computing system, information associated with at least one of the page or an administrator of the page; identifying, by the computing system, a set of calls to action associated with the page, the set of calls to action implementable at the page to encourage actions by users of the social networking system; ranking, by the computing system, the set of calls to action based on the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page; and providing, by the computing system, the administrator with access to a list of calls to action identified based on ranking the set of calls to action, wherein the calls to action in the list differ from one another and satisfy a ranking threshold criterion relating to a predetermined number of highest ranking calls to action.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein ranking the set of calls to action based on the information further comprises: inputting the information into a model for evaluating call to action relevancy; utilizing the model to determine, for each call to action in the set of calls to action, a respective confidence score representing a respective level of relevance associated with each call to action relative to the page; and sorting the set of calls to action based on the respective confidence score for each call to action, wherein a first call to action with a higher confidence score is sorted higher in priority than a second call to action with a lower confidence score.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the model is trained based on one or more machine learning processes, and wherein the one or more machine learning processes use training data including information associated with at least one of other pages within the social networking system or other administrators of the other pages.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the model is dynamically updatable based on new training data collected over time.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein ranking the set of calls to action based on the information further comprises: identifying a second page within the social networking that is associated with at least a threshold similarity metric with respect to the page; identifying a particular call to action, out of the set of calls to action, that is associated with the second page; and increasing a particular confidence score representing a particular level of relevance associated with the particular call to action relative to the page.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the calls to action is selectable by the administrator for implementation at the page.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: recommending, for implementation at the page by the administrator, one or more of the calls to action.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein a single call to action is recommended, and wherein the ranking threshold criterion requires the single call to action to correspond to a highest ranked call to action.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page includes one or more signals associated with the page, and wherein the one or more signals associated with the page include at least one of a category signal, a location signal, a popularity signal, a web address signal, an availability signal, a physical address signal, or a media content signal.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page includes one or more signals associated with the administrator, and wherein the one or more signals associated with the representative include at least one of a historical behavior signal, a representative location signal, a representative language signal, or a representative demographic signal.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: identifying a page within a social networking system, wherein the computing system is operated by a provider of the social networking system; acquiring information associated with at least one of the page or an administrator of the page; identifying a set of calls to action associated with the page, the set of calls to action implementable at the page to encourage actions by users of the social networking system; ranking the set of calls to action based on the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page; and providing, by the computing system, the administrator with access to a list of calls to action identified based on ranking the set of calls to action, wherein the calls to action in the list differ from one another and satisfy a ranking threshold criterion relating to a predetermined number of highest ranking calls to action.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein ranking the set of calls to action based on the information further comprises: inputting the information into a model for evaluating call to action relevancy; utilizing the model to determine, for each call to action in the set of calls to action, a respective confidence score representing a respective level of relevance associated with each call to action relative to the page; and sorting the set of calls to action based on the respective confidence score for each call to action, wherein a first call to action with a higher confidence score is sorted higher in priority than a second call to action with a lower confidence score.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the instructions cause the system to further perform: recommending, for implementation at the page by the administrator, one or more of the calls to action.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page includes one or more signals associated with the page, and wherein the one or more signals associated with the page include at least one of a category signal, a location signal, a popularity signal, a web address signal, an availability signal, a physical address signal, or a media content signal.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: identifying a page within a social networking system, wherein the computing system is operated by a provider of the social networking system; acquiring information associated with at least one of the page or an administrator of the page; identifying a set of calls to action associated with the page, the set of calls to action implementable at the page to encourage actions by users of the social networking system; ranking the set of calls to action based on the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page; and providing, by the computing system, the administrator with access to a list of calls to action identified based on ranking the set of calls to action, wherein the calls to action in the list differ from one another and satisfy a ranking threshold criterion relating to a predetermined number of highest ranking calls to action.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein ranking the set of calls to action based on the information further comprises: inputting the information into a model for evaluating call to action relevancy; utilizing the model to determine, for each call to action in the set of calls to action, a respective confidence score representing a respective level of relevance associated with each call to action relative to the page; and sorting the set of calls to action based on the respective confidence score for each call to action, wherein a first call to action with a higher confidence score is sorted higher in priority than a second call to action with a lower confidence score.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein ranking the set of calls to action based on the information further comprises: recommending, for implementation at the page by the administrator, one or more of the calls to action.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the information associated with at least one of the page or the administrator of the page includes one or more signals associated with the page, and wherein the one or more signals associated with the page include at least one of a category signal, a location signal, a popularity signal, a web address signal, an availability signal, a physical address signal, or a media content signal.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of calls to action are selected by the administrator and each call to action of the plurality is associated with a respective product or service of a plurality of products or services of the page.
</claims>
</document>
