<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B13/04,G05B17/02,G05B21/02,G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
DOOSAN HEAVY INDUSTRIES & CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, HYUN SIK
PARK, JEE HUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65363809
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of predicting plant data and apparatus using the same
</title>

<abstract>
A method of predicting plant data in a system generates prediction data based on a plant prediction model and for detecting anomalies of the plant by comparing the prediction data with measurement data. The method can provide precise prediction data in a normal state even though the measurement data contains data in an anomalous state. Anomaly/fault prediction accuracy is enhanced by providing precise prediction data in the normal state. An apparatus using the method includes a plant modeling unit for generating a plant prediction model based on k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) by modeling a plant based on measurement data of multiple tags; and a prediction data generating unit for measuring similarity between the plant prediction model and the measurement data, determining a parameter k value based on the similarity, and generating plant normal state prediction data based on the determined parameter k value and the measured similarity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for predicting plant data, the apparatus comprising: a plant comprising an array of sensors and at least one of a power generation plant and a chemical manufacturing plant, each of the sensors generating measurement data of multiple tags obtained from measurements performed in the plant over time; and a processor configured to perform functions of: generating a plant prediction model based on k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) by modeling the plant based on the measurement data, the plant prediction model containing multiple data sets, each data set having a value for each tag of the multiple tags; and generating prediction data by measuring a similarity between the plant prediction model and the measurement data, determining a parameter k value based on the similarity, and generating plant normal state prediction data based on the determined parameter k value and the measured similarity, wherein the generating prediction data includes: determining similarity for each data set by measuring a similarity between each data set of the plant prediction model and the measurement data; determining a parameter k to be used in generating the prediction data, based on the determined similarity for each data set; and selecting k data sets in order of decreasing similarity based on the similarity for each data set and the determined parameter k, so that the prediction data is generated based on the selected k data sets.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the similarity for each data set is based on a difference between a value of each tag in each data set of the plant prediction model and a value of a corresponding tag of the measurement data, and on a preset deviation for each tag.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the similarity for each data set is determined according to where Sj denotes the similarity of a data set j, Zi,j denotes a value of a tag i of the data set j, xi denotes a value of the tag i of the measurement data, σi denotes the preset deviation of the tag i, and n denotes a number of tags.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the parameter k is determined by setting an optimum similarity; searching the multiple data sets for data sets having higher similarity than the optimum similarity and counting a number of data sets having higher similarity; and comparing the counted number with a preset maximum value and a preset minimum value of the parameter k.
5. The apparatus of claim 4, wherein the determining the parameter k includes: obtaining a similarity maximum value by comparing similarities of the data sets, and setting the optimum similarity by subtracting a preset parameter from the similarity maximum value, wherein the preset parameter is a value between zero and one.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the generating prediction data further includes generating the prediction data by a weighted average in which values of each tag in the selected k data sets are multiplied by weights proportional to similarities of the data sets, and the result is averaged.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform a function of determining anomalies of the plant by comparing the prediction data with the measurement data.
8. A method of predicting plant data, the method comprising: receiving measurement data of multiple tags from an array of sensors installed in a plant comprising at least one of a power generation plant and a chemical manufacturing plant, each of the sensors generating the measurement data of the multiple tags obtained from measurements performed in the plant over time; generating a plant prediction model based on k-nearest neighbors (k-NN) by modeling a plant based on measurement data of multiple tags; and generating prediction data by measuring a similarity between the plant prediction model and the measurement data, determining a parameter k value based on the similarity, and generating plant normal state prediction data based on the determined parameter k value and the measured similarity, wherein the generating prediction data includes: determining similarity for each data set by measuring a similarity between each data set of the plant prediction model and the measurement data; determining a parameter k to be used in generating the prediction data, based on the determined similarity for each data set; and selecting k data sets in order of decreasing similarity based on the similarity for each data set and the determined parameter k, so that the prediction data is generated based on the selected k data sets.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the similarity determining includes: determining the similarity for each data set based on a difference between a value for each tag in each data set of the plant prediction model and a value of a corresponding tag of the measurement data, and on a preset deviation for each tag.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the similarity for each data set is determined according to where Sj denotes the similarity of a data set j, Zi,j denotes a value of a tag i of the data set j, xi denotes a value of the tag i of the measurement data, σi denotes the preset deviation of the tag i, and n denotes a number of tags.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the parameter k to be used in generating the prediction data is determined by setting an optimum similarity; searching the multiple data sets for data sets having higher similarity than the optimum similarity and counting a number of data sets having higher similarity; and comparing the counted number with a preset maximum value and a preset minimum value of the parameter k.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the optimum similarity is set by obtaining a similarity maximum value by comparing similarities of the data sets and by subtracting a preset parameter from the similarity maximum value, wherein the parameter is a value between zero and one.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the generating of the prediction data includes generating the prediction data by a weighted average in which values of each tag in the selected k data sets are multiplied by weights proportional to similarities of the data sets, and the result is averaged.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining anomalies of the plant by comparing the prediction data and the measurement data.
</claims>
</document>
