<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/21,G06F21/56,G06N3/08,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUANTUM STAR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OETKEN, GARRETT THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69773662
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bit-level data generation and artificial intelligence techniques and architectures for data protection
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques and architectures for representing data with one or more n-dimensional representations and/or using one or more models to identify threats associated with the one or more n-dimensional representations are described herein. For example, the techniques and architectures may determine one or more coordinates for one or more points based on one or more sets of bits in the data and generate an n-dimensional representation for the data based on the one or more points. The techniques and architectures may evaluate the n-dimensional representation with one or more machine-trained models to detect a threat associated with the data, such as malware or another threat.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of detecting malware, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, data from a data store; identifying, by the computing device, at least a first group of bits in the data and a second group of bits in the data; representing, by the computing device, a first set of bits in the first group of bits as a first coordinate for a first point and a second set of bits in the first group of bits as a second coordinate for the first point; representing, by the computing device, a first set of bits in the second group of bits as a first coordinate for a second point and a second set of bits in the second group of bits as a second coordinate for the second point; generating, by the computing device, an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first point and the second point, the n-dimensional representation including at least three dimensions; processing the n-dimensional representation using an artificial neural network that has been trained using machine learning; detecting a threat based at least in part on the processing; and performing a threat operation to address the threat, the threat operation comprising at least one of removing the threat, preventing the threat from associating with the data, or providing a notification to another computing device regarding the threat.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: representing, by the computing device, a third set of bits in the first group of bits as a third coordinate for the first point.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a first byte, the second set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a second byte that is directly adjacent to the first byte, and the third set of bits in the first group of bits comprises a third byte that is directly adjacent to the second byte.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises file system data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the data comprises non-image-based data.
6. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, instruct one or more processors to perform operations comprising: obtaining data; determining a first coordinate for a first point based at least in part on a first set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a second set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the first set of bits; determining a first coordinate for a second point based at least in part on a third set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the second point based at least in part on a fourth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the third set of bits; generating an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first and second coordinates for the first point and the first and second coordinates for the second point, the n-dimensional representation including at least three dimensions; processing the n-dimensional representation using an artificial neural network that has been trained with machine learning; detecting a threat based at least in part on the processing; and performing a threat operation to address the threat, the threat operation comprising at least one of removing the threat, preventing the threat from associating with the data, or providing a notification to a computing device regarding the threat.
7. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 6, wherein the data comprises at least one of file system data, network traffic data, runtime data, or data associated with an isolated environment.
8. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 6, wherein the first set of bits is directly adjacent to the second set of bits.
9. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a type of the data; and determining to represent the data with a first portion of the data based at least in part on the type of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits, the second set of bits, the third set of bits, and the fourth set of bits.
10. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: training the artificial neural network based at least in part on one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being associated with one or more threats and one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being threat free.
11. A system comprising: control circuitry; and memory communicatively coupled to the control circuitry and storing executable instructions that, when executed by the control circuitry, cause the control circuitry to perform operations comprising: obtaining data; determining a first coordinate for a first point based at least in part on a first set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a second set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the first set of bits; determining a first coordinate for a second point based at least in part on a third set of bits in the data and determining a second coordinate for the second point based at least in part on a fourth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the third set of bits; generating an n-dimensional representation for the data based at least in part on the first and second coordinates for the first point and the first and second coordinates for the second point, the n-dimensional representation including at least three dimensions; processing the n-dimensional representation with an artificial neural network that has been trained based at least in part on machine learning; identifying a threat based at least in part on the processing; and performing a threat operation to address the threat, the threat operation comprising at least one of removing the threat, preventing the threat from associating with the data, or providing a notification to a computing device regarding the threat.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the first set of bits is directly adjacent to the second set of bits.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a type of the data; and determining to represent the data with a first portion of the data based at least in part on the type of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits, the second set of bits, the third set of bits, and the fourth set of bits.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: training the artificial neural network based at least in part on one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being associated with one or more threats and one or more n-dimensional representations that are tagged as being threat free.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: extracting a first portion of the data and refraining from extracting a second portion of the data, the first portion of the data including the first set of bits and the second set of bits.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the data comprises non-image-based data.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 6, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a third coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a fifth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the second set of bits, wherein the generating the n-dimensional representation is based at least in part on the third coordinate for the first point.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 17, wherein the fifth set of bits is directly adjacent to the second set of bits.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a third coordinate for the first point based at least in part on a fifth set of bits in the data that is adjacent to the second set of bits, wherein the generating the n-dimensional representation is based at least in part on the third coordinate for the first point.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the fifth set of bits is directly adjacent to the second set of bits.
</claims>
</document>
