<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LIQUID BIOSCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LILLEY, PATRICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458533
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Iterative feature selection methods
</title>

<abstract>
Feature selection methods and processes that facilitate reduction of model components available for iterative modeling. It has been discovered that methods of eliminating model components that do not meaningfully contribute to a solution can be preliminarily discovered and discarded, thereby dramatically decreasing computational requirements in iterative programming techniques. This development unlocks the ability of iterative modeling to be used to solve complex problems that, in the past, would have required computation time on orders of magnitude too great to be useful.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of decreasing computation time required to improve models that relate predictors and outcomes in a dataset utilizing a processor within a computing system, the method comprising the steps of: generating an at least one model comprising an at least one model component; performing an iterative model development process to generate a set of improved models, including a first improved model based on the at least one model, the improved set of models comprising at least two generations of models; computing, using a subset of the dataset, a model-attribute metric corresponding to the at least one model; computing an at least one utility metric of the at least one model component comprising a ratio, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a quantity of models in which the at least one model component is present in the set of improved models; wherein a denominator of the ratio is incremented when the at least one model component is present in a pool of model components; computing a weighted utility metric that corresponds to the at least one model component, the weighted utility metric comprising an outcome of a function that incorporates the model-attribute metric and the at least one utility metric; eliminating, based on the weighted utility metric, the at least one model component from the pool of model components; identifying, based on a criterion, a model from a generation of the at least two generations of models; and saving the identified model; wherein the iterative model development process is a deep learning method.
2. The model of claim 1, further comprising the step of introducing the identified model to a subsequent run of models by generating a subsequent run of models comprising a plurality of models, wherein a subsequent generation of models within the subsequent run of models comprises the identified model.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the run of models comprises randomly generated models.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsequent run of models further comprises at least one of a crossover of at least two models from the run of models, and a mutated model from the run of models.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the subsequent run of models further comprises randomly generated models.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one criterion comprises at least one of a model accuracy compared to other models in the generation, a characteristic compared to other models in the generation, a model length compared to other models in the generation, and a computation time compared to other models in the generation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the identified model comprises a model component that is absent from the subsequent run of models.
8. A method of decreasing computation time required to improve models that relate predictors and outcomes in a dataset utilizing a processor within a computing system, the method comprising the steps of: generating an at least one model comprising an at least one model component; performing an iterative model development process to generate a set of improved models, including a first improved model based on the at least one model, the improved set of models comprising at least one generation of models; computing, using a subset of the dataset, a model-attribute metric corresponding to the at least one model; computing an at least one utility metric of the at least one model component comprising a ratio, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a quantity of models in which the at least one model component is present in the set of improved models; wherein a denominator of the ratio is incremented when the at least one model component is present in a pool of model components; computing a weighted utility metric that corresponds to the at least one model component, the weighted utility metric comprising an outcome of a function that incorporates the model-attribute metric and the at least one utility metric; eliminating, based on the weighted utility metric, the at least one model component from the pool of model components; identifying from the at least one generation of models, based on at least one criterion, a first model, wherein the first model is not a preferred model from the at least one generation; and saving the identified model; wherein the iterative model development process is a deep learning method.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising the step of introducing the first model to a subsequent generation of models by generating a subsequent generation of models comprising the first model.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the subsequent generation of models further comprises randomly generated models.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the at least one criterion comprises at least one of a model accuracy compared to other models in the generation, a characteristic compared to other models in the generation, a model length compared to other models in the generation, and a computation time compared to other models in the generation.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the subsequent generation of models further comprises at least one of a crossover of at least two models from the generation of models, and a mutated model from the generation of models.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising the steps of: identifying, based on the at least one criterion, a second model from the subsequent generation of models, wherein the second model is not a preferred model from subsequent generation; and introducing the second model and the first model to a new subsequent generation of models by generating the new subsequent generation of models comprising the second model and the first model.
14. A method of decreasing computation time required to improve models that relate predictors and outcomes in a dataset utilizing a processor within a computing system, the method comprising the steps of: generating an at least one model comprising an at least one model component; performing an iterative model development process to generate a set of improved models, including a first improved model based on the at least one model, the improved set of models comprising a plurality of generations of models; computing, using a subset of the dataset, a model-attribute metric corresponding to the at least one model; computing an at least one utility metric of the at least one model component comprising a ratio, wherein a numerator of the ratio comprises a quantity of models in which the at least one model component is present in the set of improved models; wherein a denominator of the ratio is incremented when the at least one model component is present in a pool of model components; computing a weighted utility metric that corresponds to the at least one model component, the weighted utility metric comprising an outcome of a function that incorporates the model-attribute metric and the at least one utility metric; eliminating, based on the weighted utility metric, the at least one model component from the pool of model components; identifying, based on a criterion, a model for each generation in a subset of the plurality of generations of models; wherein each identified model is a preferred model from its corresponding generation; and saving each identified model; wherein the iterative model development process is a deep learning method.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising the step of introducing each identified model to a final generation of the run of models by generating a final generation of models comprising each identified model.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the subsequent generation of models additionally comprises randomly generated models.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the criterion comprises at least one of a model accuracy compared to other models in the generation, a characteristic compared to other models in the generation, a model length compared to other models in the generation, and a computation time compared to other models in the generation.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the subsequent generation of models further comprises at least one of a crossover of at least two models from the generation of models, and a mutated model from the generation of models.
</claims>
</document>
