<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/20,G06F17/50,G06F30/13,G06F30/18,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06T7/11,G06T7/194,H04W4/02,H04W4/33,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WICHITA STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHERAGHI, SEYED ALI
NAMBOODIRI, VINOD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65517896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Beacon-based indoor wayfinding system with automated beacon placement
</title>

<abstract>
An automated process designs an indoor wayfinding system using wireless beacons interacting with a mobile smartphone to guide a user to a destination. Image processing and computational geometric techniques extracting necessary information about an indoor space to determine beacon placement and support path computations for navigation. An architectural floor plan of the indoor space of interest is scanned to extract all the points of interest (doors, stairs, elevators, etc.), to identify walking paths within this space, and to create a connectivity graph representation of the space upon which path computations for navigation can be performed. Optimized locations where beacons should be placed on the indoor floor plan are identified very quickly and with minimal effort.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of configuring a wayfinding system including identifying beacon locations within a navigating space, comprising the steps of: preparing a scaled floor plan image representing the navigating space as a binary image with a foreground and a background; detecting continuous regions of pixels in the background; selecting a continuous region in the background having a largest pixel area as a main indoor path; classifying image features within the foreground by comparison with predetermined target features to identify building blocks in the foreground which are coincident with the main path; designating the coincident building blocks and nodes within the main path as navigational points of interest, wherein the nodes include intersections in the main path; condensing the continuous pixel region of the main path into a skeleton representation; and designating a preliminary beacon location at each point of interest and at each node of the skeleton representation.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising the step of: adding or subtracting beacon locations according to a predetermined target spacing between adjacent final beacon locations.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps of: storing a connectivity graph including distance intervals and directional orientations for path segments between adjacent nodes and points of interest; and calculating relative path weights for the path segments to support route calculations via a navigation map compiled for the wayfinding system.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of classifying image features is comprised of: identifying a plurality of building block symbols used in the floor plan image; iteratively overlaying the plurality of symbols at pluralities of locations on the floor plan image; and detecting occurrence of a corresponding building block when an overlaid symbol has a predetermined congruence with the floor plan image.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising the step of: scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature; wherein the pluralities of locations for iteratively overlaying the symbols consist of the blocks of pixels potentially representing the image feature.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of classifying image features is comprised of: identifying a plurality of building block symbols used in the floor plan image; iteratively overlaying the plurality of symbols at pluralities of locations on the floor plan image; detecting occurrence of a potential building block when an overlaid symbol has a predetermined congruence with the floor plan image; cropping a corresponding portion of the floor plan image for each potential building block; verifying the potential building blocks by classifying each cropped portion using a trained database via supervised machine learning, wherein the trained database represents a plurality of building block symbols; wherein the step of designating the coincident building blocks considers only the potential building blocks that are verified.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising the step of: scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature; wherein the pluralities of locations for iteratively overlaying the symbols consist of the blocks of pixels potentially representing the image feature.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the step of classifying image features is comprised of: scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature; and classifying each block of pixels that potentially represents the image feature using a trained database via supervised machine learning, wherein the trained database represents a plurality of building block symbols.
9. The method of claim 1 further detecting enclosed rooms in the floor plan image comprising the steps of: dilating pixel regions corresponding to the main path and the coincident building blocks; and labeling continuous regions within the background not including the dilated pixel regions and having a corresponding area within a predetermined range of area as a respective room.
10. A system for configuring a wayfinding system including identifying beacon locations within a navigating space, comprising: a module for storing a scaled floor plan image representing the navigating space as a binary image with a foreground and a background; a module for detecting continuous regions of pixels in the background and selecting a continuous region in the background having a largest pixel area as a main indoor path; a module for classifying image features within the foreground by comparison with predetermined target features to identify building blocks in the foreground which are coincident with the main path; a module for designating the coincident building blocks and nodes within the main path as navigational points of interest, wherein the nodes include intersections in the main path; a module for condensing the continuous pixel region of the main path into a skeleton representation; and a module for designating a preliminary beacon location at each point of interest and at each node of the skeleton representation.
11. The system of claim 10 further comprising: a module for adding or subtracting beacon locations according to a predetermined target spacing between adjacent final beacon locations.
12. The system of claim 10 further comprising: a module storing a connectivity graph including distance intervals and directional orientations for path segments between adjacent nodes and points of interest; and a module calculating relative path weights for the path segments to support route calculations via a navigation map compiled for the wayfinding system.
13. The system of claim 10 wherein the module for classifying image features is comprised of: a module for identifying a plurality of building block symbols used in the floor plan image; a module for iteratively overlaying the plurality of symbols at pluralities of locations on the floor plan image; and a module for detecting occurrence of a corresponding building block when an overlaid symbol has a predetermined congruence with the floor plan image.
14. The system of claim 13 further comprising: a module for scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature, wherein the pluralities of locations for iteratively overlaying the symbols consist of the blocks of pixels potentially representing the image feature.
15. The system of claim 10 wherein the module for classifying image features is comprised of: a module for identifying a plurality of building block symbols used in the floor plan image; a module for iteratively overlaying the plurality of symbols at pluralities of locations on the floor plan image; a module for detecting occurrence of a potential building block when an overlaid symbol has a predetermined congruence with the floor plan image; a module for cropping a corresponding portion of the floor plan image for each potential building block; and a module for verifying the potential building blocks by classifying each cropped portion using a trained database via supervised machine learning, wherein the trained database represents a plurality of building block symbols, wherein designating the coincident building blocks considers only the potential building blocks that are verified.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising: a module for scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature, wherein the pluralities of locations for iteratively overlaying the symbols consist of the blocks of pixels potentially representing the image feature.
17. The system of claim 10 wherein the module for classifying image features is comprised of: a module for scanning the foreground for blocks of pixels potentially representing an image feature; and a module for classifying each block of pixels that potentially represents the image feature using a trained database via supervised machine learning, wherein the trained database represents a plurality of building block symbols.
18. The system of claim 10 further comprising: a module for dilating pixel regions corresponding to the main path and the coincident building blocks; and a module for labeling continuous regions within the background not including the dilated pixel regions and having a corresponding area within a predetermined range of area as a respective room.
</claims>
</document>
