<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R1/00,G06F16/2455,G06F16/583,G06F16/783,G06F17/30,G06K9/00,H04L29/08,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
XEVO
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORDELL, JOHN PALMER
LUDWIG, JOHN HAYES
MCKELVIE, SAMUEL JAMES
TONG, RICHARD CHIA TSING
WELLAND, ROBERT VICTOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63672614
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for providing predictions via artificial intelligence (AI) models using a distributed system
</title>

<abstract>
One embodiment discloses an automobile having multiple distributed subsystems configured to provide communication via a network system. The automobile includes an outward facing camera ("OFC") subsystem and a vehicle onboard computer ("VOC"). The OFC subsystem, having at least one OFC, OFC processor, and OFC database, is configured to recognize a predefined exterior object from a set of exterior images captured by the OFC based on an OFC query. The VOC includes a VOC central processing unit, VOC database, and network manager, wherein the network manager includes an internal network circuit and an external network circuit. The internal network circuit is used for communicating with the OFC subsystem while the external network circuit is used to interface with a cloud system. In one aspect, the VOC provides a data stream representing a recognized event in accordance with a query retrieved from the VOC database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automobile system configured to have a plurality of distributed subsystems able to provide network communication via a wireless network system, comprising: an outward facing camera subsystem, having at least an outward facing camera, outward facing camera processor, and outward facing camera database, configured to recognize a predefined exterior object from a set of exterior images captured by the outward facing camera based on an exterior image query fetched from the outward facing camera database; and a vehicle onboard computer coupled to the outward facing camera subsystem and having a vehicle onboard computer central processing unit, vehicle onboard computer database, and network manager, wherein the network manager includes an internal network circuit for communicating with the outward facing camera subsystem and an external network circuit for interfacing with a cloud system, the vehicle onboard computer configured to provide a data stream representing a recognized event in accordance with a query retrieved from the vehicle onboard computer database, wherein the vehicle onboard computer database includes a historical storage for storing historical records associated with the automobile, a current storage for storing substantially real-time data associated with the automobile, and a big data storage for storing data collected by other automobiles.
2. The automobile system of claim 1, further comprising an inward facing camera subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one inward facing camera, inward facing camera processor, and inward facing camera database, wherein the inward facing camera subsystem is configured to observe interior images inside a vehicle cabin of the automobile.
3. The automobile system of claim 2, wherein the inward facing camera subsystem is configured to recognize a predefined interior object from a set of interior images captured by the inward facing camera based on an interior image query.
4. The automobile system of claim 1, further comprising an exterior audio subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one exterior audio microphone, exterior audio processor, and exterior audio database, the exterior audio subsystem configured to capture exterior sound detected by the exterior audio microphone.
5. The automobile system of claim 4, wherein the exterior audio subsystem is configured to send a data stream summarizing captured audio sound to the vehicle onboard computer based on an exterior audio query.
6. The automobile system of claim 1, further comprising an interior audio subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one interior audio microphone, interior audio processor, and interior audio database, the interior audio subsystem configured to capture interior sound detected by the interior audio microphone.
7. The automobile system of claim 6, wherein the interior audio subsystem is configured to send a data stream summarizing captured interior audio sound to the vehicle onboard computer based on an interior audio query.
8. The automobile system of claim 1, wherein the outward facing camera database includes a historical storage for storing historical records associated with the outward facing camera subsystem, a current storage for storing substantially real-time data associated with the outward facing camera subsystem, and an outward facing camera big data storage for storing data collected by other subsystems.
9. The automobile system of claim 1, wherein the internal network circuit is configured to selectively signal at least a portion of a plurality of subsystems to locally generate predictive data representing an observed event based on a vehicle onboard computer query generated in response to a request from the cloud system.
10. An automobile system configured to have a plurality of distributed subsystems able to provide network communication via a wireless network system, comprising: an outward facing camera subsystem, having at least an outward facing camera, outward facing camera processor, and outward facing camera database, configured to recognize a predefined exterior object from a set of exterior images captured by the outward facing camera based on an exterior image query fetched from the outward facing camera database, wherein the outward facing camera database includes a historical storage for storing historical records associated with the outward facing camera subsystem, a current storage for storing substantially real-time data associated with the outward facing camera subsystem, and an outward facing camera big data storage for storing data collected by other subsystems; and a vehicle onboard computer coupled to the outward facing camera subsystem and having a vehicle onboard computer central processing unit, vehicle onboard computer database, and network manager, wherein the network manager includes an internal network circuit for communicating with the outward facing camera subsystem and an external network circuit for interfacing with a cloud system, the vehicle onboard computer configured to provide a data stream representing a recognized event in accordance with a query retrieved from the vehicle onboard computer database.
11. The automobile system of claim 10, further comprising an inward facing camera subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one inward facing camera, inward facing camera processor, and inward facing camera database, wherein the inward facing camera subsystem is configured to observe interior images inside a vehicle cabin of the automobile.
12. The automobile system of claim 11, wherein the inward facing camera subsystem is configured to recognize a predefined interior object from a set of interior images captured by the inward facing camera based on an interior image query.
13. The automobile system of claim 10, further comprising an exterior audio subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one exterior audio microphone, exterior audio processor, and exterior audio database, the exterior audio subsystem configured to capture exterior sound detected by the exterior audio microphone.
14. The automobile system of claim 13, wherein the exterior audio subsystem is configured to send a data stream summarizing captured audio sound to the vehicle onboard computer based on an exterior audio query.
15. The automobile system of claim 10, further comprising an interior audio subsystem coupled to the vehicle onboard computer and that includes at least one interior audio microphone, interior audio processor, and interior audio database, the interior audio subsystem configured to capture interior sound detected by the interior audio microphone.
16. The automobile system of claim 15, wherein the interior audio subsystem is configured to send a data stream summarizing captured interior audio sound to the vehicle onboard computer based on an interior audio query.
17. The automobile system of claim 10, wherein the vehicle onboard computer database includes a historical storage for storing historical records associated with the automobile, a current storage for storing substantially real-time data associated with the automobile, and a big data storage for storing data collected by other automobiles.
18. The automobile system of claim 10, wherein the internal network circuit is configured to selectively signal at least a portion of a plurality of subsystems to locally generate predictive data representing an observed event based on a vehicle onboard computer query generated in response to a request from the cloud system.
</claims>
</document>
