<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HASSANZADEH, AMIN
BURKETT, ROBIN LYNN
CHEN, CHIEN AN
BENAMEUR, AZZEDINE
KRISHAK, APOORV
GHALATY, NAHID FARHADY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63491431
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection of adversary lateral movement in multi-domain IIOT environments
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations are directed to methods for detecting and identifying advanced persistent threats (APTs) in networks, including receiving first domain activity data from a first network domain and second domain activity data from a second network domain, including multiple alerts from the respective first and second network domains and where each alert of the multiple alerts results from one or more detected events in the respective first or second network domains. A classification determined for each alert of the multiple alerts with respect to a cyber kill chain. A dependency is then determined for each of one or more pairs of alerts and a graphical visualization of the multiple alerts is generated, where the graphical visualization includes multiple nodes and edges between the nodes, each node corresponding to the cyber kill chain and representing at least one alert, and each edge representing a dependency between alerts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting and identifying advanced persistent threats (APTs) in networks, the method being executed by one or more processors and comprising: receiving first domain activity data from a first network domain and second domain activity data from a second network domain, the first domain activity data and the second domain activity data including a plurality of alerts from the respective first and second network domains, each alert of the plurality of alerts resulting from one or more detected events in the respective first or second network domains; determining, for each alert of the plurality of alerts, a classification of the alert with respect to a cyber kill chain; determining, for each of one or more pairs of alerts, a dependency; generating, from the plurality of alerts, a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts, the graphical visualization comprising a plurality of nodes, and edges between nodes, each node corresponding to the cyber kill chain, and representing at least one alert, and each edge representing a dependency between alerts, wherein generating a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts further comprises generating an adversary prediction model, wherein for at least one alert of the plurality of alerts a prediction is made of the one or more steps that an adversary may take based at least in part on the graphical visualization.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein classification of the alert includes surveying one or more devices in a local network included in the first network domain and the second network domain.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein classification of the alert comprises obtaining threat intelligence data from one or more global threat databases.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein classification of the alert includes labeling the alert by one or more machine-learning algorithms trained using training data comprising a plurality of labeled alerts.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein classification of the alert includes applying one or more labels to the alert by an expert.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining, for each of one or more pairs of alerts, the dependency comprises identifying at least one prerequisite step to the particular step of the cyber kill chain process corresponding to the one or more pairs of alerts and at least one consequence step for the particular step of the cyber kill chain process corresponding to the one or more pairs of alerts, wherein the at least one prerequisite and the at least one consequence for each of one or more pairs of alerts depends in part on the classification of the alerts.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein each alert of the plurality of alerts having a set of one or more prerequisite steps and one or more consequence steps is correlated with each other alert of the plurality of alerts having a same set of one or more prerequisite steps and one or more consequence steps.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts includes, for each given alert of the plurality of alerts, designating at least one edge between the given alert and one other alert of the plurality of alerts, wherein the edge represents a prerequisite step or a consequence step for the given alert.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first network domain is an information technology network domain and the second network domain is an operational technology network domain.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the cyber kill chain is an industrial control system cyber kill chain.
11. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media coupled to one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for detecting and identifying advanced persistent threats (APTs) in networks, the operations comprising: receiving first domain activity data from a first network domain and second domain activity data from a second network domain, the first domain activity data and the second domain activity data including a plurality of alerts from the respective first and second network domains, each alert of the plurality of alerts resulting from one or more detected events in the respective first or second network domains; determining, for each alert of the plurality of alerts, a classification of the alert with respect to a cyber kill chain; determining, for each of one or more pairs of alerts, a dependency; generating, from the plurality of alerts, a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts, the graphical visualization comprising a plurality of nodes, and edges between nodes, each node corresponding to the cyber kill chain, and representing at least one alert, and each edge representing a dependency between alerts, wherein generating a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts further comprises generating an adversary prediction model, wherein for at least one alert of the plurality of alerts a prediction is made of the one or more steps that an adversary may take based at least in part on the graphical visualization.
12. The storage media of claim 11, wherein classification of the alert includes surveying one or more devices in a local network included in the first network domain and the second network domain.
13. The storage media of claim 11, wherein classification of the alert comprises obtaining threat intelligence data from one or more global threat databases.
14. The storage media of claim 11, wherein classification of the alert includes labeling the alert by one or more machine-learning algorithms trained using training data comprising a plurality of labeled alerts.
15. The storage media of claim 11, wherein classification of the alert includes applying one or more labels to the alert by an expert.
16. The storage media of claim 11, wherein determining, for each of one or more pairs of alerts, the dependency comprises identifying at least one prerequisite step to the particular step of the cyber kill chain process corresponding to the one or more pairs of alerts and at least one consequence step for the particular step of the cyber kill chain process corresponding to the one or more pairs of alerts, wherein the at least one prerequisite and the at least one consequence for each of one or more pairs of alerts depends in part on the classification of the alerts.
17. The storage media of claim 16, wherein each alert of the plurality of alerts having a set of one or more prerequisite steps and one or more consequence steps is correlated with each other alert of the plurality of alerts having a same set of one or more prerequisite steps and one or more consequence steps.
18. The storage media of claim 11, wherein generating a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts includes, for each given alert of the plurality of alerts, designating at least one edge between the given alert and one other alert of the plurality of alerts, wherein the edge represents a prerequisite step or a consequence step for the given alert.
19. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and a computer-readable storage device coupled to the one or more processors and having instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations for detecting and identifying advanced persistent threats (APTs) in networks, the operations comprising: receiving first domain activity data from a first network domain and second domain activity data from a second network domain, the first domain activity data and the second domain activity data including a plurality of alerts from the respective first and second network domains, each alert of the plurality of alerts resulting from one or more detected events in the respective first or second network domains; determining, for each alert of the plurality of alerts, a classification of the alert with respect to a cyber kill chain; determining, for each of one or more pairs of alerts, a dependency; generating, from the plurality of alerts, a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts, the graphical visualization comprising a plurality of nodes, and edges between nodes, each node corresponding to the cyber kill chain, and representing at least one alert, and each edge representing a dependency between alerts, wherein generating a graphical visualization of the plurality of alerts further comprises generating an adversary prediction model, wherein for at least one alert of the plurality of alerts a prediction is made of the one or more steps that an adversary may take based at least in part on the graphical visualization.
</claims>
</document>
