<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/62,G06F9/48,G06F9/50,H04L12/24,H04L12/911,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG KUN
ZHAO JUNPING
GUO, FAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66290926
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, device, and computer readable medium for managing dedicated processing resources
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate to a method, a device and a computer readable medium for managing a dedicated processing resource. According to the embodiments of the present disclosure, a server receives a request of a first application from a client, and based on an index of a resource subset as comprised in the request, determines a dedicated processing resource corresponding to the resource subset for processing the first application request. According to the embodiments of the present disclosure, the dedicated processing resource is divided into a plurality of resource subsets, so that the utilization efficiency of the dedicated processing resource is improved.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for managing a dedicated processing resource, comprising: receiving, from a client, a request of a first application, the request of the first application comprising an index of a first resource subset configured for stream processing, the first resource subset being one of a plurality of resource subsets generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource, the plurality of resource subsets having corresponding indexes, the dedicated processing resource comprising at least one of: a computing resource and a storage resource; obtaining a mapping between the dedicated processing resource and the plurality of resource subsets; and determining, based on the index of the first resource subset, the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset from the mapping for processing the request of the first application; wherein the method further comprises, in response to receiving requests of a first set of applications: queuing the requests of the first set of applications; scheduling a resource comprised in at least one resource subset of the plurality of resource subsets to at least one request of the requests of the first set of applications based on priorities of the requests of the first set of applications, the priorities indicating an order in which applications are processed; and mapping the at least one application request to at least one of a plurality of created streams.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is executed by a software module.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining a mapping between the dedicated processing resource and the plurality of resource subsets comprises: obtaining the mapping from a storage device on which the mapping is stored.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset comprises: determining, based on the index of the first resource subset, an index of the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the index of the first resource subset from the mapping; and determining, based on the index of the dedicated processing resource, the dedicated processing resource from a plurality of dedicated processing resources.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset comprises: determining access permission of the request of the first application to the first resource subset; and in response to the request of the first application having the access permission, determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring a situation that the request of the first application uses the dedicated processing resource for billing the first application.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of resource subsets are generated by equally dividing the dedicated processing resource.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of resource subsets are generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource into resource subsets with different resource amounts based on a resource configuration parameter.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a context created for the dedicated processing resource and at least one stream for processing a request of an application from the client; and processing the request of the first application by using the context and the at least one stream.
10. A device for managing a dedicated processing resource, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory coupled to the at least one processor and having instructions stored thereon, the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, causing the device to perform acts comprising: receiving, from a client, a request for a first application, the request of the first application comprising an index of a first resource subset configured for stream processing, the first resource subset being one of a plurality of resource subsets generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource, the plurality of resource subsets having corresponding indexes, the dedicated processing resource comprising at least one of a computing resource and a storage resource; obtaining a mapping between the dedicated processing resource and the plurality of resource subsets; and determining, based on the index of the first resource subset, the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset from the mapping for processing the request of the first application; wherein the acts further comprise, in response to receiving requests of a first set of applications: queuing the requests of the first set of applications; scheduling a resource comprised in at least one resource subset of the plurality of resource subsets to at least one request of the requests of the first set of applications based on priorities of the requests of the first set of applications, the priorities indicating an order in which applications are processed; and mapping the at least one application request to at least one of a plurality of created streams.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein obtaining a mapping between the dedicated processing resource and the plurality of resource subsets comprises: obtaining the mapping from a storage device on which the mapping is stored.
12. The device of claim 10, wherein determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset comprises: determining, based on the index of the first resource subset, an index of the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the index of the first resource subset from the mapping; and determining, based on the index of the dedicated processing resource, the dedicated processing resource from a plurality dedicated processing resources.
13. The device of claim 10, wherein determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset comprises: determining access permission of the request of the first application to the first resource subset; and in response to the request of the first application having the access permission, determining the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset.
14. The device of claim 10, wherein the acts further comprise: monitoring a situation that the request of the first application uses the dedicated processing resource for billing the first application.
15. The device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of resource subsets are generated by equally dividing the dedicated processing resource.
16. The device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of resource subsets are generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource into resource subsets with different resource amounts based on a resource configuration parameter.
17. The device of claim 10, wherein the acts further comprise: obtaining a context created for the dedicated processing resource and at least one stream for processing a request of an application from the client; and processing the request of the first application by using the context and the at least one stream.
18. A computer program product for managing a dedicated processing resource, the computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer readable medium encoded with computer-executable program code, the code configured to enable the execution of: receiving, from a client, a request of a first application, the request of the first application comprising an index of a first resource subset configured for stream processing, the first resource subset being one of a plurality of resource subsets generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource, the plurality of resource subsets having corresponding indexes, the dedicated processing resource comprising at least one of: a computing resource and a storage resource; obtaining a mapping between the dedicated processing resource and the plurality of resource subsets; and determining, based on the index of the first resource subset, the dedicated processing resource corresponding to the first resource subset from the mapping for processing the request of the first application; wherein the code is further configured to enable the execution of, in response to receiving requests of a first set of applications: queuing the requests of the first set of applications; scheduling a resource comprised in at least one resource subset of the plurality of resource subsets to at least one request of the requests of the first set of applications based on priorities of the requests of the first set of applications, the priorities indicating an order in which applications are processed; and mapping the at least one application request to at least one of a plurality of created streams.
19. The computer program product of claim 18 wherein the plurality of resource subsets are generated by dividing the dedicated processing resource into resource subsets with different resource amounts based on a resource configuration parameter.
20. The computer program product of claim 18 wherein the code is further configured to enable the execution of: obtaining a context created for the dedicated processing resource and at least one stream for processing a request of an application from the client; and processing the request of the first application by using the context and the at least one stream.
</claims>
</document>
