<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65B51/02,B65B61/28,B65B9/20,B65D65/14,B65D75/12,B65D75/26,B65D75/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FRITO-LAY NORTH AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
JASSO, MAURICIO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66328249
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Resealable package and associated materials, methods and systems for its manufacture
</title>

<abstract>
An improved package precursor, resealable package, assembly, and methods and systems for their manufacture. In a first aspect, the precursor comprises a wrapper and at least one primary seal region of the wrapper. The reseal region comprises a cold-seal-adhesive-coated region and is configured to adhere to itself when pressed against itself. The cold-seal-adhesive-coated region can be located on an interior region of the wrapper that does not overlap the primary seal region, thereby avoiding interference with primary seals. The reseal region of the wrapper is configured to form at least a portion of a product containment surface of the package and at least a portion of a product-facing surface of the package. In a second aspect, the improved package precursor forms an improved resealable package for a product. In a third aspect, an assembly comprises the improved resealable package and a product contained by the package.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. An improved package precursor for an improved resealable package, wherein the precursor comprises: a wrapper; at least one primary seal region of the wrapper; a reseal region of the wrapper; and cold seal adhesive; wherein the wrapper comprises a product containment region for a product in the package, wherein the product containment region is configured to be at least a portion of a product containment surface of the package; wherein the product containment surface of the package consists of all portions of the package configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package while the package is initially unopened; wherein the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper is configured to form at least one primary seal of the package; wherein the reseal region is configured to adhere to itself when pressed against itself; wherein the reseal region comprises a cold-seal-adhesive-coated region, wherein the cold-seal-adhesive-coated region is coated with the cold seal adhesive; wherein the precursor is configured so that the cold seal adhesive that coats the reseal region forms (i) at least a portion of the product containment region of the wrapper, (ii) at least a portion of the product containment surface of the package while the package is initially unopened, and (iii) at least a portion of a product-facing surface of the package while the package is initially unopened.
2. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the precursor is configured to provide a roll of the wrapper, and wherein the roll comprises a plurality of precursors according to the precursor of claim 1.
3. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the at least one primary seal does not comprise cold seal adhesive.
4. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the cold seal adhesive, any solvent in the cold seal adhesive, one face of the precursor including the wrapper and the cold seal adhesive, or a combination thereof has an overall migration amount with respect to substances that can migrate from the precursor into the product, wherein the overall migration amount is equal to no more than 10 mg/dm2 over 10 days at 40° C. as determined according to testing method DIN EN 1186, Part 15, overall migration test, latest edition as of Aug. 8, 2016.
5. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the wrapper comprises a water vapor transmission rate (WVTR) equal to no more than 0.50 g/m2/24 hours, per ASTM F1249, latest edition as of Sep. 15, 2016, measured at a temperature of 38° C. and a relative humidity of 90%.
6. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the wrapper comprises an oxygen transmission rate (OTR) equal to no more than 28 cubic cm/m2/day as measured per ASTM D1434-82 (2015) e1.
7. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the cold seal adhesive provides a reseal closure that has a maximum seal strength value of at least 0.56 N/15 mm seal width and no more than 22 N/15 mm seal width, wherein the maximum seal strength value is the maximum seal strength value provided when a first cold seal layer with a corresponding first configuration as applied to the wrapper is pressed against a second cold seal layer with a corresponding second configuration as applied to the wrapper.
8. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the cold seal adhesive comprises an additive to reduce a smell, taste or both associated with the cold seal adhesive or wherein the cold seal adhesive comprises an additive to reduce or avoid transferring a smell, taste or both from the cold seal adhesive to the product.
9. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the reseal region of the wrapper is configured to provide resealability for the package after opening the at least one primary seal of the package, wherein the at least one primary seal of the package comprises the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper.
10. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the product containment surface comprises (i) a portion of an adhesive that coats the at least one primary seal region or (ii) a portion of the at least one primary seal region that is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package; and wherein the product containment surface is configured to provide a boundary for a product containment space within the package.
11. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the wrapper comprises: a first end, a second end opposite the first end, a first edge adjacent to the first end and the second end, and a second edge opposite the first edge and adjacent to the first end and the second end; wherein the at least one primary seal region comprises: a first end seal region adjacent to the first end, a second end seal region adjacent to the second end, a first longitudinal seal region adjacent to the first edge, and a second longitudinal seal region adjacent to the second edge; wherein the first end seal region is configured to a provide a first end seal for the package; wherein the second end seal region is configured to provide a second end seal for the package; and wherein the first longitudinal seal region and the second longitudinal seal region are configured to provide a longitudinal seal for the package.
12. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper comprises a thermoplastic; and wherein the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper can be sealed using heat to melt the wrapper in the at least one primary seal region to form the at least one primary seal.
13. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the cold seal adhesive applied to the cold-seal-adhesive-coated region is a water-based emulsion.
14. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the wrapper, the cold seal adhesive, the precursor, the package or combination thereof is safe for contact with a product intended for human consumption.
15. The precursor of claim 1, wherein the cold-seal-adhesive-coated region is coextensive with the reseal region.
16. The precursor of claim 1: wherein the product-facing surface of the package is configured to be a product-contacting surface of the package; and wherein the precursor is configured so that the product can potentially contact the product-contacting surface when the package is initially unopened.
17. The precursor of claim 1: wherein the product containment surface comprises (i) a portion of an adhesive that coats the at least one primary seal region and is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package or (ii) a portion of the at least one primary seal region that is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package.
18. An improved resealable package; wherein the package comprises: a precursor; a product-facing surface of the package; at least one primary seal of the package; and a product containment surface of the package; wherein the precursor comprises: a wrapper; at least one primary seal region of the wrapper; a reseal region of the wrapper; and cold seal adhesive; wherein the wrapper comprises a product containment region for a product in the package, wherein the product containment region is configured to be at least a portion of the product containment surface of the package; wherein the product containment surface of the package consists of all portions of the package configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package while the package is initially unopened; wherein the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper is configured to form the at least one primary seal of the package; wherein the reseal region is configured to adhere to itself when pressed against itself; wherein the reseal region comprises a cold-seal-adhesive-coated region, wherein the cold-seal-adhesive-coated region is coated with the cold seal adhesive; wherein the precursor is configured so that the cold seal adhesive that coats the reseal region forms (i) at least a portion of the product containment region of the wrapper, (ii) at least a portion of the product containment surface of the package while the package is initially unopened, and (iii) at least a portion of the product-facing surface of the package while the package is initially unopened; wherein the wrapper is adhered to itself along the at least one primary seal region of the wrapper to provide the at least one primary seal of the package and a product containment space within the package; wherein the product containment space within the package is bounded by the product-facing surface of the package, the product-facing surface of the package comprising any portion of at least one primary seal of the package that is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package.
19. An assembly comprising the package of claim 18 and the product contained by the package.
20. The improved resealable package of claim 18, wherein the package is configured so that, while the package is initially unopened, an entire boundary of the product containment space consists of the product containment surface of the package, the product containment surface comprising (i) a portion of an adhesive that coats the at least one primary seal of the package and is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package or (ii) a portion of the at least one primary seal region that is configured to contain and potentially contact the product in the package.
21. An assembly comprising the package of claim 20 and the product contained within the product containment space of the package.
</claims>
</document>
