<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FOXCONN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, I-HUA
KUO, CHIN-PIN
LIN, JUNG-YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71123998
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cloud device, terminal device, and method for classifying images
</title>

<abstract>
A cloud device, a terminal device, and an image classification system and method includes the terminal reading an image to be classified; transmitting an instruction of image classification to the cloud device; determining whether the instruction of image classification comprises an intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; performing the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result, when the instruction of image classification comprises intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; and transmitting the image classification result to the terminal device; performing the first partial operation to obtain the intermediate operation result, when the intermediate operation result is not contained in the instruction of image classification; transmitting the intermediate operation result to the terminal device; and performing the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A terminal device comprising: a first communication device configured to communicate with a cloud device; a first processor; and at least one first storage device storing an image classification model comprising a first partial operation and a second partial operation and one or more programs, when executed by the first processor, the one or more programs cause the first processor to: read an image to be classified; transmit an instruction of image classification to the cloud device, the instruction of image classification comprising the image or an intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; when the instruction of image classification comprises the image, the one or more programs further cause the first processor to: receive the intermediate operation result transmitted from the cloud device; and perform the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result; when the instruction of image classification comprises the intermediate operation result, the cloud server perform the second partial operation to obtain the image classification result, and the one or more programs further cause the first processor to: receive the image classification result of the second partial operation transmitted by the cloud device.
2. The terminal device of claim 1, wherein the image classification model is convolutional neural network model, the first partial operation comprises a plurality of convolution operation, and the second partial operation comprises a plurality of fully connected operation.
3. The terminal device of claim 1, wherein the terminal device further comprises a display device electrically connected to the processor, the one or more programs further cause the first processor to control the display device to display the image classification result.
4. The terminal device of claim 1, wherein after reading the image, the one or more programs further cause the first processor to: determine whether the terminal device is instructed to perform the first partial operation; and perform the first partial operation to obtain the intermediate operation result when the terminal device is instructed to perform the first partial operation.
5. The terminal device of claim 1, wherein the intermediate operation result is represented by a plurality of values.
6. A cloud device comprising: a second communication device configured to communicate with a terminal device; a second processor; and at least one second storage device storing an image classification model comprising a first partial operation and a second partial operation and one or more programs, when executed by the second processor, the one or more programs cause the second processor to: receive an instruction of image classification transmitted from the terminal device; determine whether the instruction of image classification comprises an intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; when the instruction of image classification comprises the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation, perform the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result; and transmit the image classification result to the terminal device; when the instruction of image classification does not comprise the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation, perform the first partial operation to obtain the intermediate operation result; transmit the intermediate operation result to the terminal device.
7. The cloud device of claim 6, wherein the image classification model is convolutional neural network model, the first partial operation comprises a plurality of convolution operation, and the second partial operation comprises three fully connected operation.
8. The cloud device of claim 7, wherein when the instruction of image classification does not comprise the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation, the one or more programs further cause the second processor to: determine whether the instruction of image classification comprises an instruction to perform only the first partial operation; if no instruction to perform only the first partial operation, perform the first partial operation and the second partial operation to obtain the image classification result.
9. The cloud device of claim 7, wherein the intermediate operation result is represented by a plurality of values.
10. A method for classifying images, applied in a terminal device and a cloud device, an image classification model being stored in the terminal device and the cloud device and comprising a first partial operation and a second partial operation, the image classification method comprising: reading, by the terminal device, an image to be classified; transmitting, by the terminal device, an instruction of image classification to the cloud device; determining, by the cloud device, whether the instruction of image classification comprises an intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; performing, by the cloud device, the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result, when the instruction of image classification comprises the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; and transmitting, by the cloud device, the image classification result to the terminal device; performing, by the cloud device, the first partial operation to obtain the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation, when the instruction of image classification does not comprise the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation; transmitting, by the cloud device, the intermediate operation result of the first partial operation to the terminal device; and performing, by the terminal device, the second partial operation to obtain an image classification result.
11. The image classification method of claim 10, wherein the image classification model is convolutional neural network model, the first partial operation comprises a plurality of convolution operation, and the second partial operation comprises three fully connected operation.
12. The image classification method of claim 10, wherein after reading the image, the method further comprises: determining, by the terminal device, whether the terminal device is instructed to perform the first partial operation; and performing, by the terminal device, the first partial operation to obtain the intermediate operation result when the terminal device is instructed to perform the first partial operation.
13. The image classification method of claim 10, wherein when the instruction of image classification does not comprise the intermediate operation result, the method further comprises: determining, by the cloud device, whether the instruction of image classification comprises an instruction to perform only the first partial operation; if no instruction to perform only the first partial operation, perform the first partial operation and the second partial operation to obtain the image classification result.
14. The image classification method of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: displaying the image classification result by the terminal device.
15. The image classification method of claim 10, wherein the intermediate operation result is represented by a plurality of values.
</claims>
</document>
