<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G11B20/00,G11B20/10,G11B27/11,G11B27/28,H04N5/913,H04N9/82
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAJJ-AHMAD, ADI
SU HUI
WU MIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62841659
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques to extract ENF signals from video image sequences exploiting the rolling shutter mechanism; and a new video synchronization approach by matching the ENF signals extracted from soundtracks and image sequences
</title>

<abstract>
Various systems and methods may benefit from determination of environmental signatures in recordings. For example, such signatures may aid forensic analysis and alignment of media recordings, such as alignment of audio or video recordings. A method can include extracting electric network frequency signals from an image sequence of a video recording or an audio recording. The method can also include synchronizing the video recording or the audio recording with at least one other datum based on the electric network frequency signals.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method, comprising: extracting electric network frequency signals from a video recording, wherein the extracting comprises taking a sample as a mean value for each row or column of an image frame of the video recording; and determining at least a time of recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting electric network frequency signals further comprises extracting electric network frequency signals from an image sequence of the video recording.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the location of the recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising segmenting the video and making the extracting and the determining on each segment of the video independently from each other segment of the video.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting electric network frequency signals comprises extracting electric network frequency signals from frames containing scenes of at least one moving object.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the extracting is limited to extraction from at least one static region of the video recording.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting electric network frequency signals further comprises compensating at least one brightness change in the video recording.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the compensating comprises applying a linear transformation to the video recording.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracting electric network frequency signals further comprises compensating at least one camera motion in the video recording.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the compensating comprises applying an optical flow to calculate a pixel displacement between frames of the video recording.
11. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to extract electric network frequency signals from a video recording or an audio recording, wherein the extracting comprises taking a sample as a mean value for each row or column of an image frame of the video recording; and determine at least a time of recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to extract electric network frequency signals from an image sequence of the video recording.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to determine the location of the recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to compensate at least one brightness change in the video recording.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to compensate by applying a linear transformation to the video recording.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to compensate at least one camera motion in the video recording.
17. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to segment the video and making the extracting and the determining on each segment of the video independently from each other segment of the video.
18. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including computer program code, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to extract electric network frequency signals from a video recording or an audio recording, wherein the electric network frequency signals extracted from the video recording are extracted from frames containing scenes of at least one moving object; and determine at least a time of recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to extract electric network frequency signals from an image sequence of the video recording.
20. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to determine the location of the recording of the video based on the electric network frequency signals.
21. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to compensate at least one brightness change in the video recording.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, cause the apparatus at least to compensate by applying a linear transformation to the video recording.
23. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to compensate at least one camera motion in the video recording.
24. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to, with the at least one processor, further cause the apparatus at least to segment the video and making the extracting and the determining on each segment of the video independently from each other segment of the video.
</claims>
</document>
