<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/2187,H04N21/45,H04N21/81,H04N5/232,H04N5/272
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAKSHIT, SARBAJIT K.
DEY, KUNTAL
Vadayadiyil Raveendran, Pramod
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73263948
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RECOMMENDING CAMERA SETTINGS FOR PUBLISHING A PHOTOGRAPH BASED ON IDENTIFIED SUBSTANCE
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the present invention disclose a method for generating recommendation to include advertisement substance in a photographic area. The method includes one or more processors identifying a photographic area of a camera. The method further includes determining whether the photographic area of the camera includes advertisement substance. The method further includes determining a modification to settings of the camera based on a positioning and focus of the advertisement substance within the photographic area of the camera. The method further includes determining a score corresponding to an image frame that applies the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying, by one or more processors, a photographic area of a camera; determining, by one or more processors, a location of advertisement substance with respect to the location of the photographic area utilizing settings of the camera; determining, by one or more processors, whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance; determining, by one or more processors, a modification to the settings of the camera based on the location of the advertisement substance within proximate to the photographic area of the camera, wherein the determining the modification to the settings of the camera further comprises: determining, by one or more processors, an amount of change in the settings of the camera, wherein the amount of change brings the advertisement substance into the photographic area of the camera; and determining, by one or more processors, a score corresponding to an image frame that applies the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by one or more processors, a notification for a user, wherein the notification includes an option to apply the determined modification to the settings of the camera and an indication of the determined score; initiating, by one or more processors, display of the generated notification on the camera; and in response to determining that the user accepts application of the determined modification to the settings of the camera, applying, by one or more processors, the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by one or more processors, whether the photographic area of the camera includes advertisement substance, wherein determining whether the photographic area includes advertisement substance further comprises: identifying, by one or more processors, an object of the photographic area, wherein the photographic area is selected from a group consisting of: a stored image and a frame of a live feed of a field of view of the camera; comparing, by one or more processors, the identified object to an object that is labeled as advertisement substance; and determining, by one or more processors, whether the identified object corresponds to the labeled object, wherein the labeled object is selected from a group consisting of: people, products, logos, events, and trademarks.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance, further comprises: determining, by one or more processors, a location of the camera; determining, by one or more processors, a location of the advertisement substance; and determining, by one or more processors, whether the advertisement substance is within a defined proximity to the location of the camera, based at least in apart the location of the advertisement substance, wherein the defined proximity corresponds to an optical range of the camera.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein settings of the camera are selected from a group consisting of: zoom level, focus level, or alignment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying a photographic area of the camera, further comprises: determining, by one or more processors, a geolocation of the camera; and determining, by one or more processors, a coordinate location of the photographic area of the camera based at least in part on the determined geolocation and settings of the camera.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein determining whether the advertisement substance is within the defined proximity to the location of the camera, further comprises: determining, by one or more processors, a defined area of the camera, wherein the defined area includes one or more sets of coordinates of an optical range of the camera; and determining, by one or more processors, whether the defined area of the camera includes the determined location of advertisement substance.
8. A computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a photographic area of a camera; program instructions to determine a location of advertisement substance with respect to the location of the photographic area utilizing settings of the camera; program instructions to determine whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance; program instructions to determine a modification to the settings of the camera based the location of the advertisement substance proximate to the photographic area of the camera, wherein the program instructions to determine the modification to the settings of the camera further comprises program instructions to: determine an amount of change in the settings of the camera, wherein the amount of change brings the advertisement substance into the photographic area of the camera; and program instructions to determine a score corresponding to an image frame that applies the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: generate a notification for a user, wherein the notification includes an option to apply the determined modification to the settings of the camera and an indication of the determined score; initiate display of the generated notification on the camera; and in response to determining that the user accepts application of the determined modification to the settings of the camera, apply the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: determine whether the photographic area of the camera includes advertisement substance, wherein program instructions to determine whether the photographic area includes advertisement substance further comprises program instructions to: identify an object of the photographic area, wherein the photographic area is selected from a group consisting of: a stored image and a frame of a live feed of a field of view of the camera; compare the identified object to an object that is labeled as advertisement substance; and determine whether the identified object corresponds to the labeled object, wherein the labeled object is selected from a group consisting of: people, products, logos, events, and trademarks.
11. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to determine whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance, further comprise program instructions to: determine a location of the camera; determine a location of the advertisement substance; and determine whether the advertisement substance is within a defined proximity to the location of the camera, based at least in apart the location of the advertisement substance, wherein the defined proximity corresponds to an optical range of the camera.
12. The computer program product of claim 8, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: wherein the settings of the camera are selected from a group consisting of: zoom level, focus level, or alignment.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein program instructions to identify a photographic area of the camera, further comprise program instructions, to: determine a geolocation of the camera; and determine a coordinate location of the photographic area of the camera based at least in part on the determined geolocation and settings of the camera.
14. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein program instructions to determine whether the advertisement substance is within the defined proximity to the location of the camera, further comprise program instructions to: determine a defined area of the camera, wherein the defined area includes one or more sets of coordinates of an optical range of the camera; and determine whether the defined area of the camera includes the determined location of advertisement substance.
15. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to identify a photographic area of a camera; program instructions to determine a location of advertisement substance with respect to the location of the photographic area utilizing settings of the camera; program instructions to determine whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance; program instructions to determine a modification to the settings of the camera based on the location of the advertisement substance proximate to the photographic area of the camera, wherein the program instructions to determine the modification to the settings of the camera further comprises program instructions to: determine an amount of change in the settings of the camera, wherein the amount of change brings the advertisement substance into the photographic area of the camera; and program instructions to determine a score corresponding to an image frame that applies the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
16. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, to: generate a notification for a user, wherein the notification includes an option to apply the determined modification to the settings of the camera and an indication of the determined score; initiate display of the generated notification on the camera; and in response to determining that the user accepts application of the determined modification to the settings of the camera, apply the determined modification to the settings of the camera.
17. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising program instructions to: determine whether the photographic area of the camera includes advertisement substance, wherein program instructions to determine whether the photographic area includes advertisement substance further comprises program instructions to: identify an object of the photographic area, wherein the photographic area is selected from a group consisting of: a stored image and a frame of a live feed of a field of view of the camera; compare the identified object to an object that is labeled as advertisement substance; and determine whether the identified object corresponds to the labeled object, wherein the labeled object is selected from a group consisting of: people, products, logos, events, and trademarks.
18. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to determine whether the photographic area of the camera is proximate to the advertisement substance, further comprise program instructions to: determine a location of the camera; determine a location of the advertisement substance; and determine whether the advertisement substance is within a defined proximity to the location of the camera, based at least in apart the location of the advertisement substance, wherein the defined proximity corresponds to an optical range of the camera.
19. The computer system of claim 15, wherein program instructions to identify a photographic area of the camera, further comprise program instructions to: determine a geolocation of the camera; and determine a coordinate location of the photographic area of the camera based at least in part on the determined geolocation and settings of the camera.
20. The computer system of claim 18, wherein program instructions to determine whether the advertisement substance is within the defined proximity to the location of the camera, further comprise program instructions to: determine a defined area of the camera, wherein the defined area includes one or more sets of coordinates of an optical range of the camera; and determine whether the defined area of the camera includes the determined location of advertisement substance.
</claims>
</document>
