<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/57,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS
SIEMENS
SIEMENS INDUSTRY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CRAWFORD, JOHN, W.
PFLEGER DE AGUIAR, LEANDRO
TSAO, TZU-HSIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55085899
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for passive assessment of industrial perimeter security
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for assessing and managing network security for a network includes retrieving topology data and network traffic data with a processor, where the topology data is indicative of a topology of the network. The method may further include retrieving, via the processor, network flow data from a plurality of network data collectors, generating, via the processor, an attack tree based on the topology data and the network flow data, updating a customer model database with the attack tree and the topology data, and outputting a security assessment based on the attack tree and the topology data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for assessing and managing network security for a network, comprising: retrieving topology data and network traffic data with a processor, wherein the topology data is indicative of a topology of the network; retrieving, via the processor, network flow data from a plurality of network data collectors; generating, via the processor, an attack tree based on the topology data and the network flow data; updating a customer model database with the attack tree and the topology data; and outputting a security assessment based on the attack tree and the topology data, wherein generating the attack tree comprises: parsing, via the processor, the topology data and the network flow data to determine a plurality of potential exploits in the network; parsing the network flow data, via the processor, to determine one or more network rules associated with a plurality of nodes in the topology of the network; calculating, via the processor, a risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits based on the one or more network rules and network flow data; and generating the attack tree based on the one or more network rules and the network flow data, wherein the attack tree comprises the plurality of potential exploits and the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein retrieving the topology data comprises receiving the topology data from a collector apparatus.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein retrieving the topology data comprises transmitting a prompt for user input of the topology data and receiving the topology data from a client responsive to the prompt.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein updating the customer model database comprises: updating, via the processor, a customer risk model record with the plurality of potential exploits in the network, the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits, and the attack tree.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein outputting the security assessment comprises: determining, via the processor, a risk mitigation recommendation comprising at least one recommended step for configuring the network.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein outputting the security assessment further comprises: monitoring the network, via the processor, to determine whether one or more network configurations is indicative of a heightened network security risk.
7. A system for assessing and managing network security for an industrial control system network comprising: a processor configured to: retrieve topology data and network traffic data, wherein the topology data is indicative of a topology of the network; retrieve network flow data from a plurality of network data collectors; generate an attack tree based on the topology data and the network flow data; update a customer model database with the attack tree and the topology data; and output a security assessment based on the attack tree and the topology data wherein generating the attack tree comprises: parsing, via the processor, the topology data and the network flow data to determine a plurality of potential exploits in the network; parsing the network flow data via the processor to determine one or more network rules associated with a plurality of nodes in the topology of the network; calculating, via the processor, a risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits based on the one or more network rules and network flow data; and generating the attack tree based on the one or more network rules and the network flow data, wherein the attack tree comprises the plurality of potential exploits and the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein retrieving topology data comprises transmitting a prompt for user input of the topology data and receiving the topology data from a client responsive to the prompt.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein retrieving topology data comprises receiving the topology data from a collector apparatus.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein updating the customer model database comprises: updating, via the processor, a customer risk model record with the plurality of potential exploits in the network, the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits, and the attack tree.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein outputting the security assessment comprises: determining, via the processor, a risk mitigation recommendation comprising at least one recommended step for configuring the network.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein outputting the security assessment further comprises: monitoring the network, via the processor, to determine whether one or more network configurations is indicative of a heightened network security risk.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium configured to store computer executable instructions that perform a method for assessing and managing an industrial control system network when executed by a processor, the method comprising: retrieving topology data with a processor, wherein the topology data is indicative of a topology of a network; retrieving, via the processor, network flow data from a plurality of network data collectors; generating, via the processor, an attack tree based on the topology data and the network flow data; updating a customer model database with the attack tree and the topology data; and outputting a security assessment based on the attack tree and the topology data, wherein generating the attack tree comprises: parsing, via the processor, the topology data and the network flow data to determine a plurality of potential exploits in the network; parsing the network flow data via the processor to determine one or more network rules associated with a plurality of nodes in the topology of the network; calculating, via the processor, a risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits based on the one or more network rules and network flow data; and generating the attack tree based on the one or more network rules and the network flow data, wherein the attack tree comprises the plurality of potential exploits and the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein retrieving the topology data comprises transmitting a prompt for user input of the topology data and receiving the topology data from a client responsive to the prompt.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein retrieving the topology data comprises receiving the topology data from a collector apparatus.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein updating the customer model database comprises: updating, via the processor, a customer risk model record with the plurality of potential exploits in the network, the risk probability associated with the plurality of potential exploits, and the attack tree.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein outputting the security assessment comprises: determining, via the processor, a risk mitigation recommendation comprising at least one recommended step for configuring the network.
</claims>
</document>
