<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06F16/955,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YANDEX EUROPE
</assignee>

<inventors>
EZEPOV, ILYA SERGEEVICH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65037242
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for generating a user-personalization interest parameter for identifying personalized targeted content item
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method of generating a user-personalization interest parameter is disclosed. The method comprises receiving, navigational history data associated with a browser application; generating, one or more navigational session transition patterns; for each navigational session transition pattern: truncating, each of the one or more URLs included within the navigational session transition pattern, to obtain a respective URL segment; generating, a respective vector value representative for each of the URL segments; assigning a weight value for each URL segments; determining a navigational profile value for the user, based on at least one vector value and the associated weight value; generating, the user-personalization interest parameter associated with the user based on the navigational profile value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of generating a user-personalization interest parameter, the method being executable on a server coupled to, via a communication network, a client device associated with a user, the client device configured to execute a browser application having previously accessed, via the communication network, at least one web resource during a pre-determined past period of time; the method comprising: receiving, by the server, navigational history data associated with the browser application, the navigational history data including one or more uniform resource locators (URLs) associated to a respective one of the at least one web resources; generating, based on the navigational history data, one or more navigational session transition patterns, a given navigational session transition pattern including at least one of the one or more URLs accessed by the browser application during a given past browsing session; for each navigational session transition pattern: truncating each of the one or more URLs included within the navigational session transition pattern to obtain a respective URL segment; generating, by a first machine learning algorithm, a respective vector value representative for each of the URL segments; the first machine learning algorithm having been trained to map the URL segments to respective vector values based on a co-occurrence of the URL segments within the navigational session transition pattern; assigning a weight value for each URL segment, wherein for a given URL segment, the weight value being determined based on at least one of a first value being inversely proportional to a frequency of the given URL segment in a log of URL segments associated with URLs visited by users of the server; a second value being based on a recentness of access to the URL associated with the given URL segment by the browser application; determining a navigational profile value for the user, based on at least one vector value and the associated weight value, the navigational profile value being associated with the user's navigational history data over a pre-determined period of time; and generating, by a second machine learning algorithm, the user-personalization interest parameter associated with the user based on the navigational profile value, the second machine learning algorithm having been trained to map a user's navigational profile value to at least one user-personalization interest parameter.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein truncating each of the one or more URLs comprises discarding at least one of: a first portion indicative of a hypertext transfer protocol for each of the one or more URLs; a second portion indicative of a path name for each of the one or more URLs; a third portion indicative of a file name for each of the one or more URLs; a fourth portion indicative of a top-level domain name for each of the one or more URLs; and a fifth portion indicative of a hostname, upon determination that the hostname is a world wide web (www) hostname.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the navigational history data further comprises an access time for each of the one or more URLs by the browser application, the one or more URLs having been previously stored in an order in accordance with the access time resulting in a list of URLs being chronologically organized.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the one or more navigational session transition patterns comprises parsing the chronologically sorted one or more URLs into the one or more navigational sessions based on its respective access times.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein parsing comprises applying a pre-determined period of time mask.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first machine learning algorithm executes a word2vec based algorithm.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the word2vec based algorithm is trained to project the URL segment into a multi-dimensional space such that the URL segments occurring within the same navigational session transition pattern are projected in proximity to each other in the multi-dimensional space.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the navigational profile value comprises: determining for each vector value associated with the navigational history data, a respective adjusted vector value, the respective adjusted vector value being calculated using an equation:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?Vadjusted=Vhost×W×N description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where: Vadjusted is the adjusted vector value for a given vector value; Vhost is the given vector value; W is the weight value associated with the given vector value; N is a number of occurrence for the domain level name associated with the given vector value in the navigational history data; and adding each of the determined adjusted vector values to obtain the navigational profile value.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the user-personalization interest parameter comprises one or more socio-demographic features, the one or more socio-demographic features comprising at least one of: an age range of the user; an income range of the user; a regional position of the user; and gender of the user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the server is configured to maintain a web service accessible by the browser application.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the navigational history data associated with the browser application is executed in response to the browser application accessing the web service.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the server further comprises a content database, the content database comprising one or more targeted content items, and wherein the method further comprises: determining, based on the user-personalization interest parameter, one or more targeted content items; and transmitting, the one or more targeted content items to the client device for display.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each of the one or more targeted content items has an associated item feature vector, and wherein determining the one or more targeted content items comprises matching the item feature vectors with the user-personalization interest parameter.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein matching the item feature vectors with the user-personalization interest parameter comprises projecting the item feature vectors and the user-personalization interest parameter into a second multi-dimensional space and identifying targeted content items located in a pre-determined proximity to the user-personalization interest parameter.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the one or more targeted content items comprise a banner ad.
16. A server coupled to a client device associated with a user via a communication network, the client device configured to execute a browser application having previously accessed, via the communication network, at least one web resource during a pre-determined past period of time, the server comprising: a network interface for communicatively coupling to the communication network; a processor coupled to the network interface, the processor configured to: receive, by the server, navigational history data associated with the browser application, the navigational history data including one or more uniform resource locators (URLs) associated to a respective one of the at least one web resources; generate, based on the navigational history data, one or more navigational session transition patterns, a given navigational session transition pattern including at least one of the one or more URLs accessed by the browser application during a given past browsing session; for each navigational session transition pattern: truncate each of the one or more URLs included within the navigational session transition pattern to obtain a respective URL segment; generate, by a first machine learning algorithm, a respective vector value representative for each of the URL segments; the first machine learning algorithm having been trained to map the URL segments to respective vector values based on a co-occurrence of the URL segments within the navigational session transition pattern; assign a weight value for each URL segment, wherein for a given URL segment, the weight value being determined based on at least one of a first value being inversely proportional to a frequency of the given URL segment in a log of URL segments associated with URLs visited by users of the server; a second value being based on a recentness of access to the URL associated with the given URL segment by the browser application; determine a navigational profile value for the user, based on at least one vector value and the associated weight value, the navigational profile value being associated with the user's navigational history data over a pre-determined period of time; and generate, by a second machine learning algorithm, the user-personalization interest parameter associated with the user based on the navigational profile value, the second machine learning algorithm having been trained to map a user's navigational profile value to at least one user-personalization interest parameter.
17. The server of claim 16, wherein to truncate each of the one or more URLs, the processor is configured to discard at least one of: a first portion indicative of a hypertext transfer protocol for each of the one or more URLs; a second portion indicative of a path name for each of the one or more URLs; a third portion indicative of a file name for each of the one or more URLs; a fourth portion indicative of a top-level domain name for each of the one or more URLs; and a fifth portion indicative of a hostname, upon determination that the hostname is a world wide web (www) hostname.
18. The server of claim 16, wherein: the navigational history data further comprises an access time for each of the one or more URLs by the browser application, the one or more URLs having been previously stored in an order in accordance with the access time resulting in a list of URLs being chronologically organized; and to generate the one or more navigational session transition patterns, the processor is configured to: parse the chronologically sorted one or more URLs into the one or more navigational sessions based on its respective access times.
19. The server of claim 16, wherein the first machine learning algorithm executes a word2vec based algorithm trained to project the URL segment into a multi-dimensional space such that the URL segments occurring within the same navigational session transition pattern are projected in proximity to each other in the multi-dimensional space.
20. The server of claim 16, wherein to determine the navigational profile value, the processor is configured to: determine for each vector value associated with the navigational history data, a respective adjusted vector value, the respective adjusted vector value being calculated using an equation:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?Vadjusted=Vhost×W×N description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? where: Vadjusted is the adjusted vector value for a given vector value; Vhost is the given vector value; W is the weight value associated with the given vector value; N is a number of occurrence for the domain level name associated with the given vector value in the navigational history data; and add each of the determined adjusted vector values to obtain the navigational profile value.
</claims>
</document>
