<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/51,G06F16/583,G06K9/62,G06N3/08,G06T7/11,G06T7/194
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU JUN
GAO PENG
HU, GUO QIANG
YAN, JUN CHI
HUANG, JING CHANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66095990
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object classification based on decoupling a background from a foreground of an image
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques facilitating object classification based on decoupling a background from a foreground of an image are provided. A system can comprise a memory that stores computer executable components and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory. The computer executable components can comprise a model that is trained on images that comprise respective backgrounds and respective foregrounds that are interleaved. The model can be trained to detect the respective backgrounds with a defined confidence level. The computer executable components can also comprise an extraction component that employs the model to identify a background of a received image based on the defined confidence level and to decouple a foreground object of the received image based on identification of the background of the received image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a model that is trained on images that comprise respective backgrounds and respective foregrounds that are interleaved, wherein the model is trained to detect the respective backgrounds with a defined confidence level, wherein the images comprise one or more templates that comprise a background meeting a defined criterion; and an extraction component that employs the model to identify a background of a received image based on the defined confidence level and to decouple a foreground object of the received image based on identification of the background of the received image, wherein the model is employed to compare the one or more templates to the received image to identify a portion of the received image that matches the one or more templates at the confidence level.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the model is a multi-channel classifier that classifies the received image into an object category, and wherein a training of the model increases a classification accuracy of the model.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the object category is statistically related to the background of the received image.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the model is trained to detect the respective backgrounds based on known background images.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the model is trained by placing the foreground object with the known background images.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the extraction component uses background recovery to decouple the foreground object from the background of the received image.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the received image is a single image not related to other received images.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a pattern component that performs a recovery of the background of the received image from repetitive patterns based on period detection, wherein the extraction component uses the recovery of the background to decouple the foreground object from the background of the received image.
9. A computer-implemented method, comprising: training, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, a model on identified images that comprise interleaved background portions and foreground portions, wherein the training comprises training the model to detect the background portions with a defined level of confidence, and wherein the identified images are one or more templates that comprise a background meeting a defined criterion; and identifying, by the system, a foreground object of a received image based on a detection of a background section of the received image based on the defined level of confidence, wherein the background section is detected based on the model, wherein the model is employed to compare the one or more templates to the received image to identify a portion of the received image that matches the one or more templates at the defined level of confidence.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the identifying the foreground object comprises removing, by the system, the background section from the received image.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying, by the system, the background section of the received image based on a repeated pattern associated with the background section.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying, by the system, the background section of the received image based on a reconstruction of the background section of the received image, wherein the reconstruction of the background section of the received image includes a portion of the background section of the received image obstructed by an object in a foreground of the received image, and wherein the reconstruction of the background increases a classification accuracy of the model.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein the reconstruction of the portion of the background section of the received image comprises using, by the system, machine learning to re-create the background section of the received image based on an image inpainting.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the training the model comprises training, by the system, the model to detect the backgrounds portions based on inputting into the model first images that comprise defined backgrounds.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: training, by the system, the model based on inputting second images that comprise foreground objects that obstruct respective areas of the defined backgrounds.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the model is a multi-channel classifier that classifies the received image into an object category.
17. A computer program product that facilitates object classification, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions are executable by a processor to cause the processor to: train a model on images that comprise backgrounds and foreground objects, wherein the images are templates that comprise a first background meeting a defined criterion, wherein the backgrounds and the foreground objects are interleaved, and wherein a training of the model is performed until the model detects the backgrounds at a level of confidence that satisfies a defined level of confidence; use the model to identify a second background of a received image based on the defined level of confidence; and decouple a foreground object of the received image based on the second background of the received image, and a comparison of the templates to the received image to identify a portion of the received image that matches the templates at the level of confidence that satisfies the defined level of confidence.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the model is a multi-channel classifier that classifies the received image into an object category.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions cause the processor to utilize background recovery to decouple the foreground object of the received image from the second background of the received image.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the program instructions cause the processor to: perform a recovery of the second background from repetitive patterns based on period detection; and use the recovery of the second background to decouple the foreground object of the received image from the second background.
</claims>
</document>
