<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/06,G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G11C11/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MODHA, DHARMENDRA S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50275502
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Structural plasticity in spiking neural networks with symmetric dual of an electronic neuron
</title>

<abstract>
A neural system comprises multiple neurons interconnected via synapse devices. Each neuron integrates input signals arriving on its dendrite, generates a spike in response to the integrated input signals exceeding a threshold, and sends the spike to the interconnected neurons via its axon. The system further includes multiple noruens, each noruen is interconnected via the interconnect network with those neurons that the noruen's corresponding neuron sends its axon to. Each noruen integrates input spikes from connected spiking neurons and generates a spike in response to the integrated input spikes exceeding a threshold. There can be one noruen for every corresponding neuron. For a first neuron connected via its axon via a synapse to dendrite of a second neuron, a noruen corresponding to the second neuron is connected via its axon through the same synapse to dendrite of the noruen corresponding to the first neuron.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: in a neurosynaptic system comprising a first network of neurons interconnected via a first set of synapse devices and a second network of noruens interconnected via a second set of synapse devices: selecting a temporal window; identifying a neuron of the first network of neurons that spikes during the temporal window, wherein each neuron of the first network of neurons corresponds to a noruen of the second network of noruens, and the corresponding noruen comprises a symmetric dual of the neuron; and updating synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the neuron and synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen based on whether the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the updating comprises: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the updating comprises: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen do not spike together during the temporal window.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a type of outcome represented by the spiking of the neuron during the temporal window, wherein the type of outcome is one of a desirable event or an undesirable event.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is a desirable event.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is an undesirable event.
7. A system comprising a computer processor, a computer-readable hardware storage device, and program code embodied with the computer-readable hardware storage device for execution by the computer processor to implement a method comprising: in a neurosynaptic system comprising a first network of neurons interconnected via a first set of synapse devices and a second network of noruens interconnected via a second set of synapse devices: selecting a temporal window; identifying a neuron of the first network of neurons that spikes during the temporal window, wherein each neuron of the first network of neurons corresponds to a noruen of the second network of noruens, and the corresponding noruen comprises a symmetric dual of the neuron; and updating synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the neuron and synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen based on whether the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the updating comprises: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the updating comprises: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen do not spike together during the temporal window.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein the method further comprises: determining a type of outcome represented by the spiking of the neuron during the temporal window, wherein the type of outcome is one of a desirable event or an undesirable event.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is a desirable event.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the method further comprises: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is an undesirable event.
13. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable hardware storage device having program code embodied therewith, the program code being executable by a computer to implement a method comprising: in a neurosynaptic system comprising a first network of neurons interconnected via a first set of synapse devices and a second network of noruens interconnected via a second set of synapse devices: selecting a temporal window; identifying a neuron of the first network of neurons that spikes during the temporal window, wherein each neuron of the first network of neurons corresponds to a noruen of the second network of noruens, and the corresponding noruen comprises a symmetric dual of the neuron; and updating synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the neuron and synaptic weights of synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen based on whether the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
14. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the updating comprises: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen spike together during the temporal window.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the updating comprises: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the neuron and the corresponding noruen do not spike together during the temporal window.
16. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: determining a type of outcome represented by the spiking of the neuron during the temporal window, wherein the type of outcome is one of a desirable event or an undesirable event.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: strengthening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is a desirable event.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: weakening the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the neuron and the synaptic weights of the synapse devices connected to the corresponding noruen in response to determining the type of outcome is an undesirable event.
</claims>
</document>
