<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/53,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06Q10/08,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STANDARD COGNITION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FISHER, JORDAN E.
GREEN, WARREN
SUSWAL, MICHAEL S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67476838
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Directional impression analysis using deep learning
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and techniques are provided for detecting gaze direction of subjects in an area of real space. The system receives a plurality of sequences of frames of corresponding fields of view in the real space. The system uses sequences of frames in a plurality of sequences of frames to identify locations of an identified subject and gaze directions of the subject in the area of real space over time. The system includes logic having access to a database identifying locations of items in the area of real space. The system identifies items in the area of real space matching the identified gaze directions of the identified subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for detecting gaze direction of subjects in an area of real space, comprising: a processing system receiving a plurality of sequences of frames of corresponding fields of view in the real space, including: logic that uses sequences of frames in the plurality of sequences of frames to identify locations of an identified subject and gaze directions of the subject in the area of real space over time, and logic having access to a database identifying locations of items in the area of real space, that identifies items in the area of real space matching the identified gaze directions of the identified subject, wherein the logic that uses sequences of frames in the plurality of sequences of frames to identify locations of the identified subject and gaze directions includes: image recognition engines, which process the sequences of frames to generate corresponding arrays of joint data structures and to identify sets of joints as subjects in the real space; and logic, using joints in the sets of joints, to determine the gaze directions of the subject.
2. The system of claim 1, further including logic that calculates distances of the identified subject from items having locations matching the identified gaze directions and said logic that identifies times utilizes the calculated distances.
3. The system of claim 1, further including logic that determines lengths of time for which the subject maintains respective gaze directions and stores the determined lengths of times.
4. The system of claim 1, further including logic that stores information including subject identifiers and item identifiers for the identified gaze directions.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the logic that uses sequences of frames in the plurality of sequences of frames to identify locations of an identified subject and gaze directions of the identified subject includes: logic that defines the gaze directions as planes orthogonal to a floor in the area of real space, the plane including a vector corresponding to the gaze direction of the identified subject; and the logic that identifies items in the area of real space matching the identified gaze directions of the subject identifies items mapped to inventory locations intersected by the plane.
6. The system of claim 1, further including inventory display structures in the area of real space, the inventory display structures comprising inventory locations matched with cells in the area of real space in the database, and a database identifying inventory locations of items in the area of real space with cells in the area of real space.
7. The system of claim 3, the processing system including logic to accumulate a plurality of data sets each including locations of the identified subject, gaze directions of the subject, items in area of real space matching the identified gaze directions, distances of identified subjects from items, the determined lengths of times and store the accumulated data sets in the database configured for use to analyze the data to correlate a particular element of a plurality of data sets with other elements in the plurality of data sets related to the particular element.
8. The system of claim 7, further including, logic to correlate a particular item of a plurality of data sets with identified subjects in the plurality of data sets related to the particular item and display on a user interface a graphical construct indicating correlations of the particular item to the plurality of identified subjects in multiple locations in the area of real space.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the logic that correlates the particular item of the plurality of data sets with identified subjects in the plurality of data sets related to the particular item includes logic that determines a count of the identified subjects related to the particular item.
10. The system of claim 7, further including logic to correlate a particular identified subject of the plurality of data sets with items in the plurality of data sets related to the particular subject and display on a user interface a graphical construct indicating the lengths of time for which items are in the gaze directions of the particular identified subject.
11. A system for detecting gaze direction of subjects in an area of real space, comprising: a processing system receiving a plurality of sequences of frames of corresponding fields of view in the real space, including: logic that uses sequences of frames in the plurality of sequences of frames to identify locations of an identified subject includes logic that processes the sequences of frames to generate corresponding arrays of joint data structures and to identify sets of joints as subjects in the real space; logic using joints in the sets of joints, to identify gaze directions of the subject; and logic having access to a database identifying locations of items in the area of real space, that identifies items in the area of real space matching the identified gaze directions of the identified subject.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the logic, that uses joints in the sets of joints, to determine the gaze directions of the subject, includes logic to use neck and shoulder joints of the identified subject to determine the gaze directions of the subject.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the logic, that uses joints in the sets of joints, to determine the gaze directions of the subject, includes logic that defines a vector corresponding to the gaze direction of the identified subject as normal to a plane formed by neck and shoulder joints of the identified subject.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising: logic that defines gaze directions as planes orthogonal to a floor in the area of real space, the plane including the vector corresponding to the gaze direction of the identified subject; and the logic that identifies items in the area of real space matching the identified gaze directions of the subject identifies items mapped to inventory locations intersected by the plane.
</claims>
</document>
