<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAHMUD, JALAL U.
XU, ANBANG
LIU, HAIBIN
SINHA, VIBHA S.
AKKIRAJU, RAMA K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62021629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for recommending products to bridge gaps between desired and actual personal branding
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and a computer program product are provided for making product recommendations to improve a user's personal brand by using the symbolic meanings and utilities of products and a user's brand perceptions along with users input of a desired personal brand imagery to output a set of products that are optimized to help users bridge the gaps between their desired and actual self-brand, thereby enabling a user to navigate products that shape their personal imagery.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of enabling personal branding, the method comprising: receiving, by the information handling system comprising a processor and a memory, product information for a set of products, the product information comprising product descriptions, product categories, review ratings, and discussions related to the products on social media; receiving, by the information handling system, user information from one or more users, the user information comprising user behavior data collected from social media and personal devices associated with the one or more users; analyzing, by the information handling system, the user information to identify an actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for a first user and to calculate one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user; analyzing, by the information handling system, the product information to identify a product brand personality for each product in the set of products; and outputting, by the information handling system, visual information identifying the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user along with a set of product recommendations having corresponding product brand personalities to bridge the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user.
2. The method of claim 1, where analyzing the user information comprises: establishing a mapping between a human personality and a brand personality measure; calculating, by the information handling system, a human personality measure for the first user; transforming, by the information handling system, the human personality measure for the first user to the actual self-brand for the first user based on the mapping so as to be in a shared dimensional space with the desired self-brand for the first user; and calculating, by the information handling system, at least one gap value between the actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for the first user.
3. The method of claim 2, where establishing the mapping between the human personality and the brand personality measure comprises: collecting, by the information handling system, purchase history data and behavior data from a plurality of users; computing, by the information handling system, product brand personality data for products purchased by the plurality of users; computing, by the information handling system, human personality data for the plurality of users; and applying, by the information handling system, the human personality data and the products brand personality data to a model to learn mapping coefficients for the mapping between the human personality and the brand personality measure.
4. The method of claim 3, where computing product brand personality data comprises: collecting, by the information handling system, survey data regarding product brand personality at a product level along with corresponding product information from a small set of products; and training, by the information handling system, one or more predictive models to predict a product's perceived brand personality from product information for the product.
5. The method of claim 1, where outputting the set of product recommendations comprises: searching, by the information handling system, a product database for candidate products associated with the one or more gaps; and generating, by the information handling system, an optimized set of products for bridging one or more gaps.
6. The method of claim 5, where searching the product database for candidate products comprises: computing, by the information handling system, a product brand personality for each product in the product database; computing, by the information handling system, a distance between each product brand personality and the desired self-brand for the first user; and generating, by the information handling system, a pool of product candidates based on the distance.
7. The method of claim 5, where generating the optimized set of products comprises optimizing a set of products by considering the product brand personality for each product in the product database along with interaction effects of between said product brand personalities.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising predicting, by the information handling system, a desired self-brand for the first user based on user information for the first user.
9. The method of claim 1, where outputting visual information comprises displaying, by the information handling system, a severity rating for each of the one or more gaps.
10. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on an information handling system, causes the system to recommend one or more products to bridge gaps between desired and actual personal branding by: receiving user information from one or more users, the user information comprising user behavior data collected from social media and personal devices associated with the one or more users; analyzing the user information to identify an actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for a first user and to calculate one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user; analyzing the product information to identify a product brand personality for each product in the set of products; and outputting visual information identifying the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user along with a set of product recommendations having corresponding product brand personalities to bridge the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on the system, causes the system to analyze the user information by: establishing a mapping between a human personality and a brand personality measure; calculating a human personality measure for the first user; transforming the human personality measure for the first user to the actual self-brand for the first user based on the mapping so as to be in a shared dimensional space with the desired self-brand for the first user; and calculating at least one gap value between the actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for the first user.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on the system, causes the system to output the set of product recommendations by: searching a product database for candidate products associated with the one or more gaps; and generating an optimized set of products for bridging one or more gaps.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on the system, causes the system to predict a desired self-brand for the first user based on user information for the first user.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on the system, causes the system to receive a desired self-brand for the first user which is selected from a set of representative self-brands.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on the system, causes the system to output visual information by displaying, by the information handling system, a severity rating for each of the one or more gaps.
16. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; a set of instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors to recommend one or more products to bridge gaps between desired and actual personal branding, wherein the set of instructions are executable to perform actions of: receiving, by the system comprising a processor and a memory, product information for a set of products, the product information comprising product descriptions, product categories, review ratings, and discussions related to the products on social media; receiving, by the system, user information from one or more users, the user information comprising user behavior data collected from social media and personal devices associated with the one or more users; analyzing, by the system, the user information to identify an actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for a first user and to calculate one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user; analyzing, by the system, the product information to identify a product brand personality for each product in the set of products; and outputting, by the system, visual information identifying the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user along with a set of product recommendations having corresponding product brand personalities to bridge the one or more gaps between the actual self-brand and the desired self-brand for the first user.
17. The information handling system of claim 16, where analyzing the user information comprises: establishing a mapping between a human personality and a brand personality measure; calculating a human personality measure for the first user; transforming the human personality measure for the first user to the actual self-brand for the first user based on the mapping so as to be in a shared dimensional space with the desired self-brand for the first user; and calculating at least one gap value between the actual self-brand and a desired self-brand for the first user.
18. The information handling system of claim 16, where outputting the set of product recommendations comprises: searching, by the information handling system, a product database for candidate products associated with the one or more gaps; and generating, by the information handling system, an optimized set of products for bridging one or more gaps.
19. The information handling system of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions are executable to predict a desired self-brand for the first user based on user information for the first user.
20. The information handling system of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions are executable to receive a desired self-brand for the first user which is selected from a set of representative self-brands.
21. The information handling system of claim 16, wherein the set of instructions are executable to display a severity rating for each of the one or more gaps.
</claims>
</document>
