<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06N20/00,G06N20/10,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASKEW, WILLIAM SPENCER
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASKEW, WILLIAM SPENCER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69528411
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems, methods, and apparatuses for optimizing outcomes in a multi-factor system
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for optimizing outcomes in multi-factor systems are described. Business process management, consulting intelligence, business intelligence, mobile intelligence, artificial intelligence, machine learning, and transportation management are integrated, as discussed herein, for optimizing transportation and logistics processes. Users may input legacy knowledge and data such as text, numbers, formulas, algorithms, and automated processes into a computing system for providing the system with industry insights for intelligently analyzing situation contexts, or the system may leverage third-party data. The system may suggest recommended actions based on analyzed situation contexts, and the system may furthermore execute various actions for responding to the situation contexts. The system may be configured to automatically analyze situation contexts and furthermore automatically execute various actions for responding to the situation contexts. In particular embodiments, the system is a software service and may integrate with various computing devices and operating systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for optimizing outcomes in logistics workflows via a self-service computer application at an electronic computing device, comprising the steps of: receiving a request for identifying a logistics task for optimization, wherein the electronic computing device is running the self-service computer application and the self-service computer application modifies a display at the electronic computing device to present one or more task advisor tickets, wherein the one or more task advisor tickets: visually overlay at least a portion of a self-service computer application graphical user interface ("GUI"), wherein the one or more task advisor tickets are slidably-exposed onto the GUI, and wherein the one or more task advisor tickets are otherwise not visible until being slidably-exposed onto the GUI; and comprise computer implementable logic for processing the request; identifying: the logistics task for optimization based on the one or more task advisor tickets, wherein the logistics task comprises one or more task parameters; and based on the identified logistics task and its respective task advisor ticket, one or more task analyzers for processing the optimization of the identified logistics task, wherein the one or more task analyzers correspond to the respective task advisor ticket and comprise computer-implementable logic for processing the optimization; in response to identifying the one or more task analyzers, retrieving logistics task data corresponding to the identified logistics task; determining, via the one or more task analyzers, an optimized logistics outcome, wherein determining the optimized logistics outcome comprises applying the logistics task data and the one or more task parameters to a plurality of potential outcomes, wherein the potential outcomes are included in a data set comprising historical data relating to prior logistics task data, prior task parameters, and prior outcomes; modifying the self-service computer application GUI, wherein modifying the self-service computer application GUI comprises contextually representing the optimized logistics outcome within the one or more task advisor tickets as one or more selectable logistics actions by slidably exposing the one or more task advisor tickets comprising the one or more selectable logistics actions onto the GUI; receiving a selected logistics action; and initiating the selected logistics action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the logistics task is identifiable from a group comprising shipments, deliveries, manufacturing schedules, and payment schedules.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more task parameters comprises routes, time frames, prices, personnel requirements, and weather factors corresponding to the logistics task.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the logistics task data comprises real-time data, historical data, user-supplied data, and third-party data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying a logistics task for optimization further comprises automatically analyzing changes to the one or more task parameters via machine learning techniques comprising supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data set is refined via machine learning techniques comprising supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a user is physically proximate to and engaging with the self-service computer application graphical user interface ("GUI").
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the user selects the logistics action.
9. A system comprising an electronic computing device configured for optimizing outcomes in logistics workflows via a self-service computer application, the electronic computing device comprising one or more processors operable to: receive a request for identifying a logistics task for optimization, wherein the electronic computing device is running the self-service computer application and the self-service computer application modifies a display at the electronic computing device to present one or more task advisor tickets, wherein the one or more task advisor tickets: visually overlay at least a portion of a self-service computer application graphical user interface ("GUI"), wherein the one or more task advisor tickets are slidably-exposed onto the GUI, and wherein the one or more task advisor tickets are otherwise not visible until being slidably-exposed onto the GUI; and comprise computer implementable logic for processing the request; identify: the logistics task for optimization based on the one or more task advisor tickets, wherein the logistics task comprises one or more task parameters; and based on the identified logistics task and its respective task advisor ticket, one or more task analyzers for processing the optimization of the identified logistics task, wherein the one or more task analyzers correspond to the respective task advisor ticket and comprise computer-implementable logic for processing the optimization; in response to identifying the one or more task analyzers, retrieve logistics task data corresponding to the identified logistics task; determine, via the one or more task analyzers, an optimized logistics outcome, wherein determining the optimized logistics outcome comprises applying the logistics task data and the one or more task parameters to a plurality of potential outcomes, wherein the potential outcomes are included in a data set comprising historical data relating to prior logistics task data, prior task parameters, and prior outcomes; modify the self-service computer application GUI, wherein modifying the self-service computer application GUI comprises contextually representing the optimized logistics outcome within the one or more task advisor tickets as one or more selectable logistics actions by slidably exposing the one or more task advisor tickets comprising the one or more selectable logistics actions onto the GUI; receive a selected logistics action; and initiate the selected logistics action.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the logistics task is identifiable from a group comprising shipments, deliveries, manufacturing schedules, and payment schedules.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more task parameters comprises routes, time frames, prices, personnel requirements, and weather factors corresponding to the logistics task.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the logistics task data comprises real-time data, historical data, user-supplied data, and third-party data.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein identifying a logistics task for optimization further comprises automatically analyzing changes to the one or more task parameters via machine learning techniques comprising supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the data set is refined via machine learning techniques comprising supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein a user is physically proximate to and engaging with the self-service computer application graphical user interface ("GUI").
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the user selects the logistics action.
</claims>
</document>
