<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/30,G01J5/00,G06T7/136,G08B17/12,G08B21/04,H04N5/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
MENSAH, WILLIAM WIREKO
ElDelgawy, Ramy Samir Aziz
Sulucz, Adam
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73464357
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Property control and configuration based on thermal imaging
</title>

<abstract>
A monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property is disclosed. The monitoring system includes a thermal camera that is configured to generate a thermal image of the property. The monitoring system further includes a monitor control unit that is configured to receive, from the thermal camera, the thermal image. The monitor control unit is further configured to, based on the thermal image, determine a temperature of a portion of the property depicted in the thermal image. The monitor control unit is further configured to determine that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies a temperature threshold. The monitor control unit is further configured to, based on determining that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies the temperature threshold, select and perform a monitoring system action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property, the monitoring system comprising: a thermal camera that is configured to generate a thermal image of the property, the thermal camera being mounted to a robotic device; and a monitor control unit that is configured to: receive, from the thermal camera, the thermal image; based on the thermal image, determine a temperature of a portion of the property depicted in the thermal image; determine that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies a temperature threshold; and based on determining that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies the temperature threshold, select and perform a monitoring system action, wherein the monitoring system action is an action to interrupt power delivery to an electric device that is located at the property.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising: a sensor that is configured to generate sensor data that reflects an attribute of the property, wherein selecting the monitoring system action is based on the sensor data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine an arming status of the monitoring system, wherein selecting the monitoring system action is based on the arming status of the monitoring system.
4. The system of claim 1, comprising: a thermostat that is configured to generate temperature data that reflects an ambient temperature inside the property, wherein the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image is based on the temperature data.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the action to interrupt power delivery to the electric device comprises: identifying a circuit breaker powering the electric device; and tripping the circuit breaker powering the electric device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system action is an action to activate an electric device that is located at the property and that, upon activation, mitigates a condition depicted in the thermal image.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system action is an action that generates and transmits a notification to a resident of the property indicating the condition depicted in the thermal image.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the thermal camera is configured to generate location data that indicates a location of the thermal camera within the property, and the monitor control unit is configured to: receive, from the thermal camera, the location data; and determine the temperature threshold based on the location data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitor control unit is configured to: determine a temperature of a portion of the property depicted in the thermal image by determining the temperature of portion of the property that includes a resident of the property, wherein the monitoring system action comprises adjusting a setting of a thermostat of the property.
10. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a monitoring system that is configured to monitor a property and from a thermal camera that is located at the property, a thermal image, the thermal camera being mounted to a robotic device; based on the thermal image, determining, by the monitoring system, a temperature of a portion of the property depicted in the thermal image; determining, by the monitoring system, that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies a temperature threshold; and based on determining that the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image satisfies the temperature threshold, selecting and performing, by the monitoring system, a monitoring system action, wherein the monitoring system action is an action to interrupt power delivery to an electric device that is located at the property.
11. The method of claim 10, comprising: receiving, by the monitoring system and from a sensor, sensor data that reflects an attribute of the property, wherein selecting the monitoring system action is based on the sensor data.
12. The method of claim 10, comprising: determining, by the monitoring system, an arming status of the monitoring system, wherein selecting the monitoring system action is based on the arming status of the monitoring system.
13. The method of claim 10, comprising: receiving, by the monitoring system and from a thermostat, temperature data that reflects an ambient temperature inside the property, wherein the temperature of the portion of the property depicted in the thermal image is based on the temperature data.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the action to interrupt power delivery to the electric device comprises: identifying, by the monitoring system, a circuit breaker powering the electric device; and tripping, by the monitoring system, the circuit breaker powering the electric device.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the monitoring system action is an action to activate an electric device that is located at the property and that, upon activation, mitigates a condition depicted in the thermal image.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the monitoring system action is an action that generates and transmits a notification to a resident of the property indicating the condition depicted in the thermal image.
17. The method of claim 10, comprising: receiving, by the monitoring system and from the thermal camera, location data that indicates a location of the thermal camera within the property; and determining, by the monitoring system, the temperature threshold based on the location data.
18. The method of claim 10, comprising: determining a temperature of a portion of the property depicted in the thermal image by determining the temperature of portion of the property that includes a resident of the property, wherein the monitoring system action comprises adjusting a setting of a thermostat of the property.
</claims>
</document>
