<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-04-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/30,F24F11/47,F24F120/10,F24F130/20,G05B15/02,G05B19/042,G05B19/048,G06F119/06,G06F17/11,G06F17/50,G06F30/13,G06F30/20,H05B33/08,H05B37/02,H05B45/20,H05B47/105,H05B47/11,H05B47/155,H05B47/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUNTRACKER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASHDOWN, IAN
SCOTT, WALLACE JAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59226254
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for the optimization of radiance modelling and controls in predictive daylight harvesting
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, an expected sky condition is calculated for a geographic location, a time of day, and a date based on a mathematical model. A predicted distribution of direct and interreflected solar radiation within the environment is calculated based on the expected sky condition. Measurement data from one or more photosensors is obtained that provides measurements of an initial distribution of direct and interreflected radiation within the environment, including radiation from solar and electrical lighting sources. A target distribution of direct and interreflected artificial electromagnetic radiation produced by electrical lighting is determined, based on the measurement data and the predicted distribution of direct and interreflected solar radiation, to achieve the target distribution of direct and interreflected radiation within the environment. Output parameters are set to one or more devices to modify the initial distribution to achieve the target distribution of direct and interreflected radiation within the environment, including diffusion characteristics of the materials between environments.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A predictive daylight harvesting method comprising the steps of: reading, by a controller, input data from one or more sensors and information feeds, the sensors and information feeds including daylight photosensors, occupancy sensors, timers, personal lighting controls, weather report feeds, and energy storage controllers, the occupancy sensors being located in a building's interior environment; calculating, by the controller, effects of variable building design parameters on the building's environmental characteristics; determining, by the controller, diffusion properties of a transition surface between an exterior environment and the interior environment of the building; outputting, by the controller, controller command signals in order to maximize an optimal light distribution in the building while maintaining selected occupant requirements for the building's environmental characteristics; accessing, by the controller, virtual representations of the transition surface and the building's exterior and interior environments, including geometry and material properties of objects that influence a distribution of daylight, diffused light, and artificial luminous flux within the exterior and interior environments; using, by the controller, the virtual representations to generate the controller command signals; and receiving and processing, by the controller, information about luminaires located in the building's interior environment, including photometric and electrical properties of the luminaires, and using, by the controller, the information to generate the controller command signals; learning, by a fuzzy-logic inference engine, weather patterns and occupant preferences; maintaining, by the controller, a mathematical model of sky conditions, historical weather data, a database of the weather patterns and the occupant preferences, and a database of diffusion material properties; continually reading, by the controller, data from external input and communication devices; calculating, by the controller, optimal settings for the luminaires and fenestration devices; and controlling, by the controller, the luminaires and the fenestration devices to achieve maximal energy savings while providing an interior luminous environment that is consistent with predefined goals and the occupant preferences.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the controller uses, to generate the controller command signals, an attribute transferred from: a virtual exterior element, in a virtual representation of the exterior environment, closest to a point on a virtual representation of the transition surface; to a virtual interior element, in a virtual representation of the interior environment, closest to the point.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said transferred attribute is luminous or radiant flux, comprised of a flux of an exterior ray in a first direction from the closest virtual exterior element to the point times a diffusion parameter of an interior ray in a second direction from the point to the closest virtual interior element.
4. The method claim 3, wherein diffusion characteristics of the virtual representation of the transition surface are determined from an analytic calculation of the diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface.
5. The method claim 3, wherein the diffusion characteristics of the virtual representation of the transition surface are determined from measured diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface are dependent on a wavelength range of incident light on the transition surface.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the wavelength range includes ultraviolet radiation.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the wavelength range includes infrared radiation.
9. A predictive daylight harvesting system, comprising a controller that: reads input data from one or more sensors and information feeds, the sensors and information feeds including daylight photosensors, occupancy sensors, timers, personal lighting controls, weather report feeds, and energy storage controllers, the occupancy sensors being located in a building's interior environment; calculates effects of variable building design parameters on the building's environmental characteristics; determines diffusion properties of a transition surface between an exterior environment and the interior environment of the building; outputs controller command signals in order to maximize an optimal light distribution in the building while maintaining selected occupant requirements for the building's environmental characteristics; includes virtual representations of the transition surface and the building's exterior and interior environments, including geometry and material properties of objects that influence a distribution of daylight, diffused light, and artificial luminous flux within the exterior and interior environments, wherein the virtual representations are accessed and used by the controller to generate the controller command signals; and receives and processes information about luminaires located in the building's interior environment, including photometric and electrical properties of the luminaires, and uses the information to generate the controller command signals; wherein the predictive daylight harvesting system further comprises a fuzzy-logic inference engine that learns weather patterns and occupant preferences; wherein the controller: maintains a mathematical model of sky conditions, historical weather data, a database of weather patterns and occupant preferences, and a database of diffusion material properties; continually reads data from external input and communication devices; calculates optimal settings for the luminaires and fenestration devices; and controls the luminaires and the fenestration devices to achieve maximal energy savings while providing an interior luminous environment that is consistent with predefined goals and the occupant preferences; wherein the predictive daylight harvesting system further comprises a daylight harvesting lighting modelling system comprising: a logic subsystem; and a storage subsystem storing computer readable instructions, which, when executed by the logic subsystem, cause the daylight harvesting lighting modelling system to: assign diffusion characteristics to the virtual representation of the transition surface ("virtual transition surface") based on diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface; assign a unique identifier to each virtual exterior element in the virtual representation of the exterior environment ("virtual exterior environment") and to each virtual interior element in the virtual representation of the interior environment ("virtual interior environment"); select a first set of directions in a half-space defined by the virtual transition surface, the diffusion characteristics, and the virtual exterior environment; select a second set of directions in an opposing half-space defined by the virtual transition surface, the diffusion characteristics, and the virtual interior environment; choose a position on the virtual transition surface for each of the first set of directions; select a first direction from the first set of directions; and for the first direction: trace an exterior ray from the chosen position on the virtual transition surface in the first direction to the closest virtual exterior element; assign the unique identifier of said closest virtual exterior element to the exterior ray; select a second direction from the second set of directions; trace an interior ray from the chosen position on the virtual transition surface in the second direction to the closest virtual interior element; assign the unique identifier of said closest virtual exterior element as an attribute to said closest virtual interior element; and indirectly determine another element attribute transferred from said closest virtual exterior element to said closest virtual interior element by way of the unique identifier of said closest virtual exterior element.
10. The predictive daylight harvesting system of claim 9, wherein the other element attribute transferred from said closest virtual exterior element to said closest virtual interior element is luminous or radiant flux, comprised of a flux of the exterior ray in the first direction times a diffusion parameter of the interior ray in the second direction.
11. The predictive daylight harvesting system of claim 9, wherein: the diffusion characteristics are determined from an analytic calculation of the diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface or from measured diffusion properties of the transition surface material; the diffusion properties of the transition surface material are dependent on a wavelength range of incident light on the transition surface; and the wavelength range includes ultraviolet radiation, infrared radiation or both ultraviolet and infrared radiation.
12. A predictive daylight harvesting method comprising the steps of: reading, by a controller, input data from a sensor, an information feed, an energy storage controller or any combination thereof; receiving, by the controller, photometric and electrical information about a luminaire in the building; calculating, by the controller, effects of variable building design parameters on an interior environment of the building; determining, by the controller, diffusion properties of a transition surface between an exterior environment and the interior environment; accessing, by the controller, a virtual representation of the transition surface, the exterior environment and the interior environment; learning, by a fuzzy-logic inference engine, weather patterns and building occupant preferences; maintaining, by the controller, a mathematical model of the weather patterns, a mathematical model of said occupant preferences, and a database of diffusion material properties; using, by the controller, the photometric and electrical information and the virtual representation to calculate settings for the luminaire and a fenestration device in the building that achieve maximal energy savings while providing a light distribution in the building that is consistent with the occupant preferences; and outputting, by the controller, command signals comprising the settings to the luminaire and the fenestration device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the light distribution is consistent with predefined goals.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the light distribution maintains environmental characteristics of the building that are required by the occupants.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the light distribution is a maximized optimal light distribution.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the virtual representation includes geometry and material properties of objects that influence a distribution of daylight, diffused light, and artificial luminous flux within the exterior and interior environments.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the controller reads input data from daylight photosensors, occupancy sensors located in the building's interior environment, timers, personal lighting controls, weather report feeds, and energy storage controllers.
18. The method of claim 12, comprising transferring an attribute, in the virtual representation, from a virtual exterior element closest to a point on the virtual transition surface to a virtual interior element closest to the point.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the attribute is luminous or radiant flux, comprised of a flux of an exterior ray in a first direction from the closest virtual exterior element to the point times a diffusion parameter of an interior ray in a second direction from the point to the closest virtual interior element.
20. The method claim 12, wherein diffusion characteristics of the virtual representation of the transition surface are determined from: an analytic calculation of the diffusion properties of a material of the transition surface; or measured diffusion properties of the transition surface material.
21. The method of claim 12, wherein the diffusion properties of the transition surface are dependent on a wavelength of incident light on the transition surface.
</claims>
</document>
