<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60L58/24,B60L58/26,B60L58/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NIO USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAJAIE, RICK
YELLAMBALASE, YADUNANDANA
ING, ADAM H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68161332
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods of battery thermal management
</title>

<abstract>
A thermal management system of a battery of an electric vehicle proactively manages the temperature of the battery based on sensor data and sets limits to control cooling and heating of the battery. Using the data gathered from an autonomous drive platform, a highly-efficient control system which uses predictive modelling can be created. A control system predicts the battery final temperature and determines if cooling and/or heating is necessary for the route. If cooling and/or heating is not necessary, the thermal management system may be simply turned off to save energy. This is a dynamic approach which should optimize energy usage under all situations using trip predictive information (from GPS, route-calculation algorithms, and weather information), and thermal model predictive controls to determine battery final temperatures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor and comprising computer-readable program code that when executed by the processor causes the processor to perform operations comprising: determining a current temperature of a battery of a vehicle; determining that the current temperature of the battery is within a threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the current temperature of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery, performing operations comprising: determining an estimated temperature at arrival of the battery; determining that the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery; determining an amount of time that the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery; determining that the amount of time the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds a maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the amount of time the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds the maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery, initiating a thermal management process.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising determining the current temperature of the battery is not within the threshold temperature range of the battery, determining the vehicle has not arrived, and in response to determining the vehicle has not arrived, instructing the vehicle to drive without initiating the thermal management process.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery exceeds a maximum temperature of the battery, and cooling the battery in response to determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery exceeds the maximum temperature of the battery.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is less than a minimum temperature of the battery, and heating the battery in response to determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is less the minimum temperature of the battery.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on historical usage of the vehicle.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on weather information associated with a route of the vehicle.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on one or more data points associated with a current operating scenario.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more data points are obtained by the processor from a network location external to the vehicle.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein one or more of the one or more data points are obtained by the processor from a vehicle navigation system.
10. A method comprising: performing operations on a processor of a vehicle, the operations comprising: determining a current temperature of a battery of the vehicle; determining that the current temperature of the battery is within a threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the current temperature of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery, the processor performs operations comprising: determining an estimated temperature at arrival of the battery; determining that the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery, battery; determining an amount of time the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery; determining that the amount of time the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds a maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the amount of time the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds the maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery, initiating a thermal management process.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining the current temperature of the battery is not within the threshold temperature range of the battery, determining the vehicle has not arrived, and in response to determining the vehicle has not arrived, instructing the vehicle to drive without initiating the thermal management process.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery exceeds a maximum temperature of the battery, and cooling the battery in response to determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery exceeds the maximum temperature of the battery.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is less than a minimum temperature of the battery, and heating the battery in response to determining the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is less the minimum temperature of the battery.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on historical usage of the vehicle.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on one or more data points associated with a current operating scenario.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more data points are obtained by the processor from a network location external to the vehicle.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more data points are obtained by the processor from a vehicle navigation system.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, the computer-readable program code configured, when executed by a processor, to: determine a current temperature of a battery of a vehicle; determine if the current temperature of the battery is within a threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the current temperature of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery, the processor performs operations comprising: determining an estimated temperature at arrival of the battery; determining that the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is within the threshold temperature range of the battery; determining an amount of time that the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery; determining that the amount of time that the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds a maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery; and in response to determining that the amount of time that the vehicle will be within the threshold temperature range of the battery exceeds the maximum amount of time within the threshold temperature range of the battery, initiating a thermal management process.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the estimated temperature at arrival of the battery is determined based on one or more data points associated with a current operating scenario.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the one or more data points are obtained by the processor from a network location external to the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
