<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F7/20,G06F30/39
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, LI-JUI
CHIEN, SHANG-CHIEH
BO-TSUN, LIU
CHENG, PO-CHUNG
HSIEH, CHIEH
HSU, CHUN-CHIA
Chen, Kuan-Hung
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69523976
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and method for generating extreme ultraviolet radiation
</title>

<abstract>
An apparatus for generating extreme ultraviolet (EUV) radiation includes a droplet generator configured to generate target droplets. An excitation laser is configured to heat the target droplets using excitation pulses to convert the target droplets to plasma. An energy detector is configured to measure a variation in EUV energy generated when the target droplets are converted to plasma. A feedback controller is configured to adjust parameters of the droplet generator and/or the excitation laser based on the variation in EUV energy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of adjusting parameters of a droplet generator and an excitation laser based on variation in EUV radiation, the method comprising: receiving raw performance data including performance indicators and tuning parameters; generating a performance indicator map including performance indicator vector data corresponding to attributes of tuning parameters; generating a sub-image data including a first subset of the raw performance data; generating classified data sets of the raw performance data by applying a classifying rule to the sub-image data; generating a targeting probability map based on the classified data sets; determining a second subset of the raw performance data based on the targeting probability map; and in response to a variation in performance data, automatically adjusting a configurable parameter of the tuning parameters associated with the performance indicators to set the variation in performance data within a targeted range.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving raw performance data includes performance indicators selected from the group consisting of EUV energy, DG-Y, and Dose error.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving raw performance data includes tuning parameters selected from the group consisting of OMY, OMZ, T-fire, and PPAOM2.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a sub-image includes a region of interest.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein generating classified data sets includes a classifying rule based on a degradation rate of a reflectivity of a collector.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a targeting probability map is based on a boolean output.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining a second subset of the raw performance data is based on a density of the targeting probability map.
8. The method of claim 1, further including generating a 2D suggestion map based on the performance indicator map combined with the classified data.
9. The method of claim 1, further including generating a 2D suggestion map based on the performance indicator map combined with the classified data and a policy associated with the 2D suggestion map.
10. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a performance indicator map that generates performance indicator vector data corresponding to attributes of tuning parameters; and a statistical learning component that: receives sub-image data corresponding to a first subset of the tuning parameters; generates classified data sets by applying a classifying rule to the sub-image data; determines a second subset of the tuning parameters based on a targeting probability map; and in response to a variation in performance data, automatically adjusts the tuning parameters associate with the performance indicators to set the variation in performance data within a targeted range.
11. The system of claim 10, further including generating a 2D suggestion map based on the performance indicator map combined with the classified data.
12. The system of claim 10, further including generating a 2D suggestion map based on the performance indicator map combined with the classified data and a policy associated with the 2D suggestion map.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the classified data sets includes a classifying rule based on a degradation rate of a reflectivity of a collector.
14. The system of claim 10, further including classification algorithms and training data.
15. A system for adjusting parameters of a droplet generator and an excitation laser based on the variation in EUV radiation, the system comprising: a processing unit in communication with the droplet generator and the excitation laser, and configured to process: raw performance data including performance indicators and tuning parameters; a performance indicator map including performance indicator vector data corresponding to attributes of tuning parameters; a sub-image data including a first subset of the raw performance data; classified data sets of the raw performance data by applying a classifying rule to the sub-image data; a targeting probability map based on the classified data sets; and a second subset of the raw performance data determined based on the targeting probability map, wherein, in response to a variation in performance data, the processing unit automatically adjusts a configurable parameter of the tuning parameters associated with the performance indicators to set the variation in performance data within a targeted range.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the parameter of the droplet generator is at least one selected from the group consisting of droplet size, droplet temperature, time delay between successive droplets, and droplet velocity.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the parameter of the excitation laser is at least one selected from the group consisting of position of focus of a pre-pulse, position of focus of a main pulse, time delay between the pre-pulse and the main pulse, laser power, time delay between successive pre-pulses, time delay between successive main pulses, and laser pulse width.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing unit is further configured to determine another parameter to be adjusted based on historical data relating to the variation in EUV energy as a function of a variation in the parameter.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing unit is further configured to determine the parameter to be adjusted based on a targeting probability map including classified data sets of raw performance data by applying a classifying rule to the raw performance data.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the processing unit is further configured to determine the parameter to be adjusted based on a 2D suggestion map based on a performance indicator map combined with classified data associated with the 2D suggestion map.
</claims>
</document>
