<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01L3/00,C12M1/00,C12Q1/68,C12Q1/6816,C12Q1/6886,G01N15/10,G01N15/14,G01N33/543,G01N33/569,G01N33/574
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BIO-RAD LABORATORIES
CELSEE DIAGNOSTICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANDIQUE, KALYAN
SHARMA, VISHAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65436337
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for isolating and analyzing cells
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for isolating and analyzing single cells, wherein the system includes: an array of wells defined at a substrate, each well including an open surface and a well cavity configured to capture cells in one of a single-cell format and single-cluster format, and a fluid delivery module including a fluid reservoir superior to the array of wells through which fluid flow is controlled along a fluid path in a direction parallel to the broad face of the substrate; and wherein the method includes: capturing a population of non-cell particles into the array of wells in single-particle format; releasing, from the non-cell particles, a set of probes into the array of wells; capturing a population of cells into the array of wells in single-cell format; releasing biomolecules from each captured cell into the array of wells; and generating a set of genetic complexes comprising the biomolecules associated with a single captured cell and a subset of probes within individual wells of the array of wells.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for isolating and analyzing a set of target cells comprising: receiving the set of target cells into an array of wells defined at a surface plane of a substrate, wherein each well in the array of wells extends perpendicular to and below the surface plane into the substrate; achieving a particle-accessible state comprising the set of target cells captured in single-cell format at a first subset of wells of the array of wells comprising at least a first well, wherein a first target cell of a set of target cells is received into an open end of the first well; distributing a set of particles toward the array of wells, wherein each particle of the set of particles is coupled to a probe having a binding affinity for a target component associated with one or more of the set of target cells; upon distributing the set of particles toward the array of wells, achieving a desired state for the first well in the particle-accessible state, wherein achieving the desired state comprises co-capturing a first particle of the set of particles with the first target cell within the first well; processing a set of desired wells of the array of wells comprising at least the first well, wherein processing the set of desired wells comprises delivering a process reagent to the set of desired wells; and providing communication between target material of the set of desired wells and a thermal control module, for at least one of controlled heating and controlled cooling of target material processed using the set of desired wells.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein providing communication between target material of the set of desired wells and the thermal control module comprises delivering target material of the set of desired wells from the set of desired wells, by way of the set of particles, into a process container; and establishing thermal communication between the process container and the thermal control module.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein providing communication between target material of the set of desired wells and the thermal control module comprises establishing thermal communication between the substrate and the thermal control module.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the probe comprises a particle linker region coupling the probe to one of the set of particles, a primer sequence, a cell barcode sequence, and a unique molecular identifier region.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the target material comprises cDNA, and wherein the method further comprises generating a cDNA library from genetic product derived from the set of target cells upon performing an exonuclease treatment process and a polymerase chain reaction process with the target material, with temperature modulation of the array of wells by the thermal control module.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: achieving a particle-saturated state for a second well of the array of wells, wherein achieving the particle-saturated state comprises receiving at least a second particle and a third particle of the set of particles into the second well, wherein the third particle traverses the surface plane; and redistributing the third particle to a third well of the array of wells, thereby transitioning the second well from the particle-saturated state to a desired state comprising the second target cell co-localized with the second particle.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein re-distributing the third particle comprises: receiving a fluid into a fluid reservoir spanning the array of wells along the surface plane and in a direction parallel to the surface plane, thereby transferring the third particle from the second well and into the third well.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein delivering the process reagent to the set of desired wells comprises delivering at least one of a cell lysis reagent and an activation enzyme, wherein the activation enzyme is configured for probe hybridization to target material derived from the set of target cells.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein distributing the set of particles toward the array of wells comprises: with a flow control module coupled to a fluid reservoir spanning the array of wells, controlling a flow direction of the set of particles within a particle distribution fluid, wherein the flow direction alternates between a first direction and a second direction opposing the first direction.
10. A method for isolating and analyzing a set of target cells comprising: receiving the set of target cells into an array of wells defined at a surface plane of a substrate, wherein each well in the array of wells extends perpendicular to and below the surface plane into the substrate; achieving a particle-accessible state for a first subset of wells of the array of wells comprising at least a first well and a second well, wherein a first target cell of a set of target cells is received into an open end of the first well, and a second target cell of the set of target cells is received into an open end of the second well; distributing a set of particles toward the array of wells, wherein each particle of the set of particles is coupled to a probe having a binding affinity for a target component associated with one or more of the set of target cells; upon distributing the set of particles toward the array of wells, achieving a desired state for the first well in the particle-accessible state, wherein achieving the desired state comprises co-capturing a first particle of the set of particles with the first target cell within the first well; and achieving a particle-saturated state for the second well in the particle accessible state, wherein achieving the particle-saturated state comprises receiving at least a second particle and a third particle of the set of particles into the second well, wherein the third particle traverses the surface plane; re-distributing the third particle to a third well of the array of wells, wherein re-distributing the third particle comprises: receiving a fluid into a fluid reservoir spanning the array of wells along the surface plane and in a direction parallel to the surface plane, thereby transitioning the second well from the particle-saturated state to a desired state comprising the second target cell co-captured with the second particle; processing a set of desired wells of the array of wells comprising at least the first well and the second well, wherein processing the set of desired wells comprises delivering a process reagent to the set of desired wells; and transmitting target material from the set of desired wells by way of the set of particles.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein transmitting target material comprises delivering the target material from the array of wells into a process container; and establishing thermal communication between the process container and a thermal control module for at least one of controlled heating and controlled cooling of the target material.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the target component is a ribonucleic acid and the probe of at least one particle in the set of particles comprises a nucleotide sequence configured to bind to a portion of the ribonucleic acid.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the probe of each particle in the set of particles comprises a particle linker region coupling the probe to one of the set of particles, a primer sequence, a cell barcode sequence, and a unique molecular identifier region.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein performing the biochemical process comprises performing reverse transcription within the first well of the set of desired wells, thereby producing, within the first well, a first nucleotide sequence associated with a first genetic complex.
15. The method of 10, further comprising: within the first well of the set of desired wells, performing a biochemical process with the target component.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein delivering the process reagent comprises delivering the process reagent into the array of wells and maintaining a temperature of contents of the array of wells below 15° C. with a thermal control module coupled to the substrate.
17. The method of claim 10, further comprising establishing thermal communication between the substrate and a thermal control module, and modulating temperature of contents of the array of wells between 5° C. and 95° C. with the thermal control module.
18. The method claim 17, further comprising performing a downstream process with the target material, wherein the target material comprises cDNA, and wherein the method further comprises generating a cDNA library from genetic product derived from the set of target cells upon performing an exonuclease treatment process and a polymerase chain reaction process with the target material, with temperature modulation of the array of wells by the thermal control module.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein delivering the process reagent to the set of desired wells comprises delivering at least one of a cell lysis reagent and an activation enzyme, wherein the activation enzyme is configured for probe hybridization to target material derived from the set of target cells.
20. The method of claim 10, wherein receiving the set of target cells into the array of wells comprises providing the array of wells, each well in the array of wells having a length between 20 and 75 micrometers and a width between 20 and 30 micrometers.
</claims>
</document>
