<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04W12/02,H04W12/04,H04W12/10,H04W4/08,H04W4/12,H04W4/44,H04W4/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSYS NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAVALER, ROBERT
STIERS, TODD
Haoui, Sophia
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73823641
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and locale-based method for thwarting deceptions and/or denial of services
</title>

<abstract>
Technical problems and their solution are disclosed regarding the location of mobile devices requesting services near a site from a server. Embodiments adapt and/or configure the transmitting device near the site, the mobile device communicating with the transmitting device using a short haul wireless communications protocol to deliver a token based upon a key shared with the server but invisible to the mobile device. The server can determine the proximity of the mobile device to the site to control actuation of the requested service or disable the service request, and possibly flushing the service request from the server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: Av1) a mobile device, a transmitting device located near a site, and a server; said mobile devices includes a short-haul receiver; said transmitting device includes a short-haul transmitter; said transmitting device and said server share a first key invisible to said mobile device; Bv1) said mobile device is adapted and configured to receive a wireless message containing a token from said transmitting device located within a short range of said mobile device; Cv1) said transmitting device is adapted and configured to generate said token in said wireless message using a token generator, using said first key and using a transmitter time estimate; and said transmitting device operates said short-haul transmitter to transmit said wireless message to said mobile device to create a received message; Dv1) said mobile device is configured to respond to said received message to generate said token and said transmitter time estimate without wirelessly communicating to said transmitting device; Ev1) said mobile device generates a message including said transmitter time component, a service request and a Message Integrity Check (MIC); wherein said MIC is generated from said token, said transmitter time component, and said service request; Fv1) said server responds to said message to create a second received message including said transmitter time component, said service request, and said MIC; Gv1) said server responds to said second received message by generating said transmitter time estimate from a server time estimate and said transmitter time component; and Hv1) said server operates said token generator responds to said transmitter time estimate and said first key to generate a calculated token; Iv1) said server responds to said calculated token and said received message to authenticate that said mobile device is within a first distance of said site by activating said service request of said service at said site.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said server disables said service request if said server did not authenticate said mobile device is within said first distance of said site.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein said server disables said service request further comprises said server removes said message and/or said service request from said server.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: Avc2) wherein said server authorizes said service at said site in response to said server proving said mobile device is within said first distance near said server time estimate based upon said received message; and/or Bvc2) wherein said server disables said service request in response to said server proving said mobile device is not within said first distance near said server time estimate based upon said received message.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said mobile device implements at least one member of a first group consisting of a cellular phone, a wireless client device, a SMS messaging device, a vehicle mounted device, and a human mounted device.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said short-haul receiver and said short-haul transmitter each implement a version of Bluetooth® at no less than version 4[dot]0.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said short range is not more than a member of the group consisting of 10 meters (m), 50 m and 100 m; and/or wherein said second distance is not more than a member of a second group consisting of 1 m, 3 m, and 5 m.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, said first key is shared between said server and said transmitting device using at least one of: an Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection and a Diffie Hellman key exchange to generate said first key without said first key being visible on any connection to said mobile device.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein said first distance is within said short range minus a second distance from said transmitting device and said site.
10. An apparatus, comprising: Au1) a mobile device, a transmitting device located near a site, and a server; said transmitting device and said server share a first key invisible to said mobile device; Bu1) said mobile device adapted and configured to receive a wireless message as a received message containing a data payload at least partly generated by said first key using a short-haul wireless communication protocol from said transmitting device located within a short range of said mobile device; Cu1) said transmitting device adapted and configured to operate a token generator using said first key to at least partly generate said data payload in said wireless message; and said transmitting device adapted and configured to transmit said wireless message via said short-haul wireless communication protocol to said mobile device; Du1) said mobile device responds to said received message to generate a token and a transmitter time component from said transmitting device without wirelessly communicating to said transmitting device; Eu1) said mobile device generates and sends a message to said server including said transmitter time component, a service request and a Message Integrity Check (MIC); wherein said MIC is generated from said token, said transmitter time component, and said service request; Fu1) said server responds to said message received from said mobile device to create a second message using said first key shared with said transmitting device and said first key is invisible to said mobile device; and Gu1) said server authorizes said service request at said site if said second received message proves said mobile device is within a first distance of said site.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said server disables said service request if said second received message proves said mobile device is not within said first distance of said site.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein said server disables said service request further comprises said server removes said message and/or said service request from said server.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, further comprising: Auc1) wherein said server generates a server time estimate corresponding to a transmitter time estimate when said transmitting device generated said token.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: Auc2) wherein said server authorizes said service at said site in response to said server proving said mobile device is within said first distance near said server time estimate based upon said second received message; and/or Buc2) wherein said server disables said service request in response to said server proving said mobile device is not within said first distance near said server time estimate based upon said second received message.
15. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said mobile device implements at least one member of a first group consisting of a cellular phone, a wireless client device, a SMS messaging device, a vehicle mounted device and a human mounted device; and/or wherein said short-haul wireless communication protocol includes at least one version of at least one member of a protocol group consisting of Bluetooth®, Dedicated short-range communications (DSRC), and Cellular V2X (C-V2X).
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein said short-haul wireless communications protocol includes said version of said Bluetooth® at not less than version 4[dot]0.
17. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein said short range is not more than a member of the group consisting of 10 meters (m), 50 m and 100 m; and/or wherein said second distance is not more than a member of a second group consisting of 1 m, 3 m, and 5 m.
18. The apparatus of claim 10, said first key is shared between said server and said transmitting device using at least one of: a Virtual Private Network (VPN) connection and a Diffie Hellman key exchange to generate said first key without said first key being visible on any connection to said mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
