<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/136
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KASMI, REDA
KAUR, RAVNEET
MISHRA, NABIN K.
STOECKER & ASSOCIATES
STOECKER, WILLIAM VAN DOVER
</assignee>

<inventors>
KASMI, REDA
KAUR, RAVNEET
MISHRA, NABIN K.
STOECKER, WILLIAM VAN DOVER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61902834
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Thresholding methods for lesion segmentation in dermoscopy images
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods facilitate segmenting a dermoscopy image of a lesion to facilitate classification of the lesion. A dermoscopy image is received from an image source; pre-processed; and segmented. Segmenting the pre-processed dermoscopy image includes applying a thresholding algorithm to the dermoscopy image. The thresholding algorithm includes at least one of a Huang auto-thresholding algorithm, a Li auto-thresholding algorithm, a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm, an Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm, or an Isodata thresholding algorithm. A weighted border error metric is provided to allow prediction of whether segmentation is likely to avoid excluding portions of the lesion. A test is provided for determination of whether image inversion is needed for the methods to provide optimal borders. An iterative expansion algorithm is provided to for determine whether expansion is needed for the methods to provide optimal borders and to determine the degree of expansion needed for more inclusive segmentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for segmentation of a dermoscopy image of a lesion for facilitating classification of the lesion, the system comprising: an image analyzer having at least one processor that instantiates at least one component stored in a memory, the at least one component comprising: a segmenter configured to create a binary lesion mask by segmenting the dermoscopy image, the segmenter configured to segment the dermoscopy image by applying a thresholding algorithm to the dermoscopy image, the thresholding algorithm comprising at least one of a Huang auto-thresholding algorithm, a Li auto-thresholding algorithm, an Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm, and an Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm; and a post-processing component configured to post-process the binary lesion mask by performing at least one of inverting the binary lesion mask, performing auto-expansion of the binary lesion mask, and applying a second order spline to the binary lesion mask; wherein when the thresholding algorithm includes the Huang auto-thresholding algorithm, the post-processing component is further configured to: apply a Huang opening morphological filter, select a Huang central blob, and expand the Huang central blob using a Huang closing morphological filter.
2. The system of claim 1, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Li auto-thresholding algorithm or Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein the post-processing component is further configured to: apply an eroding morphological filter; select a central blob; and apply a convex hull.
3. The system of claim 1, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm or Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm or Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein the post-processing component is further configured to: invert the lesion mask; apply an opening morphological filter to the inverted lesion mask; apply a closing morphological filter; and select a central blob.
4. The system of claim 1, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm or Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm or Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein the post-processing component is further configured to: apply an opening morphological filter; select a central blob; and expand the central blob using a closing morphological filter.
5. The system of claim 1, the at least one component further comprising a pre-processing component configured to perform at least one of removing noise from the dermoscopy image, extracting a blue band image from the dermoscopy image, and filtering the dermoscopy image.
6. The system of claim 1, the at least one component further comprising a feature extractor configured to extract one or more dermatological features from the segmented dermoscopy image.
7. The system of claim 6, the at least one component further comprising a classifier configured to classify the lesion based on the one or more extracted dermatological features.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the classifier is configured to classify the lesion as a basal cell carcinoma (BCC), a squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a malignant melanoma, or benign lesion.
9. A method of segmenting a dermoscopy image of a lesion to facilitate classification of the lesion, the method comprising: receiving the dermoscopy image from an image source; pre-process the dermoscopy image; and segmenting the pre-processed dermoscopy image by applying a thresholding algorithm to the dermoscopy image, the thresholding algorithm comprising at least one of a Huang auto-thresholding algorithm, a Li auto-thresholding algorithm, a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm, an Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm, or an Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, the segmenting the pre-processed dermoscopy image comprises creating a binary lesion mask; and post-processing the binary lesion mask by performing at least one of inverting the binary lesion mask, performing-auto expansion of the binary lesion mask, and applying a second order spline to the binary lesion mask; wherein when the thresholding algorithm includes the Huang auto-thresholding algorithm, post-processing the binary lesion mask includes: applying a Huang opening morphological filter to the binary lesion mask, selecting a Huang central blob, and expanding the Huang central blob using a Huang closing morphological filter.
10. The method of claim 9, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Li auto-thresholding algorithm or Isodata auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein post-processing the binary lesion mask further comprises: applying an eroding morphological filter to the binary lesion mask; selecting a central blob; and applying a convex hull.
11. The method of claim 9, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm or Otsu auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein post-processing the binary lesion mask further comprises: inverting the lesion mask; applying an opening morphological filter to the inverted lesion mask; applying a closing morphological filter; and selecting a central blob.
12. The method of claim 9, the thresholding algorithm comprising a Shanbhag auto-thresholding algorithm, wherein post-processing the binary lesion mask further comprises: applying an opening morphological filter to the binary lesion mask; selecting a central blob; and expanding the central blob using a closing morphological filter.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein pre-processing the dermoscopy image comprises performing one of removing noise from the dermoscopy image, extracting a blue band image from the dermoscopy image, and filtering the dermoscopy image.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising extracting one or more dermatological features from the segmented dermoscopy image.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising classifying the lesion based on the one or more extracted dermatological features.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein classifying the lesion comprises classifying the lesion as a basal cell carcinoma (BCC), a squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a malignant melanoma, or a benign lesion.
</claims>
</document>
