<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/28,G06F16/41,G06F16/43,G06F16/435,G06F17/30,H04N21/235,H04N21/25,H04N21/278,H04N21/8352,H04N21/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE NIELSEN COMPANY (US)
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLACO, AMUDHA
DESAI, TEJAS
GLICKMAN, STEVEN L.
JAKKULA, GANGADHAR
NARASIMHA, GOLI REDDY
PATEL, PUNIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59066163
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Media names matching and normalization
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus to facilitate matching of names for same media content are disclosed. Example methods include analyzing first data associated with first media content and, when a program name/identifier and/or episode name/identifier is not identified in the first data, supplementing the data with second data to form third data and processing the third data with respect to fourth data associated with second media content and calculating a composite match score including a program match score and an episode match score based on processing the third data with respect to the fourth data. When the first media content is determined to match the second media content based on the processing of the third data with respect to the fourth data and a comparison of the composite match score to a threshold is satisfied, a normalized media name is generated for the first media content and the second media content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving first data related to a first media content; analyzing the first data to identify at least a) a program name or identifier and b) an episode name or identifier associated with the first media content; and when at least one of a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier is not identified in the first data, processing the first data by: retrieving second data from an affiliated provider and supplementing the first data with the second data to form third data associated with the first media content, the third data including a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier; calculating a composite match score between the first media content and a second media content by processing the third data with respect to fourth data associated with the second media content, the composite match scoring including a program match score and an episode match score, the processing to calculate the composite match score by at least: determining the program match score by comparing the program name or identifier of the third data to a program name or identifier of the fourth data; and when the program match score is greater than a first numerical threshold, determining the episode match score by comparing the episode name or identifier of the third data to an episode name or identifier of the fourth data; when the program match score of the composite match score is greater than the first numerical threshold and the episode match score of the composite match score is greater than a second numerical threshold, determining that the first media content matches the second media content; when the first media content is determined to match the second media content, generating a normalized media name for the first media content and the second media content from a combination of at least two of the a) the program name or identifier of the first media content, b) the episode name or identifier of the first media content, c) the program name or identifier of the second media content, and b) the episode name or identifier of the second media content; and outputting the normalized media name in association with the first media content.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the composite match score is used to match the first media content and the second media content using one of three classifications based on the composite match score: a good match, a possible match or a no-match.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein a good match corresponds to a composite match score greater than or equal to a third threshold, a possible match corresponds to a normalized data file with a composite match score greater than or equal to a fourth threshold, and a no match corresponds to a composite match score less than the fourth threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first media content and the second media content each include at least one of television media content, video on demand media content, or digital media content.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein outputting the normalized media name in association with the first media content includes storing the first media content and the second media content in association with the normalized media name.
6. The method of claim 1, further including training a machine learning algorithm for pattern matching to match the first media content and the second media content based on feedback associated with at least one of a) processing the first data with respect to the fourth data or b) processing the third data with respect to the fourth data.
7. The method of claim 1, further including cleaning the first data by: identifying at least one of a program name or an episode name in the first data; extracting meta-data from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing at least one of a program identifier or an episode identifier from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing punctuation from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; and converting letters to lowercase in the at least one of a program name or an episode name.
8. The method of claim 7, further including adjusting the composite match score based on the meta-data extracted from the at least one of a program name or an episode name.
9. The method of claim 1, further including: when a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier are identified in the first data, processing the first data with respect to the fourth data to match the first media content to the second media content and, when the first media content is determined to match the second media content based on the processing of the first data with respect to the fourth data, generating a normalized name for the first media content and the second media content.
10. An apparatus, comprising: a data receiver to receive first data related to a first media content; and a name matcher to: analyze the first data to identify at least a) a program name or identifier and b) an episode name or identifier associated with the first media content; and when at least one of a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier is not identified in the first data, process the first data by: retrieving second data from an affiliated provider and supplementing the first data with the second data to form third data associated with the first media content, the third data including a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier; calculating a composite match score between the first media content and a second media content by processing the third data with respect to fourth data associated with the second media content, the composite match scoring including a program match score and an episode match score, the processing to calculate the composite match score by at least: determining the program match score by comparing the program name or identifier of the third data to a program name or identifier of the fourth data; and when the program match score is greater than a first numerical threshold, determining the episode match score by comparing the episode name or identifier of the third data to an episode name or identifier of the fourth data; when the program match score of the composite match score is greater than the first numerical threshold and the episode match score of the composite match score is greater than a second numerical threshold, determining that the first media content matches the second media content; when the first media content is determined to match the second media content, generating a normalized media name for the first media content and the second media content from a combination of at least two of the a) the program name or identifier of the first media content, b) the episode name or identifier of the first media content, c) the program name or identifier of the second media content, and b) the episode name or identifier of the second media content; and outputting the normalized media name in association with the first media content.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the composite match score is used to match the first media content and the second media content using one of three classifications based on the composite match score: a good match, a possible match or a no-match.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein a good match corresponds to a composite match score greater than or equal to a third threshold, a possible match corresponds to a normalized data file with a composite match score greater than or equal to a fourth threshold, and a no match corresponds to a composite match score less than the fourth threshold.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the first media content and the second media content each include at least one of television media content, video on demand media content, or digital media content.
14. The apparatus of claim 10, further including a data store to store the first media content and the second media content in association with the normalized media name.
15. The apparatus of claim 10, further including an algorithm trainer to train a machine learning algorithm for pattern matching to match the first media content and the second media content based on feedback associated with at least one of a) processing the first data with respect to the fourth data or b) processing the third data with respect to the fourth data.
16. The apparatus of claim 10, further including a data cleaner to clean the first data by: identifying at least one of a program name or an episode name in the first data; extracting meta-data from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing at least one of a program identifier or an episode identifier from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing punctuation from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; and converting letters to lowercase in the at least one of a program name or an episode name.
17. A tangible computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause a processor to: receive first data related to a first media content; analyze the first data to identify at least a) a program name or identifier and b) an episode name or identifier associated with the first media content; and when at least one of a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier is not identified in the first data, process the first data by: retrieving second data from an affiliated provider and supplementing the first data with the second data to form third data associated with the first media content, the third data including a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier; calculating a composite match score between the first media content and a second media content by processing the third data with respect to fourth data associated with the second media content, the composite match scoring including a program match score and an episode match score, the processing to calculate the composite match score by at least: determining the program match score by comparing the program name or identifier of the third data to a program name or identifier of the fourth data; and when the program match score is greater than a first numerical threshold, determining the episode match score by comparing the episode name or identifier of the third data to an episode name or identifier of the fourth data; when the program match score of the composite match score is greater than the first numerical threshold and the episode match score of the composite match score is greater than a second numerical threshold, determining that the first media content matches the second media content; when the first media content is determined to match the second media content, generating a normalized media name for the first media content and the second media content from a combination of at least two of the a) the program name or identifier of the first media content, b) the episode name or identifier of the first media content, c) the program name or identifier of the second media content, and b) the episode name or identifier of the second media content; and outputting the normalized media name in association with the first media content.
18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the composite match score is used to match the first media content and the second media content using one of three classifications based on the composite match score: a good match, a possible match or a no-match.
19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein a good match corresponds to a composite match score greater than or equal to a third threshold, a possible match corresponds to a normalized data file with a composite match score greater than or equal to a fourth threshold, and a no match corresponds to a composite match score less than the fourth threshold.
20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the first media content and the second media content each include at least one of television media content, video on demand media content, or digital media content.
21. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein outputting the normalized media name in association with the first media content includes storing the first media content and the second media content in association with the normalized media name.
22. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed, cause the processor to train a machine learning algorithm for pattern matching to match the first media content and the second media content based on feedback associated with at least one of a) processing the first data with respect to the fourth data or b) processing the third data with respect to the fourth data.
23. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to clean the first data by: identifying at least one of a program name or an episode name in the first data; extracting meta-data from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing at least one of a program identifier or an episode identifier from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; removing punctuation from the at least one of a program name or an episode name; and converting letters to lowercase in the at least one of a program name or an episode name.
24. The computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to calculate the composite match score based on the meta-data extracted from the at least one of a program name or an episode name.
25. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the processor to: when a) the program name or identifier and b) the episode name or identifier are identified in the first data, processing the first data with respect to the fourth data to match the first media content to the second media content and, when the first media content is determined to match the second media content based on the processing of the first data with respect to the fourth data, generating a normalized name for the first media content and the second media content.
</claims>
</document>
