<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IONITA, MIRCEA
DAON HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
IONITA, MIRCEA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59520745
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for determining user liveness and verifying user identities
</title>

<abstract>
A method for verifying the identity of a user is provided that includes generating, by a computing device, a parameter for each processed frame in a video of biometric data captured from a user. The parameter results from movement of the computing device during capture of the biometric data. Moreover, the method includes generating a signal for the parameter and calculating a confidence score based on the generated signal and a classification model specific to the user. The classification model is generated from other signals generated for the parameter. Furthermore, the method includes verifying the identity of the user as true when the confidence score is at least equal to a threshold score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for verifying the identity of a user comprising: processing frames extracted from a video of biometric data of a user; generating, by a computing device, a parameter for each processed frame, the parameter resulting from movement of the computing device during capture of the biometric data; identifying processed frames using different values of the parameter, the different values being calculated based on incremental changes in the parameter; generating a biometric template for each identified frame; comparing each biometric template against a corresponding user record biometric template and calculating a matching score for each comparison, the user record biometric templates being generated from biometric data captured at the different parameter values; and verifying the identity of the user as true based on the matching scores.
2. A method for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 1, said verifying step comprising: comparing each matching score against a threshold score; and verifying the identity of the user as true when each matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
3. A method for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 1, said verifying step comprising: fusing the matching scores into a final matching score; comparing the final matching score against a threshold score; and verifying the identity of the user as true when the final matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
4. A method for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 1, further comprising transmitting a message to a service provider computer system on which the user desires to conduct a transaction after the identity of the user is verified as true.
5. A method for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 1, wherein the parameter is an angle, a tolerance for the angle being plus or minus two degrees.
6. A computing device for verifying the identity of a user comprising: a processor; and a memory configured to store data, said computing device being associated with a network and said memory being in communication with said processor and having instructions stored thereon which, when read and executed by said processor cause said computing device to: process frames extracted from a video of biometric data of a user; generate a parameter for each processed frame, the parameter resulting from movement of the computing device during capture of the biometric data; identify processed frames using different values of the parameter, the different values being calculated based on incremental changes in the parameter; generate a biometric template for each identified frame; compare each biometric template against a corresponding user record biometric template and calculate a matching score for each comparison, the user record biometric templates being generated from biometric data captured at the different parameter values; and verify the identity of the user as true based on the matching scores.
7. A computing device for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 6, wherein the instructions when read and executed by said processor, cause said computing device to: compare each matching score against a threshold score; and verify the identity of the user as true when each matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
8. A computing device for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 6, wherein the instructions when read and executed by said processor, cause said computing device to: fuse the matching scores into a final matching score; compare the final matching score against a threshold score; and verify the identity of the user as true when the final matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
9. A computing device for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 6, wherein the instructions when read and executed by said processor, cause said computing device to transmit a message to a service provider computer system on which the user desires to conduct a transaction after the identity of the user is verified as true.
10. A computing device for verifying the identity of a user in accordance with claim 6, wherein the parameter is an angle, a tolerance for the angle being plus or minus two degrees.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium included in a computing device having a computer program recorded thereon for verifying the identity of a user, the computer program being comprised of instructions, which when read and executed by the computing device cause the computing device to: process frames extracted from a video of biometric data of a user; generate a parameter for each processed frame, the parameter resulting from movement of the computing device during capture of the biometric data; identify processed frames using different values of the parameter, the different values being calculated based on incremental changes in the parameter; generate a biometric template for each identified frame; compare each biometric template against a corresponding user record biometric template and calculate a matching score for each comparison, the user record biometric templates being generated from biometric data captured at the different parameter values; and verify the identity of the user as true based on the matching scores.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium in accordance with claim 11, wherein the computer program further comprises instructions, which when read and executed by the computing device cause the computing device to: compare each matching score against a threshold score; and verify the identity of the user as true when each matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium in accordance with claim 11, wherein the computer program further comprises instructions, which when read and executed by the computing device cause the computing device to: fuse the matching scores into a final matching score; compare the final matching score against a threshold score; and verify the identity of the user as true when the final matching score is at least equal to the threshold score.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium in accordance with claim 11, wherein the computer program further comprises instructions, which when read and executed by the computing device cause the computing device to transmit a message to a service provider computer system on which the user desires to conduct a transaction after the identity of the user is verified as true.
15. A computer program in accordance with claim 11, wherein the parameter is an angle, a tolerance for the angle being plus or minus two degrees.
</claims>
</document>
