<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON MEDIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BELKALE, NAVEEN
VELLAL, SAINATH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51986636
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for contextual mail recommendations
</title>

<abstract>
An email system that enables users to request for and receive recommended messages which are relevant and contextually related to a received message via activation of a user interface element is disclosed. When a message is received, it is analyzed and keywords relevant to the received message along with named entities comprised in the received message are retrieved and stored. Upon activation of a user interface element, the relevant keywords are employed to retrieve other similar messages which are grouped into clusters. The clusters are further ranked based on their relevance to the received message and the top ranked messages from the most relevant cluster are selected for display to the user as the messages that are contextually relevant to the received message. The email system also facilitates execution of batch operations on the contextually relevant messages.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, a message addressed to an inbox of a recipient; analyzing, via the computing device, the message, and determining, based on said analysis, a context of the message; analyzing, via the computing device, the inbox of the user based on said context, and based on analysis, determining a set of messages that are not part of a message thread with the received message, said set of messages being separately received messages that have content corresponding to said context; compiling, via the computing device, the received message and the set of messages into a message thread display; and causing, via the computing device, said message thread display to be displayed within said inbox of the user upon the user interacting with said received message.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving said user interaction; and performing said compilation of the message thread display based on said reception of the user interaction, wherein said messages associated with the message thread display are organized in said inbox separately until reception of said user interaction.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein analysis of the message further comprises determining keywords within the message.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of said determined set of messages comprise at least one of the determined keywords.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining a set of synonyms for each of the determined keywords; and analyzing the inbox of the user based on said set of synonyms, and based on analysis, determining a set of messages that are not part of a message thread with the received message, said set of messages being separately received messages that have content corresponding to said context.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein said at least one of the determined keywords corresponds to an identifier of a sender the message, wherein said compiled messages are sent from said sender.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a similarity between the message and each of the determined set of messages; and ranking, based on said determined similarity, each of the determined set of messages, wherein said message thread display is based on said determined ranking.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein said determination of said similarity is based on a cosine similarity value between the received message and each of the determined set of messages.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein said determination of said similarity comprises determining a number of shared keywords between the received message and each of the determined set of messages, wherein said ranking is based on said determined number of shared keywords.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium tangibly encoded with computer-executable instructions, that when executed by a computing device, perform a method comprising: receiving, by the computing device, a message addressed to an inbox of a recipient; analyzing, via the computing device, the message, and determining, based on said analysis, a context of the message; analyzing, via the computing device, the inbox of the user based on said context, and based on analysis, determining a set of messages that are not part of a message thread with the received message, said set of messages being separately received messages that have content corresponding to said context; compiling, via the computing device, the received message and the set of messages into a message thread display; and causing, via the computing device, said message thread display to be displayed within said inbox of the user upon the user interacting with said received message.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising: receiving said user interaction; and performing said compilation of the message thread display based on said reception of the user interaction, wherein said messages associated with the message thread display are organized in said inbox separately until reception of said user interaction.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein analysis of the message further comprises determining keywords within the message.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein each of said determined set of messages comprise at least one of the determined keywords.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, further comprising: determining a set of synonyms for each of the determined keywords; and analyzing the inbox of the user based on said set of synonyms, and based on analysis, determining a set of messages that are not part of a message thread with the received message, said set of messages being separately received messages that have content corresponding to said context.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein said at least one of the determined keywords corresponds to an identifier of a sender the message, wherein said compiled messages are sent from said sender.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising: determining a similarity between the message and each of the determined set of messages; and ranking, based on said determined similarity, each of the determined set of messages, wherein said message thread display is based on said determined ranking.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein said determination of said similarity is based on a cosine similarity value between the received message and each of the determined set of messages.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein said determination of said similarity comprises determining a number of shared keywords between the received message and each of the determined set of messages, wherein said ranking is based on said determined number of shared keywords.
19. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executed by the processor for receiving, by the computing device, a message addressed to an inbox of a recipient; logic executed by the processor for analyzing, via the computing device, the message, and determining, based on said analysis, a context of the message; logic executed by the processor for analyzing, via the computing device, the inbox of the user based on said context, and based on analysis, determining a set of messages that are not part of a message thread with the received message, said set of messages being separately received messages that have content corresponding to said context; logic executed by the processor for compiling, via the computing device, the received message and the set of messages into a message thread display; and logic executed by the processor for causing, via the computing device, said message thread display to be displayed within said inbox of the user upon the user interacting with said received message.
20. The computing device of claim 19, further comprising: logic executed by the processor for receiving said user interaction; and logic executed by the processor for performing said compilation of the message thread display based on said reception of the user interaction, wherein said messages associated with the message thread display are organized in said inbox separately until reception of said user interaction.
</claims>
</document>
