<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELDAR YUVAL
OZ ROEE
RONEN, ROYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62976210
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive online data activity protection
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identifying and responding to anomalous data activity by a computer user on a computing device are presented. An anomalous data activity service, implemented as a machine learning service, receives notice of data activity and conducts an evaluation to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity. Upon determining that the data activity is an anomalous data activity, a responsive action may be taken that may result in the anomalous data activity being blocked or allowed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for responding to an anomalous data activity on a computing device, the method comprising: initializing an anomalous data activity service, the anomalous data activity service being a machine learning service for identifying whether a data activity is an anomalous data activity that adaptively learns based at least on confidentiality labels assigned to data items; receiving notice of a data activity regarding an item of data by a computer user using the computing device; evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity; upon determining that the data activity regarding the item of data is an anomalous data activity, carrying out a response activity regarding the anomalous data activity; and updating the anomalous data activity service according to the response activity in view of the anomalous data activity.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the item of data is associated with a sensitivity label, and wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity comprises evaluating the data activity in view of the sensitivity label associated with the item of data.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of base rules for conducting data activities.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of one or more prior instances of the same or similar data activity by the computer user.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 4, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of one or more prior instances of the same or similar data activity by other users.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity comprises submitting the data activity to a cooperative, remotely operating anomalous data activity service.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein carrying out the response activity comprises advising the user that the data activity is an anomalous data activity.
8. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein carrying out the response activity comprises confirming with the user the user's intent to carry out the data activity.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein carrying out the response activity comprises obtaining confirmation from a third-party system administrator whether the user is authorized to carry out the data activity.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein carrying out the response activity further comprises, based on the confirmation response of the third-party system administrator, allowing the data activity to occur.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein carrying out the response activity comprises disallowing the data activity to occur.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising logging the data activity of the user in an activity log.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating data activity of the computer user; and determining whether the aggregated data activity of the user is anomalous data activity.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the confidentiality labels are assigned to data items by computer application users.
15. A computing device for responding to an anomalous data activity by a computer user on the computing device, the computing device comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the processor executes instructions as part of, or in conjunction with, executable components in responding to an anomalous data activity, the additional components comprising: an executable anomalous data activity service, the anomalous data activity service being a machine learning service for identifying whether a data activity is an anomalous data activity that adaptively learns based at least on confidentiality labels assigned to data items, and in execution: receives notice of a data activity regarding an item of data by a computer user using the computing device; evaluates the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity; upon determining that the data activity regarding the item of data is an anomalous data activity, carries out a response activity regarding the anomalous data activity; and updates the anomalous data activity service according to the response activity in view of the anomalous data activity.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the item of data is associated with a sensitivity label, and wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity comprises evaluating the data activity in view of the sensitivity label associated with the item of data.
17. The computing device of claim 16, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of base rules for conducting data activities.
18. The computing device of claim 17, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of one or more prior instances of the same or similar data activity by the computer user.
19. The computing device of claim 18, wherein evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity further comprises evaluating the data activity in view of one or more prior instances of the same or similar data activity by other users.
20. A computer readable medium bearing computer executable instructions which, when executed on a computing system comprising at least a processor, carry out a method for responding to an anomalous data activity by a computer user, the method comprising: initializing an anomalous data activity service, the anomalous data activity service being a machine learning service for identifying whether a data activity is an anomalous data activity that adaptively learns based at least on confidentiality labels assigned to data items; receiving notice of a data activity regarding an item of data by a computer user using the computing device; evaluating the data activity regarding the item of data to determine whether the data activity is an anomalous data activity; upon determining that the data activity regarding the item of data is an anomalous data activity, carrying out a response activity regarding the anomalous data activity; and updating the anomalous data activity service according to the response activity in view of the anomalous data activity.
</claims>
</document>
