<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/532,G06F16/583,G06K9/66,G06N3/02,G06N5/04,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
A9.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHOTIKA, RAHUL
Ravichandran, Avinash Aghoram
Lam, Michael Quang Thai
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425846
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Parts-based visual similarity search
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments provide for visual similarity based search techniques that certain desirable visual attributes of one or more items to search for items having similar visual attributes. In order to create an electronic catalog of items that is searchable by parts-based visual attributes, the visual attributes are identified and corresponding feature vectors are extracted from the image data of each item. Thus, feature values of parts-based visual attributes of items in the electronic catalog can be determined and used to select or rank the items in response to a search query based on desirable visual attributes. To conduct a search, a user may define desirable visual attributes of one or more items. The feature vectors of the desirable visual attributes are determined and used to query the electronic catalog of items, in which items having visual attributes of similar feature vectors are selected and returned as search results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: at least one computing device processor; and a memory device including instructions that, when executed by the at least one computing device processor, cause the system to: receive a query including a plurality of visual attributes associated with a plurality of parts of one or more items; determine a plurality of query feature vectors respectively associated with the plurality of visual attributes; for individual visual attributes of the plurality of visual attributes: query a respective attribute database, of a plurality of attribute databases, corresponding to an individual visual attribute of the plurality of visual attributes, the attribute database including feature vectors corresponding to the individual visual attribute of a plurality of items; and determine respective attribute similarity scores for the plurality of items based on individual comparisons between the query feature vector corresponding to the specific visual attribute and the feature vectors in the attribute database; and for specific items in the plurality of items: determine an overall similarity score for a specific item based on the plurality of attribute similarity scores corresponding to the plurality of visual attributes; and determine one or more items of the plurality of items to display in response to the query based on the overall similarity scores of the one or more items.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: receive image data including a representation of a model wearing an apparel item, the apparel item having at least some of the plurality of visual attributes, the plurality of visual attributes including at least one of a neckline, a sleeve style, a hemline, a color, a pattern, a cut, a style, or an occasion; determine points in the image data corresponding to body parts of the model; determine portions of the image data corresponding to the plurality of visual attributes based on the position of the points; and extract the plurality of query feature vectors from the respective portions of the image data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the attribute similarity scores represent K-nearest neighbor distances or rankings positions determined based on the K-nearest neighbor distances.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: receive a user input defining weights of the plurality of visual attributes for the weighting function.
5. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving a query associated with a plurality of visual attributes; determining respective query feature values corresponding to the plurality of visual attributes; querying a plurality of databases corresponding respectively to the plurality of visual attributes using the respective query feature values, the plurality of databases each having a plurality of feature values corresponding to the respective visual attribute of a plurality of items; comparing the query feature values to the corresponding feature values of the plurality of items for the plurality of visual attributes; determining attribute similarity scores of the plurality of items for the plurality of visual attributes; determining overall similarity scores for the plurality of items, respectively, based on the respective attribute similarity scores of the plurality of items; and determining one or more results from the respective results to display in response to the query based on the overall similarity scores of the plurality of items.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: ranking the one or more items based at least in part on the overall similarity scores of the plurality of items.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: applying a weighting function to the attribute similarity scores of an item to determine the overall similarity score of the item.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: determining the weighting function based at least in part on a user input, the user input defining relative weights of the one or more attributes.
9. The method of claim 5, further comprising: wherein the plurality of visual attributes are respectively associated with a plurality of visual parts of the plurality of items.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: generating the database, wherein the plurality of items in the database are associated with respective image data; determining portions of the image data associated with the plurality of visual parts; and extracting the respective feature values of the plurality of visual attributes from the portions of the image associated with the plurality of visual attributes.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: identifying points in the respective image data corresponding to parts of a human body, wherein individual portions of the image data associated with the plurality of visual parts are defined by one or more of the points.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, based on the positions of one or more of the points, that one of the plurality of visual parts is indeterminate.
13. The method of claim 5, wherein the plurality of items include apparel items, and the plurality of visual attributes includes at least one of a neckline, a sleeve style, a hemline, a color, a pattern, a cut, a style, or an occasion.
14. The method of claim 5, further comprising: determining the plurality of query feature values from image data providing representations of one or more items.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the image data is uploaded from a client device, captured using a camera of the client device, or pointed to via a link provided from the client device.
16. A system, comprising: at least one computing device processor; and a memory device including instructions that, when executed by the at least one computing device processor, cause the system to: receive a query associated with a plurality of visual attributes; determine, from the query, respective query feature values corresponding to the plurality of visual attributes; query a plurality of databases corresponding to the plurality of visual attributes using the respective query feature values, the plurality of databases each having a plurality of feature values corresponding to the respective visual attribute of a plurality of items; compare the query feature values to the corresponding feature values of the plurality of items for the plurality of visual attributes; determine attribute similarity scores of the plurality of items for the plurality of visual attributes; determine overall similarity scores for the plurality of items, respectively, based on the respective attribute similarity scores of the plurality of items; and determine one or more results from the respective results to display in response to the query based on the overall similarity scores of the plurality of items.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: generating the database, wherein the plurality of items in the database are associated with respective image data; determining portions of the image data associated with the plurality of visual parts; and extracting the respective feature values of the plurality of visual attributes from the portions of the image associated with the plurality of visual attributes.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: identifying points in the respective image data corresponding to parts of a human body, wherein individual portions of the image data associated with the plurality of visual parts are defined by one or more of the points.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the instructions when executed further cause the system to: determining the plurality of query feature values from image data providing representations of one or more items.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the image data is uploaded from a client device, captured using a camera of the client device, or pointed to via a link provided from the client device.
</claims>
</document>
