<document>

<filing_date>
2015-05-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/583,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YAHOO HOLDINGS
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, JIA
HSIAO, JENHAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57325408
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile visual search using deep variant coding
</title>

<abstract>
An approach for performing mobile visual search uses deep variant coding of images to reduce the amount of data transmitted from mobile devices to a search server and to provide more efficient indexing and searching on the search server. The amount of data used to represent an image varies depending upon the content of the image and is less than conventional fixed bit length hashing approaches. Denser regions of a feature space are represented by more encoding bits and sparser regions of the feature space are represented by fewer encoding bits, so that the overall number of encoding bits for an image feature is reduced. The approach generally involves determining a set of hash functions that provide deep hashing with more evenly-distributed hash buckets. One or more additional hash functions may be selectively generated for particular hash buckets that contain more than a specified number of images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A server for executing a search process, the server comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: receive from a mobile device over one or more communications networks, a search query that includes a plurality of hash bits that represent results of processing image data for an image with a plurality of hash functions, wherein a number of hash bits in the plurality of hash bits is determined based on the content of the image data for the image, determine, based on the plurality of hash bits and a partitioning criterion, whether a hash bucket of a hash feature space is to be sub-divided into a plurality of sub-buckets, wherein the plurality of hash bits of the image fall into one of the plurality of sub-buckets, identify, in response to a successful determination that the hash bucket is to be sub-divided, an additional hash function that provides a substantially even distribution of images with respect to each of the plurality of sub-buckets, wherein the plurality of hash functions and the additional hash function form a hash hierarchy which indicates a number of hash bits used to encode each image in the hash feature space, identify one or more other images that have their corresponding hash bits belonging to the one sub-bucket, and transmit, to the mobile device over the one or more communications networks, search results that identify the one or more other images that belong to the one sub-bucket.
2. The server of claim 1, wherein the search results include at least one of the one or more other images that belong to the one sub-bucket.
3. The server of claim 1, wherein a particular image from the one or more other images that belong to the one sub-bucket is determined to be similar to the image represented by the plurality of hash bits included in the search query, and the search results include data that at least identifies the particular image.
4. The server of claim 1, wherein image data for a plurality of images that includes the one or more other images is transformed to a new coordinate system to increase variance of images contained in the plurality of hash buckets.
5. The server of claim 1, wherein the plurality of hash functions is determined using principle component analysis to obtain a maximum variance between hash buckets from the plurality of hash buckets defined by the plurality of hash functions.
6. The server of claim 1, wherein the search process is further configured to: identify one or more nearby hash buckets within a specified Hamming distance of the hash bucket, identify one or more images contained in the one or more nearby hash buckets that are similar to the image, and including, in the search results, the one or more images contained in the one or more nearby hash buckets that are similar to the image.
7. The server of claim 1, wherein the partitioning criterion corresponds to a number of images having their corresponding hash bits belonging to the hash bucket, exceeding a predetermined threshold.
8. The server of claim 4, wherein image data for the plurality of images is transformed to the new coordinate system based on singular value decomposition.
9. A method, implemented on a machine having at least one processor, storage, and a communication platform connected to a network for executing a search process, the method comprising: receiving from a mobile device over one or more communications networks, a search query that includes a plurality of hash bits that represent results of processing image data for an image with a plurality of hash functions, wherein a number of hash bits in the plurality of hash bits is determined based on the content of the image data for the image; determining, based on the plurality of hash bits and a partitioning criterion, whether a hash bucket of a hash feature space is to be sub-divided into a plurality of sub-buckets, wherein the plurality of hash bits of the image fall into one of the plurality of sub-buckets; identifying, in response to a successful determination that the hash bucket is to be sub-divided, an additional hash function that provides a substantially even distribution of images with respect to each of the plurality of sub-buckets, wherein the plurality of hash functions and the additional hash function form a hash hierarchy which indicates a number of hash bits used to encode each image in the hash feature space; identifying one or more other images that have their corresponding hash bits belonging to the one sub-bucket; and transmitting, to the mobile device over the one or more communications networks, search results that identify the one or more other images that belong to the one sub-bucket.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the search results include at least one of the one or more other images that belong to the one sub-bucket.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein image data for a plurality of images that includes the one or more other images is transformed to a new coordinate system to increase variance of images contained in the plurality of hash buckets.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying one or more nearby hash buckets within a specified Hamming distance of the hash bucket, identifying one or more images contained in the one or more nearby hash buckets that are similar to the image, and including, in the search results, the one or more images contained in the one or more nearby hash buckets that are similar to the image.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein image data for the plurality of images is transformed to the new coordinate system based on singular value decomposition.
</claims>
</document>
