<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEARSON EDUCATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTMANN, ROBERT A.
PHILLIP, JINOSH K.
REYNOLDS, CECIL R.
KAMPHAUS, RANDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62783617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for automatic content remediation notification
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for automatic content remediation notification are disclosed herein. The system can include memory that can contain a content library database. The system can include a first user device and one or more servers. The one or more servers can: receive a content aggregation creation request from the first user device; identify content information associated with a set of the plurality of data packets; apply a filter request to the set of the plurality of data packets; automatically provide information relating to data packets in the restricted set of data packets to the first user device; receive content aggregate information identifying a content aggregate from the first user device; evaluate the content aggregate according to the metadata associated with the data packets of the content aggregate; and output an indicator of the evaluation result to the first user device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automatic content remediation notification comprising: memory comprising: a content library database, wherein the content library database comprises: a plurality of data packets; and metadata associated with each of the data packets, wherein the metadata identifies at least one attribute of the associated data packet; a first user device comprising: a first network interface configured to exchange data via a communication network; and a first I/O subsystem configured to convert electrical signals to user interpretable outputs via a graphical user interface (GUI); a second user device; and one or more servers, wherein the one or more servers are configured to: receive, from a form management GUI, a content aggregation creation request from the first user device, the content aggregation creation request comprising instructions to automatically launch a form software application configured to generate a form content, comprising an aggregation of at least one content component selected from a form builder GUI within the form software application, to be included in a new and unique form; identify content information associated with a set of the plurality of data packets comprising the at least one content component to be aggregated into the form content, in response to the receipt of the content aggregation creation request; apply a filter request, comprising a filter selection from a filter panel on the form builder GUI defining at least one parameter relevant to the form content or the intended recipient of the content aggregation, to the set of the plurality of data packets to form a restricted set of data; automatically provide, in response to a query to a content library database, information within the content library database relating to data packets in the restricted set of data packets to the first user device for display within a content component display window within the form builder GUI; receive content aggregate information identifying a content aggregate, and comprising a selection of a name or a subject of the at least one content component from the content component display window and inserted into a custom form window within the form builder GUI, from the first user device, wherein the content aggregate comprises a plurality of data packets from the restricted set of data packets; evaluate, according to at least one reliability requirement or standard, at least one potential grouping of content for the content aggregate according to the metadata associated with the data packets of the content aggregate; and automatically output an indicator of the evaluation result to the first user device, wherein the evaluation result comprises a reliability score for the at least one potential grouping of content and wherein: responsive to a determination that the evaluation result is greater than a threshold value defined in a threshold database, the form builder GUI displays at least one GUI control to store the content aggregate in the content library database; and responsive to a determination that the evaluation result is less than the threshold value, the form builder GUI displays an automatically generated compliance recommendation comprising a recommended grouping of content increasing the evaluation result equal to or above the threshold value.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more servers are further configured to receive the filter request from the first user device, wherein the filter request identifies at least one attribute as a criterion for inclusion of a data packet within the restricted set of data packets.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the filter request identifies an intended recipient of the content aggregate.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the identification of the intended recipient of the content aggregate comprises identification of one or more attributes of the intended recipient of the content aggregate.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein applying the filter request to the set of the plurality of data packets comprises identifying a norm group for the intended recipient.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the norm group comprises norm data previously gathered from users similar to the intended recipient.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein evaluating the content aggregate comprises automatically generating a reliability value based on the metadata of the data packets in the content aggregate.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the reliability value comprise Cronbach's α.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein the reliability value is generated for at least one age group.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein evaluating the content aggregate further comprises generating supplemental statistical parameters from the norm group data.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the supplemental statistical parameters comprise a mean and a standard deviation.
12. The system of claim 10, evaluating the content aggregate further comprises: generating a content score; comparing the content score to a threshold, wherein the threshold delineates between acceptable and unacceptable content scores; and generating a compliance recommendation when the comparing of the content score to the threshold indicates that the content score is unacceptable.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the compliance recommendation identifies at least one data packet for inclusion in the content aggregation.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein automatically outputting the indicator of the evaluation result comprises automatically sending the compliance recommendation to the first user device.
15. A method for automatic content remediation notification comprising: receiving, from a form management graphical user interface (GUI), a content aggregation creation request from a first user device, the content aggregation creation request comprising instructions to automatically launch a form software application configured to generate a form content, comprising an aggregation of at least one content component selected from a form builder GUI within the form software application, to be included in a new and unique form; identifying content information associated with a set of a plurality of data packets comprising the at least one content component to be aggregated into the form content, in response to the receipt of the content aggregation creation request; applying a filter request, comprising a filter selection from a filter panel on the form builder GUI defining at least one parameter relevant to the form content or the intended recipient of the content aggregation, to the set of the plurality of data packets that match the filter selection to form a restricted set of data; automatically providing, in response to a query to a content library database, information within the content library database relating to data packets in the restricted set of data packets to the first user device for display within a content component display window within the form builder GUI; receiving content aggregate information identifying a content aggregate, and comprising a selection of a name or a subject of the at least one content component from the content component display window and inserted into a custom form window within the form builder GUI, from the first user device, wherein the content aggregate comprises a plurality of data packets from the restricted set of data packets; evaluating, according to at least one reliability requirement or standard, at least one potential grouping of content for the content aggregate according to the metadata associated with the data packets of the content aggregate; and automatically outputting an indicator of the evaluation result to the first user device wherein the evaluation result comprises a reliability score for the at least one potential grouping of content and wherein: responsive to a determination that the evaluation result is greater than a threshold value defined in a threshold database, the form builder GUI displays at least one GUI control to store the content aggregate in the content library database; and responsive to a determination that the evaluation result is less than the threshold value, the form builder GUI displays an automatically generated compliance recommendation comprising a recommended grouping of content increasing the evaluation result equal to or above the threshold value.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising receiving a filter request from a first user device, wherein the filter request identifies at least one attribute as a criterion for inclusion of a data packet within the restricted set of data packets, wherein the filter request identifies an intended recipient of the content aggregate.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the identification of the intended recipient of the content aggregate comprises identification of one or more attributes of the intended recipient of the content aggregate, and wherein applying the filter request to the set of the plurality of data packets comprises identifying a norm group for the intended recipient, wherein the norm group comprises norm data previously gathered from users similar to the intended recipient.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein evaluating the content aggregate comprises automatically generating a reliability value based on the metadata of the data packets in the content aggregate and generating supplemental statistical parameters from the norm group data.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein evaluating the content aggregate further comprises: generating a content score; comparing the content score to a threshold, wherein the threshold delineates between acceptable and unacceptable content scores; and generating a compliance recommendation when the comparing of the content score to the threshold indicates that the content score is unacceptable.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the compliance recommendation identifies at least one data packet for inclusion in the content aggregation, and wherein automatically outputting the indicator of the evaluation result comprises automatically sending the compliance recommendation to the first user device.
</claims>
</document>
