<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/021,A61B5/024,A61B5/05,A61B5/053,A61B5/08,A61B5/11,A61B5/113,A61B7/00,A61M16/00,A61M16/06,A61M16/16,G01S13/56,G01S13/87,G01S13/88,G01S7/41
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESMED SENSOR TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOHENY, EMER
SHOULDICE, REDMOND
ZAFFARONI, ALBERTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55970957
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection and identification of a human from characteristic signals
</title>

<abstract>
One or more sensors are configured for detection of characteristics of moving objects and living subjects for human identification or authentication. One or more processors, such as in a system of sensors or that control a sensor, may be configured to process signals from the one or more sensors to identify a person. The processing may include evaluating features from the signals such as breathing rate, respiration depth, degree of movement and heart rate etc. The sensors may be radio frequency non-contact sensors with automated detection control to change detection control parameters based on the identification of living beings, such as to avoid sensor interference.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A physiological parameter monitoring system adapted to identify a person for monitoring of the identified person's physiological parameters, the system including: one or more sensors for monitoring one or more persons' physiological parameters, and one or more processors, the one or more processors configured to process signals from the one or more sensors to identify a person, the processing comprising an evaluation of parameters comprising one or more respiratory parameters, cardiac parameters, or movement parameters, wherein the evaluation of parameters comprises analysis of detected respiration depth, the one or more processors being further configured to, in response to the evaluation, store locally, or to forward for remote storage, the monitored physiological parameters in association with the person identified from the evaluation, wherein the one or more processors is configured to operate an enrolment process for initialization of biometric characteristics for identifying the person, wherein the enrolment process comprises scanning of data from a user's sleep session to identify fiducial points in the data and calculate classification features for generation of a biometric signature for the user; and wherein the evaluation of parameters further comprises an assessment of the generated biometric signature.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring comprises detection of physiological characteristics of the person during sleep, wherein the processing comprises one or more of (a) detection of sleep stages of the person, (b) detection of deep sleep of the person, and (c) detection of REM sleep of the person.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the monitoring comprises detection of physiological characteristics during awake time of the person.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises any one or more of: a radio frequency non-contact sensor; a biomotion sensor; and a wearable sensor.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the evaluation of the one or more processors comprises detection and analysis of any one or more characteristics comprising behavioural characteristics.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprise at least two sensors, and wherein the at least two sensors are configured to minimize interference between the at least two of the one or more sensors.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors minimize interference by modifying control parameters for range gating pulse timing, emitted power levels of pulses, detection frequency of pulses and/or adjusting positioning of a steerable antenna.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the one or more sensors are configured to communicate via a wired or wireless link.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein characteristic biometric parameters are applied to dynamically adjust performance of at least one of the one or more sensors in order to optimize physiological recognition of independent human sources, and to reject other sources.
10. The system of claim 1 further comprising a control processor in communication with the one or more sensors, the control processor configured to communicate with the one or more sensors to adjust one or more detection control parameters of the one or more sensors based on an identification of the person, other people, or an animal by the one or more sensors.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein the detection control parameters of the one or more sensors comprises one or more of range gating, centre frequency, and power level.
12. The system of claim 1 further comprising a control processor in communication with the one or more sensors, the control processor configured to activate a further sensor system based on an identification of the person, other people, or an animal by the one or more sensors.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein the further sensor system comprises a camera.
14. The system of claim 1 wherein a processor is configured to log detected biometric characteristics based on the identification of the person to be a previously monitored person.
15. The system of claim 1 wherein a processor is configured to refrain from logging detected biometric characteristics based on the identification of the person to be a not previously monitored person.
16. The system of claim 1 wherein a processor is configured to initialize biometric characteristic detection for a particular person.
17. The system of claim 16 wherein the processor is configured to compare newly detected biometric characteristics to initialized biometric characteristics to identify the particular person.
18. The system of claim 16 wherein the evaluation further comprises a comparison between newly detected biometric characteristics and initialized biometric characteristics.
19. The system of claim 1 wherein the evaluation comprises classification of parameters determined from the signals, the parameters comprising one or more of: a spectral peak ratio; a set up Optimiser flag vector; a peak trough ratio; a filtered respiration rate; a breathing variability measure; an in-band power of a sensor signal; a range of a sensor signal; a final respiration rate; a ratio of maximum to minimum amplitude of a breathing cycle; a high band power for a sensor signal; a mean respiration rate; a periodic leg movement activity detection; a detection of turnover; and a post-processed movement.
20. The system of claim 1 wherein the evaluation comprises classification of parameters determined from the signals, the parameters comprising one or more of a cardiac parameter, a galvanic skin response parameter, an exercise intensity parameter, a respiration parameter, a blood pressure parameter, a coughing parameter, a snoring parameter, a sleep parameter.
21. The system of claim 19 wherein the evaluation comprises a comparison of the determined parameters with historic parameters.
22. The system of claim 19 wherein the evaluation further comprises calculating mean and/or standard deviation values for a period of time from the determined parameters.
23. The system of claim 1 wherein one or more processors of the system is configured to evaluate received data detected by one or more sensors from another monitoring system.
24. The system of claim 23 wherein the evaluation of the received data comprises a determination of sensing equivalence between a plurality of health monitoring devices.
25. The system of claim 1 wherein a monitoring device comprises a setup classifier and a subject classifier, each configured to evaluate parameters from the signals to identify a person.
26. The system of claim 25 wherein the subject classifier is further configured to evaluate historic parameters to identify a person.
27. The system of claim 1 wherein a health monitoring device further comprises a camera sensitive to infra-red and an infra-red emitter.
28. The system of claim 27 wherein one or more processors of the health monitoring device are configured to detect an event from the signals and associate the event with a particular portion of a video taken with the camera including the event.
29. The system of claim 27 wherein the health monitoring device further comprises a battery and a coil for wireless charging of the battery.
30. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to control the one or more sensors to change sensor detection power, sensor frequency, sensor range gating or other control parameters for sensing, upon detection of biometric characteristics indicative of an animal.
31. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to access setting parameters for any one or more of light, sound and/or environmental appliances based on identification of a specific person associated with the setting parameters.
32. The system of claim 31 wherein the one or more processors is configured to trigger setting of any one or more of light, sound and/or environmental appliances with setting parameters associated with detected biometrics of the specific person identified.
33. The system of claim 1 further comprising a central controller in communication with a collection of said sensors, said central controller configured to provide confirmation of location of identified persons within a structure.
34. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises a night light.
35. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises a pass through outlet.
36. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises an AC plug for powering a sensor and an AC power pass through outlet.
37. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises an USB plug for powering a sensor and a USB pass through connection adapter.
38. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more sensors comprises a network interface for wireless or wired network communications.
39. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to set operation of a respiratory treatment apparatus based on the person identified.
40. The system of claim 39 wherein the set operation permits or denies therapy with the respiratory treatment apparatus.
41. The system of claim 39 wherein the set operation changes therapy of the respiratory treatment apparatus.
42. The system of claim 39 wherein the one or more processors is configured to re-train for identification of the person if biometric characteristics evaluated in the identification are treated by the respiratory treatment apparatus.
43. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to adjust operation of the one or more sensors upon determination of sensor signal quality.
44. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to rely on different biometric characteristics to identify the person depending on a quality assessment of detected biometric characteristics.
45. The system of claim 1, wherein the enrollment process further comprises a guided breathing session or spontaneous breathing session.
46. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to reject a biometric characteristic involved in identifying the person when frequency interference is detected.
47. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to set operation of an alarm based on the person identified.
48. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to identify a main user from one or more other users.
49. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to track parameters of one or more users over time to build up classification features based on at least one of the one or more respiratory parameters, cardiac parameters, or movement parameters.
50. The system of claim 49, wherein at least one of the one or more respiratory parameters, cardiac parameters, or movement parameters includes at least one of the following respiration parameters: range, breath to breath variation, shape and inspiration verses expiration ratio.
51. The system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors is configured to classify a user's identity from parameters determined in a classification process.
52. The system of claim 51 wherein the classification process comprises any one or more of a neural network, a hidden layer Markov model, logistic regression processing, linear kernel support vector machine, radial kernel support vector machine and Principal Component Analysis on the parameters prior to classification.
53. The system of claim 51 wherein the classification process includes real time parameters and offline parameters.
54. The system of claim 51 wherein the classification process includes multiple classifiers and late integration of their output to produce an output posterior probability.
55. The system of claim 1, comprising multiple sensors arranged for detecting a same or different persons, wherein the system is arranged to automatically adjust parameters of the multiple sensors, the parameters including at least one of: range, power, frequency, detection direction and radiation pattern.
56. A non-transitory processor-readable medium, having stored thereon processor-executable instructions which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to identify a person for monitoring physiological parameters of one or more persons, the processor-executable instructions comprising: instructions to access the one or more persons' physiological parameters sensed from one or more sensors, instructions to process signals from the one or more sensors to identify a person, by evaluating parameters derived from the signals comprising one or more respiratory parameters, cardiac parameters, or movement parameters, wherein the evaluating of parameters comprises analysis of detected respiration depth; and instructions to monitor the physiological parameters based on the identification of the person from the evaluating of the parameters whereby logging monitored parameters from another person as monitored parameters of the person identified is avoided, instructions to operate an enrolment process for initialization of biometric characteristics for identifying the person, wherein the enrolment process comprises a scan of data from a user's sleep session to identify fiducial points in the data and calculate classification features for generation of a biometric signature for the user; and wherein the evaluating of the parameters further comprises an assessment of the generated biometric signature.
57. The non-transitory processor-readable medium of claim 56 wherein the evaluation of parameters further comprises analysis of detected degree of in bed movement.
58. The system of claim 1 wherein the evaluation of parameters further comprises analysis of detected degree of in bed movement.
</claims>
</document>
