<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/906,G06F17/16,G06F5/01,G06N20/00,G06N20/10,G06N20/20,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TENSORDRO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEDARD, STEPHEN C.
CLERCI, JOHN M.
LANE MARK T.
POWELL, G. EDWARD
WHITE, N. EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69528445
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and methods for data evaluation through network sensitivity analysis
</title>

<abstract>
A data evaluation method includes a processor receiving data sets N, each of which has one or more parameters, applying the data sets N to a machine learning model and generating observations on the data sets N; and executing a network sensitivity analysis (NSA) that includes generating a N NSA curve for each of k distinct parameters in the N data sets including computing an observation ON with the data sets, and generating a N−j NSA curve for each of the of the k distinct parameters. Generating a N−J NSA curve includes removing the jth data set from the N data sets and computing an observation ONj. Executing the NSA further includes determining a contribution of a jth data set based on the k N NSA curves and the k N−j NSA curves; and computing a relative strength Sj of each of the N data sets.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented data evaluation method, comprising: a processor receiving a plurality of N data sets, each of the N data sets comprising one or more parameters; the processor identifying, in the plurality of N data sets, a relative contribution of each of the one or more parameters, comprising: the processor applying the plurality of N data sets, where N=i . . . j . . . n, to a neural network and generating one or more observations O on the plurality of N data sets; the processor executing a network sensitivity analysis (NSA), comprising: transforming the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets into ranked data sets of k distinct input parameters in the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets, generating a N NSA curve for each of the plurality k of distinct input parameters in the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets, comprising computing an observation ON with all the N data sets for each of the k input parameters, generating a N−j NSA curve for each of the plurality of k distinct input parameters, comprising: removing the jth data set from the N data sets; and generating, using the neural network, an observation ON−j with the jth data set removed, generating a measure Mj of a contribution of a jth data set based on the k N NSA curves and the k N−j NSA curves; generating a relative strength Sj of each of the N data sets as a function of the measure Mj; and predicting and displaying one or more most significant parameters of the k distinct input parameters in the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets and providing the relative strength Si of one or more of the N data sets.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising the processor executing a training routine and a testing routine to train the model and to validate the model, comprising: selecting a first subset of data from the plurality of data sets N as training data and a second subset of data from the data sets N as test data; dividing the training data into K groups; generating a NSA curve for each of the K groups without an rth data set, whereby K training NSA curves are developed; and determining a weight for each of the K data sets.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: ranking each of the j data sets based on a contribution of the of jth data set; and providing a ranking notification to a data set provider of the j data sets.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising the processor pre-conditioning one or more data instances in one or more of the plurality of data sets N including replacing missing parameter values, and scaling and normalizing parameter values.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the measure Mj is generated by taking an absolute value of a difference of areas under the N NSA curves and the N−j NSA curves.
6. The method of claim 1, the measure Mj of the data set contribution is generated using the root mean squared difference between samples used to generate the NSA curves multiplied by the range of the ith input parameter.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the measure Mj of the data set contribution is generated using the absolute percentage difference between samples used to generate the NSA curves multiplied by the range of the ith input parameter.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the processor: for each input parameter; sorting all vectors of variables in the data set according to that parameter; sorting the vectors into vector groups of approximately equal size; generating an average of the input parameter and computing a normalized mean output for each vector group; repeating the process for every input parameter; and ranking the input parameters by their impact on the observations O.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising the processor: receiving an additional data set P, wherein the processor re-executes the NSA using the combined data sets N and P.
10. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium having encoded thereon machine instructions that when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive a plurality of data sets N, each of the N data sets comprising one or more parameters; identify in the plurality of N data sets, a dative contribution of one or more of the one or more parameters; apply the plurality of N data sets to a neural network and generate one or more observations O on the plurality of N data sets; execute a network sensitivity analysis (NSA) in which the processor: transforms the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets into ranked data sets of k distinct input parameters in the N=i . . . j . . . n data sets, generates a N NSA curve for each of a plurality k of distinct input parameters in the N data sets by generating an observation ON with the N data sets, generates a N−j NSA curve for each of the plurality of k distinct input parameters in which the processor: removes the jth data set from the N data sets; and generates, using the neural network, an observation ON−j with the jth data set removed, generates a measure Mj of a contribution of a jth data set based on the k N NSA curves and the k N−j NSA curves; generates a relative strength Sj of each of the N data sets as a function of the measure Mj; and predicts and causes display of one or more most significant parameters of the k distinct input parameters n the N data sets and provides the relative strength Si of one or more of the N data sets.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising the processor executing the machine instructions to: rank each of the j data sets based on a contribution of the of jth data set; and provide a ranking notification to a data set provider for the contribution of the j data sets.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising the processor executing the machine instructions to pre-condition one or more data instances in one or more of the plurality of N data sets.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising the processor executing the machine instructions to generate the measure Mj by taking an absolute value of a difference of an area under the N NSA curves and the N−j NSA curves.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the processor executes machine instructions to generate a relative contribution of each of one or more input parameters, comprising the processor: for each input parameter, sorting all vectors of variables in the data set according to that parameter; sorting the vectors into vector groups of approximately equal size; computing an average of the input parameter and computing a normalized mean output for each vector group; repeating the process for every input parameter; and ranking the input parameters by their impact on the observation O.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising receiving an additional data set P, wherein the processor re-executes the NSA using the combined data sets N and P.
16. A method for evaluating the relative contribution of an individual data set Nj in a plurality of data sets N(i . . . j . . . n) to a problem solution O, the data sets N(i . . . j . . . n) processed and applied to a machine learning model, the method comprising: a processor executing a network sensitivity analysis (NSA), comprising: generating a N NSA curve for each of a plurality distinct input parameters in the data sets N(i . . . j . . . n), comprising computing a solution ON with all of the data sets N(i . . . j . . . n), generating a N−j NSA curve for each of the plurality of distinct input parameters, comprising: removing the jth data set from the data sets N(i . . . j . . . n); and generating a solution ON−j with the jth data set removed, determining a measure Mj of a contribution of a jth data set based on a difference between the N NSA curves and the N−j NSA curves; and generating and providing for display, one or more most significant parameters in the data sets, and generating and providing a relative strength Sj of each of the N(i . . . n) data sets as a function of the measure Mi.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising the processor: ranking each of the j data sets N(i . . . j . . . n) based on a contribution of the of jth data set; and providing a ranking notification to a data set provider for the contributions of one or more of the j data sets.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising the processor: for each input parameter, sorting all vectors of variables in the data set according to that parameter; sorting the vectors into vector groups of approximately equal size; computing an average of the input parameter and computing a normalized mean output for each vector group; repeating the process for every input parameter; and ranking the input parameters by their impact on the solution O.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising the processor: receiving an additional data set P, wherein the processor re-executes the NSA using the combined data sets N and P.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising scaling and normalizing the input parameters.
</claims>
</document>
