<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
WANG, XIAOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62782464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive channel state information reference signal configurations for a 5G wireless communication network or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
In mixed numerology case, the performance of a physical downlink shared channel (PDSCH) can be improved by multiplexing PDSCH of one numerology with the channel state information reference signals (CSI-RS) of the other numerology and use of an advanced receiver. However, due to the interference from the PDSCH of the other numerology, the channel estimation for the underlying UE can be impacted if the CSI-RS is corrupted. An adaptive CSI-RS configuration can be deployed where the CSI-RS density is adapted based on the PDSCH transmission of the other numerology. Namely, based on the scheduling decision of the other numerology, the CSI-RS density can be changed. Thus, the impact on channel estimation can be minimized when the data channel of one numerology is multiplexed with the CSI-RS of the other numerology.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: based on a physical downlink shared channel location associated with a subcarrier spacing, adjusting, by network equipment comprising a processor, a number of reference symbols associated with channel state information reference signals, resulting in an adjusted number of the reference symbols, wherein the adjusting increases a density of the channel state information reference signals in relation to the physical downlink shared channel location; based on the adjusted number of the reference symbols, configuring, by the network equipment, a resource block associated with the subcarrier spacing, resulting in a resource block pattern, wherein the configuring comprises generating a time value for use with the adjusted number of the reference symbols, and wherein the resource block is allocated for a transmission of channel state information; and in response to multiplexing a physical downlink shared channel with the channel state information reference signals, indicating, by the network equipment, the density of the channel state information reference signals on the resource block in relation to the physical downlink shared channel location.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network equipment, the resource block pattern of the reference symbols to a mobile device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network equipment, the time value of the reference symbols to a mobile device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network equipment, the adjusted number of the reference symbols to a mobile device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the sending the adjusted number of the reference symbols further comprises: sending a request to send the channel state information reference signals at an aperiodic time interval.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of reference symbols comprises a channel quality indicator representative of a quality of a channel between network devices.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: requesting, by the network equipment, to send the channel state information, associated with the channel state information reference signals, to a mobile device.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the network equipment, instruction data indicative of an instruction to send the channel state information at a time interval.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the time interval is an irregular time interval.
10. Network equipment, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a physical downlink shared channel of a subcarrier spacing, adjusting variable reference symbols of channel state data reference signals, resulting in adjusted variable reference symbols of the channel state data reference signals, wherein the adjusting increases a density of the channel state data reference signals in relation to a location of the physical downlink channel; based on the adjusted variable reference symbols, configuring a resource block associated with the subcarrier spacing, resulting in a resource block pattern, wherein the resource block is allocated for a transmission of channel state data; and in response to multiplexing the physical downlink shared channel with the channel state data reference signals, indicating the density of the channel state data reference signals on the resource block in relation to the location.
11. The network equipment of claim 10, wherein the adjusting comprises increasing a number of the variable reference symbols of the channel state data reference signals.
12. The network equipment of claim 10, wherein the adjusting comprises modifying a number of the variable reference symbols of the channel state data reference signals.
13. The network equipment of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: sending data associated with the adjusted variable reference symbols of the channel state data reference signals to a mobile device.
14. The network equipment of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting data associated with the resource block pattern to a mobile device.
15. The network equipment of claim 14, wherein the transmitting the data comprises transmitting the data to the mobile device via a physical layer signaling.
16. The network equipment of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: based on an on-demand request, requesting to send the channel state data to a mobile device.
17. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a physical downlink shared channel location of a subcarrier spacing, increasing symbols of channel state data reference signals, resulting in additional symbols of the channel state data reference signals other than the symbols of the channel state data reference signals wherein the increasing increases a density of the channel state data reference signals in relation to the physical downlink shared channel location; in response to the increasing the symbols of the channel state data reference signals, configuring a resource block associated with the subcarrier spacing, resulting in a resource block pattern associated with a time value for use of the additional symbols, wherein the resource block is allocated for a transmission of channel state data; and in response to multiplexing a physical downlink shared channel with the channel state data reference signals, specifying the density of the channel state data reference signals on the resource block in relation to the physical downlink shared channel location.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: transmitting data associated with the additional symbols of the channel state data reference signals, the resource block pattern, and the time value to a mobile device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: scheduling the subcarrier spacing within a first part of an orthogonal frequency division multiplexing bandwidth.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the subcarrier spacing is a first subcarrier spacing, and wherein the operations further comprise: deploying a second subcarrier spacing, wherein the second subcarrier spacing is different from the first subcarrier spacing.
</claims>
</document>
