<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/435,H04N21/25,H04N21/258,H04N21/437,H04N21/442,H04N21/466,H04N21/658
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEGEJA, LEE
GIBBON, DAVID CRAWFORD
LIU ZHU
RENGER, BERNARD S.
SHAHRARAY, BEHZAD
ZAVESKY, ERIC
GOPALAN, RAGHURAMAN
XU, TAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68160958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for content curation
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, modifying a user profile associated with a user associated with a content service to generate an updated user profile according to consumption of media content by the user and user feedback information associated with the consumption of the media content, determining a user context according to information associated with user device, where the user context includes current activity of the user, modifying a set of media content according to the user context that is determined to generate an updated set of media content, where a type of media content is eliminated from the set of media content in the updated set of media content according to the user context, and presenting the updated set of content at a presentation device of the user via a personal media channel of the user associated with the content service. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: monitoring viewing of media content by a user associated with a content service; accessing user feedback information associated with the viewing of the media content, wherein the user feedback information is based on an implicit user reaction to viewing the media content, and wherein the implicit user reaction includes viewing simultaneous media content; modifying a user profile associated with the user to generate an updated user profile according to the viewing of the media content and the user feedback information associated with the viewing of the media content; selecting a set of media content for a personal media channel associated with the user according to the updated user profile; determining a user context according to information associated with a user device of the user, wherein the user context includes current activity of the user; determining neighbors having a similar context; applying machine learning to the user context and context of neighbors to infer user moods and desires; modifying the set of media content according to the user moods and desires to generate an updated set of viewable media content, wherein a type of media content is eliminated from the set of media content in the updated set of viewable media content according to the user context and the neighbors with the similar context, and wherein the type of media content eliminated from the set of media content corresponds to a format of the type of media content, a delivery scheme of the type of media content, or a combination thereof; and presenting the updated set of viewable media content at a presentation device of the user via the personal media channel of the user associated with the content service.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the implicit user reaction includes skipping a portion of the media content.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the modifying of the set of media content is further according to a change in the user context.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the user feedback information is further based on explicit user reaction to the media content.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the set of media content includes full length content, segments of content, content clips, personally generated content, or any combination thereof.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the user context further includes a user location, a time at the user location, environmental characteristics of the user location, capabilities of the user device, or any combination thereof, and wherein the neighbors are located close to the user location.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein viewing the simultaneous media content includes tuning to regular channels while the media content is being played.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the user context further includes a user mood.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the set of media content includes a first media content item that is selected based on a presentation limitation.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the presentation limitation is associated with a capability of the user device.
11. The device of claim 9, wherein the presentation limitation is associated with the current activity of the user.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the set of media content is further modified by adding advertising according to the user context.
13. The device of claim 1, wherein the presentation device is the user device, wherein the personal media channel is a television channel provided to the user device by the content service.
14. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise identifying an event associated with a social media service that is federated with the content service, wherein the set of media content is further modified by adding a second media content item according to the event responsive to the identifying of the event.
15. A method, comprising: modifying, by a processing system including a processor, a user profile associated with a user associated with a content service to generate an updated user profile according to viewing of media content by the user and user feedback information associated with the viewing of the media content, wherein the user feedback information is based on an implicit user reaction to the media content, and wherein the implicit user reaction includes viewing simultaneous media content; selecting, by the processing system, a set of media content for a personal media channel associated with the user according to the updated user profile; determining, by the processing system, a user context according to information associated with user device, wherein the user context includes current activity of the user; determining, by the processing system, neighbors having a similar context; applying machine learning, by the processing system, to the user context and context of neighbors to infer user moods and desires; modifying, by the processing system, the set of media content according to the user moods and desires to generate an updated set of media content, wherein a type of media content is eliminated from the set of media content in the updated set of media content according to the user context and the neighbors with the similar context, and wherein the type of media content eliminated from the set of media content corresponds to a format of the type of media content, a delivery scheme of the type of media content, or a combination thereof; and presenting, by the processing system, the updated set of media content at a presentation device of the user via the personal media channel of the user associated with the content service.
16. The method of claim 15, comprising: monitoring, by the processing system, the viewing of the media content by the user associated with the content service; and accessing, by the processing system, the user feedback information associated with the viewing of the media content, wherein the user feedback information is based on the implicit user reaction to the media content.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the implicit user reaction includes skipping a portion of the media content, and wherein the modifying of the set of media content is further according to a change in the user context.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the set of media content includes a first media content item that is selected based on a presentation limitation associated with the current activity of the user.
19. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: modifying a user profile associated with a user associated with a content service to generate an updated user profile according to viewing of media content by the user and user feedback information associated with the viewing of the media content, wherein the user feedback information is based on an implicit user reaction to the media content, and wherein the implicit user reaction includes viewing simultaneous media content; determining a user context according to information associated with a user device, wherein the user context includes current activity of the user; determining neighbors having a similar context; applying machine learning to the user context and context of neighbors to infer user moods and desires; modifying a set of media content according to the user moods and desires to generate an updated set of media content, wherein a type of media content is eliminated from the set of media content in the updated set of media content according to the user context and the neighbors with the similar context, and wherein the type of media content eliminated from the set of media content corresponds to a format of the type of media content, a delivery scheme of the type of media content, or a combination thereof; and presenting the updated set of media content at a presentation device of the user via a personal media channel of the user associated with the content service.
20. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the modifying of the set of media content is further according to a change in the user context, and wherein the personal media channel is a television channel provided to the user device by the content service.
</claims>
</document>
