<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/35,G06Q20/40,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CA
C A TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, COREY
GIRAL, ERHAN
LIN, CUI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65437333
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Page journey determination from fingerprint information in web event journals
</title>

<abstract>
Large amounts of data from user interactions with web resources is available as data logs. Analysis may be performed to process the data log in order to determine the characteristics of the user interactions. Data log analysis may include identifying page states, which may be sets of frequent attributes and values that occur together in a session. The data log analysis may also include generating semantic labels of page states, which may describe the function of pages corresponding to different page states. Text mining models may be used to determine the semantic labels. Analysis may also include aggregating sets of page paths to create page journeys. These page journeys may be aggregated over all users, all user sessions, or other subsets of the clickstream. In some embodiments, comparing page journeys may provide recommendations for potential methods to improve the site and enhance user experiences.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: processing, by a computer system, a data log that includes entries corresponding to interactions between a plurality of users and a set of web resources that are at least partially interlinked, wherein the processing includes: identifying, using fingerprint values included in the data log, groups of entries, wherein each group of entries corresponds to a particular user session; analyzing the groups of entries for common attributes to determine groups that correspond to different sessions of ones of the plurality of users; based on the analyzing, creating aggregated groups, each corresponding to a particular user, and wherein a particular aggregated group includes entries corresponding to different sessions of a particular one of the plurality of users; and using the aggregated groups to create page journey information for the plurality of users, wherein creating the page journey information includes: identifying page states accessed during a user session; identifying page paths through two or more page states; and aggregating at least two identified page paths.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein ones of the fingerprint values are generated by: determining a set of attributes from entries of the data log that identify a user session; and aggregating the set of attributes to produce fingerprint values usable to perform the identifying.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular aggregated group includes a first entry corresponding to a first transaction of the particular user, and wherein the particular aggregated group includes a second entry corresponding to a second transaction of the particular user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular aggregated group includes a first entry corresponding to a first device of the particular user, and wherein the particular aggregated group includes a second entry corresponding to a second device of the particular user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein creating page journey information includes classifying attributes within entries in the data log based on a frequency of occurrence of attribute-value pairs, the attribute-value pairs having an attribute with an associated attribute value.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining groups of entries corresponding to different sessions of ones of the plurality of users is based on the groups of entries having more than a threshold number of attributes.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of web resources corresponds to portions of a website, and wherein the data log is a set of clickstream data from a plurality of users that have visited the website.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that are executable by a computing system to perform operations comprising: processing a data log that includes entries corresponding to interactions between a plurality of users and a set of web resources that are at least partially interlinked, wherein the processing includes: identifying, using fingerprint values included in the data log, groups of entries, wherein each group corresponds to a particular user session; analyzing the groups of entries for common attributes to determine groups that correspond to different sessions of ones of the plurality of users; based on the analyzing, creating aggregated groups, each corresponding to a particular user, and wherein a particular aggregated group includes entries corresponding to different sessions of a particular one of the plurality of users; and using the aggregated groups to create page journey information for the plurality of users, wherein creating the page journey information includes: identifying page states accessed during a user session; identifying page paths through two or more page states; and aggregating at least two identified page paths.
9. The medium of claim 8, wherein the instructions are further executable to process a second data log, wherein a format of the second data log is different from a format of the data log, and wherein the processing is done without user input specifying the format of the second data log.
10. The medium of claim 8, wherein ones of the fingerprint values are generated by the set of web resources and included in the data log.
11. The medium of claim 10, wherein ones of the fingerprint values include a fingerprint attribute of the set of web resources, wherein a value associated with the fingerprint attribute corresponds to a specific user.
12. The medium of claim 8, wherein ones of the fingerprint values are generated by: determining a set of attributes from entries of the data log that identify a user session; and aggregating the set of attributes to produce fingerprint values usable to perform the identifying.
13. The medium of claim 12, wherein the determined attributes include at least one of web browser, screen resolution, or geographical location.
14. The medium of claim 8, wherein the particular aggregated group includes a first entry corresponding to a first device of the particular user, and wherein the particular aggregated group includes a second entry corresponding to a second device of the particular user.
15. A method, comprising: processing, by a computer system, a data log that includes entries corresponding to interactions between a plurality of users and a set of web resources that are at least partially interlinked, wherein the processing includes: grouping entries in the data log to create first groups of entries that correspond to particular user sessions; aggregating ones of the first groups of entries into second groups of entries that correspond to particular users of the plurality of users, wherein the aggregating is performed such that at least one of the second groups of entries includes entries for multiple sessions of a particular user; and creating page journey information for different sets of the plurality of users, wherein the sets are based on ones of the users having one or more characteristics identified as shared, wherein the one or more characteristics are identified as shared based on attributes of page states associated with user sessions corresponding to the particular users.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: identifying characteristics shared by users corresponding to different ones of the second groups of entries, wherein the identifying characteristics shared by users is based on a common set of page states; grouping ones of the second groups of entries into third groups of entries corresponding to users having shared characteristics; and using the third groups to create page journey information for different sets of the plurality of users.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more characteristics are identified as shared based on information from a second data log, and wherein the second data log includes information corresponding to user identity and user characteristics.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more characteristics include at least one of income level, age range, or gender.
</claims>
</document>
