<document>

<filing_date>
2015-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C12Q1/18,G01N21/33
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPECTROMICS
SPECTROMICS LIMITED C/O V J HANCOCK & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOODACRE, ROY
UPTON, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50482833
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of analysing a sample including a microorganism of interest
</title>

<abstract>
A method of analysing a sample including a microorganism of interest. The method includes exposing the sample to an antimicrobial; after exposing the sample to the antimicrobial, applying an absorption-based and/or scattering-based spectroscopic technique to the sample to obtain spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antimicrobial, wherein applying the absorption-based and/or scattering-based spectroscopic technique to the sample includes irradiating the sample with UV-Vis radiation; obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the microorganism of interest to the antimicrobial from the spectrum data. The absorption-based and/or scattering-based spectroscopic technique may be applied to the sample no more than 60 minutes after the initial exposure of the sample to the antimicrobial. The method may be useful to obtain information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of a bacterium, such as a bacterium responsible for causing a UTI, to an antibiotic in a rapid and reliable manner.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of analysing a sample including a bacterium of interest, the method including: exposing the sample to an antibiotic; after exposing the sample to the antibiotic, applying an absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the sample to obtain spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antibiotic, wherein applying the absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the sample includes irradiating the sample with UV Vis radiation having wavelengths in the range 200 nm to 800 nm; obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectrum data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic; wherein the absorption-based spectroscopic technique is applied to the sample no more than 60 minutes after the initial exposure of the sample to the antibiotic.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the absorption-based spectroscopic technique is applied to the sample no more than 10 minutes after the initial exposure of the sample to the antibiotic.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the spectroscopic technique uses electromagnetic radiation covering 50% or more of the range 200 nm to 800 nm.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sample is an uncultured sample.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from the spectrum data includes: using multiple data points within the spectrum data to obtain spectral profile data which represents the spectral profile of the spectrum data; and obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectral profile data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic.
6. The method according to claim 5, wherein the spectral profile data are obtained according to an unsupervised computational technique, with the multiple data points within the spectrum data being used as inputs for the unsupervised computational technique.
7. The method according to claim 5, wherein the information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic is obtained from the spectral profile data by applying a model to the spectral profile data.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the model is a supervised model that has been produced using labelled training data.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes: before and after exposing the sample to the antibiotic, applying the spectroscopic technique to the sample to obtain spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antibiotic.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes: before and after exposing the sample to the antibiotic, applying the spectroscopic technique to the sample to obtain delta spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antibiotic, wherein the delta spectrum data represents post-exposure spectrum data relative to pre-exposure spectrum data.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic includes an indication of whether the bacterium is susceptible or resistant to the antibiotic.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic includes an indication of a mechanism of resistance of the bacterium to the antibiotic.
13. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sample is liquid.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sample includes or derives from material obtained from a patient, wherein the material obtained from the patient includes the bacterium of interest.
15. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method includes: obtaining material from a patient, wherein the material includes the bacterium of interest; and preparing the sample using the material obtained from a patient.
16. The pre-analysis method for facilitating subsequent obtaining of information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of a bacterium of interest to an antibiotic, the pre-analysis method including: providing a plurality of reference samples, wherein each reference sample includes a respective reference bacterium, wherein each reference bacterium is of known susceptibility/resistance to the antibiotic and has biochemical properties which are related to those of the bacterium of interest; for each reference sample: exposing the reference sample to the antibiotic; after exposing the reference sample to the antibiotic, applying an absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the reference sample to obtain reference spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antibiotic; and obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the reference bacterium to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectrum data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic wherein applying the absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectrum data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic sample includes irradiating the sample with UV Vis radiation having wavelengths in the range 200 nm to 800 nm, wherein the absorption-based spectroscopic technique is applied to the reference sample no more than 60 minutes after the initial exposure of the reference sample to the antibiotic.
17. A method of analysing a sample including a bacterium of interest, the method including: exposing the sample to an antibiotic; after exposing the sample to the antibiotic, applying an absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the sample to obtain spectrum data whose spectral profile has been influenced by exposing the sample to the antibiotic, wherein applying the absorption-based spectroscopic technique to the sample includes irradiating the sample with UV Vis radiation having wavelengths in the range 200 nm to 800 nm; obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectrum data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic; wherein the absorption-based spectroscopic technique is applied to the sample no more than 60 minutes after the initial exposure of the sample to the antibiotic; wherein the spectroscopic technique uses electromagnetic radiation covering 50% or more of the range 200 nm to 800 nm; wherein obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from the spectrum data includes: using multiple data points within the spectrum data to obtain spectral profile data which represents the spectral profile of the spectrum data; and obtaining information regarding the susceptibility/resistance of the bacterium of interest to the antibiotic from a phenotypic effect in the spectral profile data caused by exposing the sample to the antibiotic; wherein the spectral profile data are obtained according to an unsupervised computational technique, with the multiple data points within the spectrum data being used as inputs for the unsupervised computational technique.
</claims>
</document>
