<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61B5/1473,A61B5/1486,A61B5/1495,G01D18/00,G01N27/02,G01N27/327,G01N33/49,G08B21/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEXCOM
</assignee>

<inventors>
RONG, DAITING
BOHM, SEBASTIAN
SIMPSON, PETER, C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
47006011
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Advanced analyte sensor calibration and error detection
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for processing sensor data and self-calibration are provided. In some embodiments, systems and methods are provided which are capable of calibrating a continuous analyte sensor based on an initial sensitivity, and then continuously performing self-calibration without using, or with reduced use of, reference measurements. In certain embodiments, a sensitivity of the analyte sensor is determined by applying an estimative algorithm that is a function of certain parameters. Also described herein are systems and methods for determining a property of an analyte sensor using a stimulus signal. The sensor property can be used to compensate sensor data for sensitivity drift, or determine another property associated with the sensor, such as temperature, sensor membrane damage, moisture ingress in sensor electronics, and scaling factors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of making an analyte concentration measuring system for use by a host during a sensor session with a transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, the method comprising: applying a membrane located over at least a portion of an electrode of the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is configured to generate a signal indicative of an analyte concentration, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor comprises: an ex vivo portion configured to remain outside of a body of the host during the sensor session; and an in vivo portion configured to be inserted into the body of the host and remain, during the sensor session, in the body of the host; obtaining data associated with a plurality of sensor characteristics of the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor prior to the sensor session, wherein obtaining the data comprises at least: measuring a first sensor characteristic, wherein the first sensor characteristic is associated with an in vitro glucose sensitivity corresponding to a sample set of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors; measuring a second sensor characteristic, wherein the second sensor characteristic is associated with a thickness of the membrane of the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor; and assigning one or more calibration codes to the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, wherein the one or more calibration codes is based at least in part on the measured first sensor characteristic associated with the in vitro glucose sensitivity and the measured second sensor characteristic associated with the thickness of the membrane.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more calibration codes are part of a calibration encoded label.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is formed as a wire.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising measuring a length of time the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor was dipped in a particular coating solution, and wherein the one or more calibration codes are further based at least in part on the measured dipping length of time.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is planar.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample set of transcutaneous electrochemical sensors comprises the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sample set of transcutaneous electrochemical sensors and the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor are from a same sensor lot.
8. A method, comprising: determining a sample sensitivity associated with a sample set, wherein the sample set comprises a plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors, wherein the sample set is part of a sensor lot, wherein each transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor of the plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors of the sample set, comprises: an ex vivo portion configured to remain outside of a body of a host during a sensor session; and an in vivo portion configured to be inserted into the body of the host and remain, during the sensor session, in the body of the host; determining an adjustment factor for a first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, wherein the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is from the sensor lot, wherein the adjustment factor is associated with a parameter that affects sensor sensitivity; determining a sensor sensitivity for the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor based at least in part on the sample sensitivity and the adjustment factor; and calibrating sensor data, generated by the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, based at least in part on the determined sensor sensitivity.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the parameter is associated with a membrane thickness of the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is planar.
11. A method, comprising: determining a sample sensitivity associated with a sample set, wherein the sample set comprises a plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors, wherein the sample set is part of a sensor lot, wherein each transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor of the plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors of the sample set, comprises: an ex vivo portion configured to remain outside of a body of the host during a sensor session; and an in vivo portion configured to be inserted into the body of the host and remain, during the sensor session, in the body of the host; determining a first adjustment factor for a first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor in the sensor lot, wherein the first adjustment factor is associated with a first parameter that affects sensor sensitivity; determining a second adjustment factor for the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor in the sensor lot, wherein the second adjustment factor is associated with a second parameter that affects sensor sensitivity, wherein the second parameter is different from the first parameter; determining a sensor sensitivity for the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor based at least in part on the sample sensitivity, the first adjustment factor, and the second adjustment factor; and calibrating sensor data, generated by the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, based at least in part on the determined sensor sensitivity.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first parameter and the second parameter are associated with at least one property of a membrane associated with the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first parameter is associated with a membrane thickness of the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the second parameter is associated with an enzyme-related property of the membrane.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the first transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is planar.
16. An analyte sensor system comprising: a transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor from a sensor lot, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor comprises: a first portion configured to be disposed ex vivo during a sensor session; and a second portion configured to be disposed in vivo during the sensor session, wherein the second portion comprises: an electrode configured to generate a signal associated with an analyte concentration; and a membrane disposed over at least a portion of the electrode; and sensor electronics operably connectable to the first portion of the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, wherein the sensor electronics comprise information associated with sensor calibration, wherein the information associated with sensor calibration is determined based at least in part on: a sensor sensitivity associated with a sample set, wherein the sample set comprises a plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors, wherein the plurality of transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensors are from the sensor lot; and an adjustment factor for the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor, wherein the adjustment factor is associated with a parameter that affects sensor sensitivity.
17. The analyte sensor system of claim 16, wherein the adjustment factor is associated with a thickness of the membrane of the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor.
18. The analyte sensor system of claim 16, further comprising a receiver.
19. The analyte sensor system of claim 18, wherein the receiver is configured to: receive, from the sensor electronics, the information associated with sensor calibration; receive, from the sensor electronics, sensor data indicative of an analyte concentration; and determine an estimated glucose value based at least in part on the sensor data and the information associated with sensor calibration.
20. The analyte sensor system of claim 16, wherein the information associated with sensor calibration is a calibration code.
21. The analyte sensor system of claim 16, wherein the transcutaneous electrochemical analyte sensor is planar.
</claims>
</document>
