<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9538,G06F40/103,G06F9/44,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q30/06,G06T19/20,G06T5/00,G06T5/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Leap Tools Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ghiaus, Stefan-Alexandru
Susanu, Vlad Cristian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72944802
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for product visualization using a single-page application
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for visualizing products in a single-page application. Consistent with disclosed embodiments, an application system can receive from a client system, during rendering of a webpage received by the client system from a host system, a request for a script associated with the host system. The script can be executable by the client system to perform operations including modifying the webpage to include a visualization application in response to a selection of a visualization control in the webpage by a user of the client system. Consistent with disclosed embodiments, the application system can receive, from the visualization application, a request to display a product in a first image. A location can be identified in the first image using a machine learning model. Instructions can be provided to the visualization application for displaying the product at the location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for visualizing products in a single-page application, comprising: receiving, by an application system from a client system during rendering of a webpage received by the client system from a host system, a request for a script associated with the host system, the script executable by the client system to perform operations comprising: modifying the webpage to include a visualization application in response to a selection of a visualization control in the webpage by a user of the client system; receiving, by the application system from the visualization application, a request to display a product in a first image; identifying a location in the first image using a machine learning model; and providing instructions to the visualization application for displaying the product at the location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the script is executable by the client system to perform additional operations comprising: generating an identifier from information extracted from the webpage; querying the application system for product availability information using the identifier; and modifying the webpage to include the visualization control in response to receiving the product availability information from the application system.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises: receiving, by the application system after rendering of the webpage, a query for the product availability information; and providing, by the application system in response to the query, the product availability information.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the location in the first image using the machine learning model comprises: providing the first image to a convolutional neural network selected based on at least one of a type of the product, the webpage, or the host system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the location in the first image using the machine learning model further comprises: determining a perspective and scale of the first image.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the location in the first image further comprises: classifying pixels in the first image as corresponding to a surface depicted in the first image.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the surface is a wall, counter, or floor of a room depicted in the first image.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: the method further comprises generating a third image by painting a second image of the product into the first image at the location; and the instructions comprise the third image.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein painting the second image of the product comprises: classifying pixels in the first image as corresponding to a surface depicted in the first image; and replacing the classified pixels in the first image with corresponding pixels of the second image.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: receiving the first image from the client system.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein: the script is executable by the client system to establish a session for the user using a first-party cookie; and the application system uses information associated with the session to obtain the first image.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the instructions include a three-dimensional model of the product and metadata specifying scaling and placement of the three-dimensional model in the first image.
13. A system for visualizing products in a single-page application, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory containing first instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform operations comprising: receiving a webpage from a host system; modifying the webpage to include a visualization application in response to a selection of a visualization control in the webpage by a user of the system; providing, to an application system in response to user interactions with the visualization application, a request to display a product in a first image; and receiving, from the application system, second instructions for displaying the product.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: extracting information from the webpage, the extracted information including product information or vendor information; generating an identifier using the extracted information; and querying the application system for product availability information using the identifier.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: modifying the webpage to include the visualization control in response to receiving the product availability information from the application system.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein a type of the visualization control depends on a type of the product availability information.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the webpage displays multiple products and modifying the webpage to include the visualization control includes modifying the webpage to include visualization controls for at least some of the multiple products.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein modifying the webpage to include the visualization control comprises unhiding the visualization control or adding the visualization control to a document object model of the webpage.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise: providing the first image to the application system or providing an indication of the first image to the application system.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the host system is associated with a retailer and the application system is associated with a visualization services provider.
21. The system of claim 13, wherein receiving second instructions to display the product comprises: receiving a third image generated by painting a second image of the product into the first image at a location identified by a machine learning model.
22. The system of claim 13, wherein receiving second instructions to display the product comprises: receiving a three-dimensional model of the product and metadata specifying scaling and placement of the three-dimensional model at a location in the first image.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise: updating, in response to user interactions with the visualization application, a position or orientation of the displayed product in the first image using the three-dimensional model.
</claims>
</document>
