<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L9/00,H04L9/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
YING, PENGFEI
YIN, SHAN
WANG, HUAZHONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66100047
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed multi-party security model training framework for privacy protection
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on computer storage media, for training a multi-party secure logistic regression model (SLRM). One of the methods includes receiving, at a plurality of secure computation nodes (SCNs), a plurality of random numbers from a random number provider; encrypting, at each SCN, data stored at the SCN using the received random numbers; iteratively updating a secure logistic regression model (SLRM) by using the encrypted data from each SCN; and after iteratively updating the SLRM, outputting a result of the SLRM, wherein the result is configured to enable a service to be performed by each SCN.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for training multi-party secure logistic regression models, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a first secure computation node (SCN) of a plurality of secure computation nodes (SCNs), a first random number of a plurality of random numbers from a random number provider; encrypting, by the first SCN, data stored at the SCN using the first random number to generate a first encrypted data; transmitting, by the first SCN, the first encrypted data to a second SCN of the plurality of SCNs; receiving, by the first SCN and from the second SCN, a second encrypted data that was encrypted using a second random number of the plurality of random numbers from the random number provider; iteratively updating, by the first SCN, a secure logistic regression model (SLRM) by using the first encrypted data and the second encrypted data to generate an interim computation result that is divided into a plurality of shares that are transmitted to the plurality of SCNs to be used as subsequent inputs for the SLRM to determine a column vector of a prediction error as a difference between a sigmoid fitting function applied to a respective share and a label of a sample of a mini batch of a Stochastic Gradient Descent method, each of the plurality of shares hiding original data such that the original data cannot be recovered by using a single share of the plurality of shares; and after iteratively updating the SLRM, outputting a result of the SLRM, wherein the result is configured to enable a service to be performed by each SCN of the plurality of SCNs.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each random number is at least one of a number, a vector, or a matrix.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the random numbers is generated by a third-party agent.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM is based on a Secret Sharing (SS) scheme.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM comprises: receiving a notification that a portion of a service process is completed; and in response to receiving the notification, initiating a second portion of the service process.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to receiving a plurality of random numbers from the random number provider, initializing parameters associated with the SLRM.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM continues until a difference between two consecutive iteration results is less than a predetermined threshold.
8. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a first secure computation node (SCN) of a plurality of secure computation nodes (SCNs), a first random number of a plurality of random numbers from a random number provider; encrypting, by the first SCN, data stored at the SCN using the first random number to generate a first encrypted data; transmitting, by the first SCN, the first encrypted data to a second SCN of the plurality of SCNs; receiving, by the first SCN and from the second SCN, a second encrypted data that was encrypted using a second random number of the plurality of random numbers from the random number provider; iteratively updating, by the first SCN, a secure logistic regression model (SLRM) by using the first encrypted data and the second encrypted data to generate an interim computation result that is divided into a plurality of shares that are transmitted to the plurality of SCNs to be used as subsequent inputs for the SLRM to determine a column vector of a prediction error as a difference between a sigmoid fitting function applied to a respective share and a label of a sample of a mini batch of a Stochastic Gradient Descent method, each of the plurality of shares hiding original data such that the original data cannot be recovered by using a single share of the plurality of shares; and after iteratively updating the SLRM, outputting a result of the SLRM, wherein the result is configured to enable a service to be performed by each SCN of the plurality of SCNs.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein each random number is at least one of a number, a vector, or a matrix.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein at least one of the random numbers is generated by a third-party agent.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM is based on a Secret Sharing (SS) scheme.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM comprises: receiving a notification that a portion of a service process is completed; and in response to receiving the notification, initiating a second portion of the service process.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, the operations comprising: prior to receiving the plurality of random numbers from the random number provider, initializing parameters associated with the SLRM.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM continues until a difference between two consecutive iteration results is less than a predetermined threshold.
15. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: receiving, receiving, by a first secure computation node (SCN) of a plurality of secure computation nodes (SCNs), a first random number of a plurality of random numbers from a random number provider; encrypting, by the first SCN, data stored at the SCN using the first random number to generate a first encrypted data; transmitting, by the first SCN, the first encrypted data to a second SCN of the plurality of SCNs; receiving, by the first SCN and from the second SCN, a second encrypted data that was encrypted using a second random number of the plurality of random numbers from the random number provider; iteratively updating, by the first SCN, a secure logistic regression model (SLRM) by using the first encrypted data and the second encrypted data to generate an interim computation result that is divided into a plurality of shares that are transmitted to the plurality of SCNs to be used as subsequent inputs for the SLRM to determine a column vector of a prediction error as a difference between a sigmoid fitting function applied to a respective share and a label of a sample of a mini batch of a Stochastic Gradient Descent method, each of the plurality of shares hiding original data such that the original data cannot be recovered by using a single share of the plurality of shares; and after iteratively updating the SLRM, outputting a result of the SLRM, wherein the result is configured to enable a service to be performed by each SCN of the plurality of SCNs.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein each random number is at least one of a number, a vector, or a matrix.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein at least one of the random numbers is generated by a third-party agent.
18. The computer-implemented system of claim 15, wherein iteratively updating the SLRM is based on a Secret Sharing (SS) scheme.
</claims>
</document>
