<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/50,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICKOVER CLIFFORD A.
CHEFALAS THOMAS E.
KARVE ALEXEI
ASTHANA, NEERAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66816587
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Orchestration engine blueprint aspects for hybrid cloud composition
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques that facilitate orchestration engine blueprint aspects for hybrid cloud composition are provided. In one example, a system includes a learning component and a hybrid cloud composition component. The learning component learns one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with information for one or more computing resources of a cloud-based computing platform based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform. The hybrid cloud composition component generates a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects. The hybrid cloud composition component also modifies a blueprint associated with the cloud-based computing platform based on the set of resource definitions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a learning component that: learns one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with information for one or more computing resources of a cloud-based computing platform based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform; and alters a first resource within a blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on an estimated risk level associated with the first resource, and wherein the estimated risk level is a multidimensional vector; and a hybrid cloud composition component that generates a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects, and modifies the blueprint associated with the cloud-based computing platform based on the set of resource definitions, wherein the blueprint is a machine-readable representation and a human-readable representation of one or more computing resources associated with the cloud-based computing platform, wherein the machine-readable representation and the human-readable representation are associated with a data serialization language.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a blueprint component that extracts the one or more blueprint-level aspects from the blueprint, wherein the blueprint is indicative of a machine-readable representation of the one or more computing resources, and wherein the learning component further alters the first resource within the blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on an estimated benefit of using the second resource.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a computing resource component that modifies a previous version of the one or more computing resources to generate the one or more computing resources for the cloud-based computing platform.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computing resource component generates the one or more computing resources for a hybrid cloud-based computing platform, a public cloud-based computing platform, or a private cloud-based computing platform.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer executable components further comprise: a blueprint component that determines the one or more blueprint-level aspects for a resource definition portion within the blueprint.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the blueprint component determines encoded data within the one or more blueprint-level aspects from a group consisting of service level agreement data, software data, deployment environment data, cost data, security data, response time data, dependency data, deadline data, description data, benchmark data, and maintainer data.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the hybrid cloud composition component modifies a resource definition portion within the blueprint based on the set of resource definitions.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein the blueprint component determines the one or more blueprint-level aspects based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform or another cloud-based computing platform, wherein the historical data comprises previously determined information for computing resources associated with the cloud-based computing platform.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the learning component determines the one or more blueprint-level aspects based on previously determined performance data associated with the cloud-based computing platform or another cloud-based computing platform.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein hybrid cloud composition component dynamically populates the set of resource definitions with resource data based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the hybrid cloud composition component inserts data associated with the set of resource definitions into the blueprint.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the hybrid cloud composition component determines the set of resource definitions to facilitate improved performance for the cloud-based computing platform.
13. A computer-implemented method, comprising: learning, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with information for one or more computing resources of a cloud-based computing platform based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform; altering, by the system, a first resource within a blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on an estimated risk level associated with the first resource, and wherein the estimated risk level is a scalar value; and generating, by the system, a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects, wherein the set of resource definitions comprises definitions to facilitate auto-scaling associated with the cloud-based computing platform, wherein the auto-scaling comprises schedule-based scaling associated with an expected increase in data traffic associated with the cloud-based computing platform; and modifying, by the system, a blueprint associated with the cloud-based computing platform based on the set of resource definitions, wherein the modifying comprises inserting the set of resource definitions into the blueprint to generate the modified blueprint that includes the set of resource definitions and the blueprint-level aspects.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the learning comprises learning the one or more blueprint-level aspects based on performance data associated with the cloud-based computing platform.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the modifying comprises modifying a resource definition portion within the blueprint based on the set of resource definitions, and wherein the set of resource definitions comprises one or more definitions for hardware associated with the cloud-based computing platform and one or more definitions for software associated with the cloud-based computing platform.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising: monitoring, by the system, the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects to learn one or more features associated with the cloud-based computing platform.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the modifying results in improving performance of the cloud-based computing platform based on deleting one or more portions of resource properties within the modified blueprint based on information included in the set of resource definitions.
18. A computer program product facilitating an orchestration engine process, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: learn, by the processor, one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with a blueprint for one or more computing resources of a cloud-based computing platform based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform, wherein at least one of the one or more blueprint-level aspects comprises a notification aspect that: tracks alarm configurations associated with the cloud-based computing platform; and sets one or more alarms for metric data associated with the cloud-based computing platform; alter, by the processor, a first resource within a blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on an estimated risk level associated with the first resource, and wherein the estimated risk level is a scalar value; and determine, by the processor, a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects; and generate, by the processor, a modified blueprint for the cloud-based computing based on the set of resource definitions.
19. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: modify, by the processor, one or more portions of the blueprint based on the set of resource definitions.
20. The computer program product of claim 18, wherein the program instructions are further executable by the processor to cause the processor to: modify, by the processor, a resource definition portion within the blueprint based on the set of resource definitions.
21. A system, comprising: a memory that stores computer executable components; a processor that executes computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a computing resource component that modifies one or more first computing resources for a cloud-based computing platform to generate one or more second computing resources for the cloud-based computing platform; a learning component that: learns one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with information for the one or more computing resources based on historical data associated with the cloud-based computing platform, wherein at least of the one or more blueprint-level aspects comprise a notification aspect that: accesses one or more statistics associated with the cloud-based computing platform; and facilitates an automated action based on a state of the cloud-based computing program; alters a first resource within a blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on a predicted value associated with the second resource; and a hybrid cloud composition component that generates a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects, and modifies a blueprint associated with the cloud-based computing platform based on the set of resource definitions.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the computing resource component generates the one or more second computing resources for a hybrid cloud-based computing platform, a public cloud-based computing platform, or a private cloud-based computing platform.
23. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating, by a system operatively coupled to a processor, one or more computing resources for a cloud-based computing platform by modifying a previous version of the one or more computing resources; learning, by the system, one or more blueprint-level aspects associated with information for the one or more computing resources based on historical data associated with a second cloud-based computing platform that is different from the cloud-based computing platform; alter, by the system, a first resource within a blueprint to a second resource within the blueprint based on a predicted value associated with the second resource and the historical data; and generating, by the system, a set of resource definitions for the cloud-based computing platform based on the one or more blueprint-level aspects; and modifying, by the system, a blueprint associated with the cloud-based computing platform based on the set of resource definitions.
24. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the modifying the blueprint comprises modifying a resource definition portion within the blueprint based on the set of resource definitions, and the set of resource definitions comprises a number of processors and/or a type of processor for the cloud-based computing platform.
25. The computer-implemented method of claim 23, wherein the modifying the blueprint comprises inserting data associated with the set of resource definitions into the blueprint, wherein one or more portions of resources properties within a modified blueprint are autocompleted based on information included in the set of resource definitions.
</claims>
</document>
