<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/08,H04W24/10,H04W40/20,H04W56/00,H04W76/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
AKOUM, SALAM
WANG, XIAOYI
NOVLAN, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69946398
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
On-demand backhaul link management measurements for integrated access backhaul for 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
The same or similar physical signals can be used for both user equipment (UE) and an integrate access backhaul (IAB) node. Different configurations of the resources and/or transmission periods of the signals can be used for initial access for access UEs and IAB nodes. In addition, to support topology formation, mobility/multi-connectivity procedures, and backhaul link management, periodic measurements and reports can be configured by a parent IAB node to a child IAB node UE function. This can comprise radio resource management (RRM), radio link monitoring (RLM), and beam management (L1-BM) measurements and reports.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: connecting, by first network equipment comprising a processor, a mobile equipment function of the first network equipment to second network equipment; in response to the connecting, receiving, by the first network equipment for the mobile equipment function, synchronization signal block data representative of a synchronization signal block measurement associated with a synchronization signal block; based on the synchronization signal block data, configuring, by the first network equipment, channel state data to be transmitted on a first beamwidth that is narrower than a second beamwidth associated with the synchronization signal block, resulting in configured channel state data; in response to a reference signal received power being determined to have satisfied a threshold, generating, by the first network equipment, measurement data representative of a radio resource management metric associated with the first network equipment; based on the configured channel state data, performing, by the first network equipment, a radio resource measurement, wherein the radio resource measurement comprises a beam management measurement associated with the second network equipment; and based on the beam management measurement and in accordance with the second network equipment, selecting, by the first network equipment, a transmission beam to be used by the first network equipment.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the connecting, receiving, by the first network equipment, for the mobile equipment function, timing configuration data representative of a timing configuration to be utilized by the mobile equipment function.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the timing configuration data comprises time data representative of a transmission time associated with the synchronization signal block.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the synchronization signal block data comprises route management data representative of a network route to be managed.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the transmission beam is based on a hop order associated with the second network equipment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the transmission beam is based on a topology management function associated with the second network equipment.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the first network equipment, synchronization signal block measurement and timing configuration data representative of a time associated with a synchronization signal block transmission to be utilized by the second network equipment.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: connecting a mobile equipment function, of first network equipment, to second network equipment; in response to a reference signal received power being determined to have satisfied a function with respect to a threshold, transmitting, to the second network equipment, measurement data representative of a radio resource management metric associated with the first network equipment; in response to the connecting, receiving, for the mobile equipment function, synchronization signal block data representative of a synchronization signal block measurement associated with a synchronization signal block; in response to the receiving, configuring channel state data to be transmitted on a first beamwidth that is narrower than a second beamwidth associated with the synchronization signal block data, resulting in configured channel state data; based on the configured channel state data, performing a radio resource measurement, wherein the radio resource measurement comprises a beam management measurement; and based on the beam management measurement, selecting a transmission beam to be used by the first network equipment.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a hop order associated with the second network equipment, generating a muting pattern to mute a transmission of the synchronization signal block.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a periodicity of the muting pattern, utilizing the muting pattern to mute a transmission of the synchronization signal block associated with the second network equipment.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: configuring the muting pattern in accordance with a physical cell identification associated with the first network equipment.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: configuring the muting pattern in accordance with a hop order identification associated with the second network equipment.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the synchronization signal block data comprises route management data representative of a network route to be managed.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: configuring channel state reference signal data in accordance with the second network equipment to be dedicated to the second network equipment.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: facilitating connecting a mobile device function, of first network equipment, to second network equipment; in response to a current reference signal received power being determined to be less than a previous reference signal received power, facilitating transmitting, by the first network equipment to the second network equipment, measurement data representative of a radio resource management metric associated with the first network equipment; in response to the facilitating the connecting, facilitating receiving, for the mobile device function, synchronization signal block data representative of a synchronization signal block measurement; based on the synchronization signal block data, configuring channel state data to be transmitted on a first beamwidth that is narrower than a second beamwidth associated with the synchronization signal block data, resulting in configured channel state data; based on the configured channel state data, facilitating performing a radio resource measurement, wherein the radio resource measurement comprises a beam management measurement; and based on the beam management measurement, facilitating selecting a transmission beam to be used by the first network equipment.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to the facilitating of the receiving of the synchronization signal block data, configuring the channel state data to be associated with the synchronization signal block.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the channel state data is configured in accordance with the second network equipment.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: based on a link quality metric, generating, by the mobile device function, of the first network equipment, a request for aperiodic radio link management to indicate a timing configuration.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to receiving a first request from a donor unit of the first network equipment to support a transmission state, generating, by the mobile device function, of the first network equipment, a request for aperiodic radio link management to indicate a timing configuration.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the facilitating of the selecting of the transmission beam is based on a route order associated with the second network equipment.
</claims>
</document>
