<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/635,G06F16/683,G06F17/27,G06F40/30,G10L15/08,G10L15/18,G10L15/20,G10L17/00,G10L17/06,G10L25/51,G10L25/93
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRASADAKIS, GEORGIOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67843414
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device and method for voice-driven ideation session management
</title>

<abstract>
An idea recognition tool utilizes natural language processing techniques to capture, understand, and identify ideas that are mentioned by speakers during a conversation involving multiple speakers, and tag ideas attributed to their speaker accordingly. The idea recognition tool also autonomously triggers search operations to obtain supplemental information for enriching the underlying identified ideas. The identified ideas and supplemental information are grouped, classified, and formatted into a dedicated format for further analysis, as well as considered for implementing relevant actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising: microphone circuitry configured to capture a voice discussion of a new innovation including session ideas and to generate a digital audio file; and identification circuitry configured to: identify the session ideas by using natural language processing to: parse a sentence included in the digital audio file into a phrase structure; tag keyword topics included in the phrase structure; determine a sentiment of the phrase structure; summarize the phrase structure; identify the session ideas from the summarized phrase structure; and select a dictionary related to the identified session ideas for further natural language processing of the digital audio file; identify multiple parts of the digital audio file, each part of the digital audio file relating to a step of the innovation; flag each part of the digital audio file as relating to a step of the innovation; arrange the order of the flagged parts of the digital audio file to correspond to the sequential order of the steps of the innovation; identify the semantic content of each part of the digital audio file; and store the identified semantic content in an innovation storage platform.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the voice discussion comprises voice signals from a plurality of users.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the identification circuitry is configured to determine, from the digital audio file, one of a title of the innovation, a summary of the innovation, a description of the innovation, or a combination thereof.
4. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising conversation identification circuitry configured to identify one or more parts of the digital audio file, each part of the digital audio file relating to a separate conversation between a different combination of speakers.
5. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising a network interface configured to communicate with a user database; and wherein the identification circuitry is further configured to: determine a participant voice corresponding to a speaker from the digital audio file; compare the participant voice with user profiles included in the user database; select, from the user profiles, a selected user profile that corresponds to a user and includes a voice profile matching the participant voice; identify the session ideas attributed to the participant voice; and tag the session ideas to the speaker.
6. The computing device of claim 5, further comprising session file generation circuitry configured to: generate a session file to include the session ideas tagged to the speaker; obtain, from an external source, supporting information to the session ideas; include, as metadata to the session file, both the session ideas and the supporting information; upload the session file to a server portal; receive, from the server portal, a session summary report; and present the session summary report.
7. The computing device of claim 6, wherein the session file generation obtains the supporting information by being configured to: search the external source for the supporting information while the microphone circuitry records the digital audio file.
8. The computing device of claim 6, wherein the session file generation circuitry is further configured to generate an invention disclosure form by selecting steps of the innovation, identified ideas, participants, and supporting information, and filling the information in the invention disclosure form.
9. The computing device of claim 5, wherein the identification circuity is further configured to use natural language processing to determine a speaking pattern of the participant voice and compare the speaking pattern to a stored speaking pattern in the participant's voice profile.
10. A computer implemented method for idea session recording, the method comprising: capturing on microphone circuitry a voice discussion of a new innovation and session ideas; generating a digital audio file of the voice discussion; identifying with identification circuitry the session ideas by using natural language processing to: parse a sentence included in the digital audio file into a phrase structure; tag keyword topics included in the phrase structure; determine a sentiment of the phrase structure; summarize the phrase structure; identify the session ideas from the summarized phrase structure; and select a dictionary related to the identified session ideas for further natural language processing of the digital audio file; identifying with the identification circuitry multiple parts of the digital audio file, each part of the digital audio file relating to a step of the innovation; flagging each part of the digital audio file as relating to a step of the innovation; arranging the order of the flagged parts of the digital audio file to correspond to the sequential order of the steps of the innovation; identifying the semantic content of each part of the digital audio file; and storing the identified semantic content in an innovation storage platform.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 10, wherein the voice discussion comprises voice signals from a plurality of users.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 10, further comprising determining, from the digital audio file, one of a title of the innovation, a summary of the innovation, a description of the innovation, or a combination thereof.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 10, further comprising identifying with conversation identification circuitry parts of the digital audio file, each part of the digital audio file relating to a separate conversation between a different combination of speakers.
14. The computer implemented of claim 10, further comprising: determining a participant voice corresponding to a speaker from the digital audio file; comparing the participant voice with user profiles included in the user database; selecting from the user profiles a selected user profile that corresponds to a user and includes a voice profile matching the participant voice; identifying the session ideas attributed to the participant voice; and tagging the session ideas to the speaker.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: generating with session file generation circuitry a session file to include the session ideas tagged to the speaker; obtaining, from an external source, supporting information to the session ideas; including, as metadata to the session file, both the session ideas and the supporting information; uploading the session file to a server portal; receiving, from the server portal, a session summary report; and presenting the session summary report.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 15, wherein obtaining the supporting information comprises searching the external source for the supporting information while the microphone circuitry records and generates the digital audio file.
</claims>
</document>
