<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WIJAYA, CHANDRA SUWANDI
VONIKAKIS, VASILEIOS
BECK, ARIEL
KEK, KHAI JUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68532604
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a computer-implemented method for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals. The method includes: identifying the group of individuals amongst a plurality of individuals in an area being monitored by one or more sensors; determining, for each individual in the group of individuals, one or more individual-based features associated with the individual based on sensing data obtained from the one or more sensors; determining a group characteristic information associated with the group of individuals based on the one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group; and generating the output based on the group characteristic information determined for the group of individuals. There is also provide a corresponding system for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals, the method comprising: identifying the group of individuals amongst a plurality of individuals in an area being monitored by one or more sensors using a schematic model, wherein the schematic model is composed of at least one of a skeleton model and a face model which determines a separation, and an orientation of each individual of said plurality of individuals and whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group of individuals based on the separation determined with respect to the adjacent pair of individuals and the orientation determined with respect to each individual of the adjacent pair of individuals, wherein said separation is determined based on one or more predetermined first portions of the respective skeleton model or the face model and said orientation is determined based on a direction vector generated based on one or more predetermined second portions of the respective skeleton model or the face model; determining a group characteristic information associated with the group of individuals based on one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group; and generating the output based on the group characteristic information determined for the group of individuals.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising determining one or more group-based features associated with the group of individuals based on the one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group, wherein the group characteristic information is determined based on the one or more group-based features determined for the group of individuals.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein said determining whether to assign the adjacent pair of individuals comprises determining to assign the adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group on individuals if the separation between the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfies a predetermined separation condition and the orientations of the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfy a predetermined orientation condition.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the group characteristic information is a group relationship information indicating a relationship amongst the individuals in the group.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the output is selected from the group consisting of a targeted advertisement content, a targeted security alert, an environment setting, and a signal comprising the group characteristic information.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors are selected from the group consisting of a motion sensing device, a range sensing device, an image capturing device, and an audio capturing device.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the one or more individual-based features determined are selected from the group consisting of a facial feature, a body feature, aspatial feature, and a speech feature.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein said determining one or more individual-based features comprises determining each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature for each individual in the group of individuals, and said determining a group characteristic information comprises determining the group characteristic information based on each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature associated with each individual in the group of individuals.
9. A computer-implemented method for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals, the method comprising: identifying the group of individuals amongst a plurality of individuals in an area being monitored by one or more sensors using a schematic model, wherein the schematic model is composed of at least one of a skeleton model and a face model which determines a separation, and an orientation of each individual of said plurality of individuals, and whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group of individuals based on the separation determined with respect to the adjacent pair of individuals and the orientation determined with respect to each individual of the adjacent pair of individuals, wherein said determining whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals comprises determining to assign the adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group on individuals, if the separation between the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfies a predetermined separation condition and the orientations of the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfy a predetermined orientation condition, wherein the predetermined separation condition is that the separation determined is less than a predetermined separation, and the predetermined orientation condition is that the orientations determined are toward each other; determining a group characteristic information associated with the group of individuals based on one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group; and generating the output based on the group characteristic information determined for the group of individuals.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the group characteristic information is a group relationship information indicating a relationship amongst the individuals in the group.
11. The method according to claim 9, wherein the output is selected from the group consisting of a targeted advertisement content, a targeted security alert, an environment setting, and a signal comprising the group characteristic information.
12. The method according to claim 9, wherein the one or more sensors are selected from the group consisting of a motion sensing device, a range sensing device, an image capturing device, and an audio capturing device.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the one or more individual-based features determined are selected from the group consisting of a facial feature, a body feature, aspatial feature, and a speech feature.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein said determining one or more individual-based features comprises determining each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature for each individual in the group of individuals, and said determining a group characteristic information comprises determining the group characteristic information based on each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature associated with each individual in the group of individuals.
15. A system for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals, the system comprising: a memory; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the memory and configured to: identify the group of individuals amongst a plurality of individuals in an area being monitored by one or more sensors using a schematic model wherein the schematic model is composed of at least one of a skeleton model and a face model which determines a separation, an orientation of each individual of said plurality of individuals and whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group of individuals based on the separation determined with respect to the adjacent pair of individuals and the orientation determined with respect to each individual of the adjacent pair of individuals, wherein said separation is determined based on one or more predetermined first portions of the respective skeleton model or the face model and said orientation is determined based on a direction vector generated based on one or more predetermined second portions of the respective skeleton model or the face model; determine a group characteristic information associated with the group of individuals based on one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group; and generate the output based on the group characteristic information determined for the group of individuals.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine one or more group-based features associated with the group of individuals based on the one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group, wherein the group characteristic information is determined based on the one or more group-based features determined for the group of individuals.
17. The system according to claim 15, wherein the output is selected from the group consisting of a targeted advertisement content, a targeted security alert, an environment setting, and a signal comprising the group characteristic information.
18. The system according to claim 15, further comprising the one or more sensors, wherein the one or more sensors are selected from the group consisting of a motion sensing device, a range sensing device, an image capturing device, and an audio capturing device.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein the one or more individual-based features determined are selected from the group consisting of a facial feature, a body feature, a spatial feature, and a speech feature.
20. The system according to claim 19, wherein said determine one or more individual-based features comprises determining each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature for each individual in the group of individuals, and said determine a group characteristic information comprises determining the group characteristic information based on each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature associated with each individual in the group of individuals.
21. A system for generating an output with respect to a group of individuals, the system comprising: a memory; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the memory and configured to: identify the group of individuals amongst a plurality of individuals in an area being monitored by one or more sensors using a schematic model; wherein the schematic model is composed of at least one of a skeleton model and a face model which determines a separation, an orientation of each individual of said plurality of individuals and whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group of individuals based on the separation determined with respect to the adjacent pair of individuals and the orientation determined with respect to each individual of the adjacent pair of individuals; wherein said determining whether to assign an adjacent pair of individuals comprises determining to assign the adjacent pair of individuals as belonging to the group on individuals if the separation between the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfies a predetermined separation condition and the orientations of the adjacent pair of individuals determined satisfy a predetermined orientation condition; wherein the predetermined separation condition is that the separation determined is less than a predetermined separation and the predetermined orientation condition is that the orientations determined are toward each other; determine a group characteristic information associated with the group of individuals based on one or more individual-based features determined for each individual in the group; and generate the output based on the group characteristic information determined for the group of individuals.
22. The method according to claim 21, wherein the group characteristic information is a group relationship information indicating a relationship amongst the individuals in the group.
23. The method according to claim 21, wherein the output is selected from the group consisting of a targeted advertisement content, a targeted security alert, an environment setting, and a signal comprising the group characteristic information.
24. The method according to claim 21, wherein the one or more sensors are selected from the group consisting of a motion sensing device, a range sensing device, an image capturing device, and an audio capturing device.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the one or more individual-based features determined are selected from the group consisting of a facial feature, a body feature, aspatial feature, and a speech feature.
26. The method according to claim 25, wherein said determining one or more individual-based features comprises determining each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature for each individual in the group of individuals, and said determining a group characteristic information comprises determining the group characteristic information based on each of the facial feature, the body feature, the spatial feature, and the speech feature associated with each individual in the group of individuals.
</claims>
</document>
