<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LOGMEIN
GETGO
</assignee>

<inventors>
THAPLIYAL, ASHISH, V.
AVRIONOV, NIKOLAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62712066
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-time communications system with intelligent presence indication
</title>

<abstract>
In a distributed computing system, clients of a communications application are deployed on user devices. The clients on target user devices collect and report context information for a target user such as location and application-in-use. Reported context information is associated with response time information describing time to respond to initiation of communications in respective contexts, and a predictive model is maintained and used to obtain an estimate for a response time of the target user to respond to a new initiation of communications in a current context. A presence indicator on an initiator user device provides a presence indicator for the target user, and is generated and updated by obtaining current context of the target user and applying it to the predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the target user, and setting a value of the presence indicator according to the estimate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operating a distributed computing system to provide presence information about a target user to an initiator user, comprising: deploying respective clients of a communications application on devices of the target user and a device of the initiator user; by the clients on the devices of the target user over a predetermined minimum operating period before a new initiation of communications by the initiator user, regularly collecting and reporting context information for the target user, the context information describing at least location and application-in-use of the target user; by a computing device of the system, associating the reported context information with corresponding response time information describing elapsed time between initiations of communications with the target user and corresponding responses by the target user in respective contexts, and maintaining a predictive model using the reported context information and associated response time information, the predictive model taking as input a description of a context of the target user and returning a corresponding estimate for a response time of the target user to respond to the new initiation of communications; and operating a user interface of the client on the device of the initiator user to provide a presence indicator for the target user to the initiator user, the presence indicator being generated and updated by (1) obtaining current context of the target user, (2) applying the current context to the predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the target user, and (3) setting a value of the presence indicator according to the estimate of the current response time.
2. The method of claim 1 utilizing a peer-to-peer organization of the distributed computing system, wherein the computing device is the device of the initiator user and receives the context information reported for the target user.
3. The method of claim 1 utilizing a client-server organization of the distributed computing system, wherein the computing device is a server that (i) receives the context information reported for the target user, and (ii) provides the estimate of the current response time of the target user to the device of the initiator user for displaying as part of the user interface.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the clients on the devices of the target user use a push technique to report the context information to the server unsolicited.
5. The method of claim 3 employing an extensible messaging and presence protocol for providing additional presence information to the device of the initiator user beyond the estimate of response time for the presence indicator.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the server further includes an interface to a calendar system for the target user and a merging function, and is operative to merge calendar scheduling information from the calendar system with the context information for the target user both for maintaining the predictive model and for applying the current context to the predictive model to generate the estimate of the current response time of the target user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: maintaining the predictive model includes generating a data series {D} where each item Di includes a respective timestamp_i, delta_i, and context_i, the context_i including the context information, the delta_i being an associated actual response time, and the timestamp_i being an associated time-of-day; and applying the current context to the predictive model includes (i) querying the data series {D} to find events D_i that satisfy constraints of time_of_day=within a predetermined time window of the current time, and device_type=current_device_type used by the target user, (ii) forming a result dataset {D′} including a predetermined minimum number of most recently obtained data items, and (iii) calculating an estimated response time range as a statistical range about a statistical median of the response times of the dataset {D′}.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein, if {D′} initially has less than the predetermined minimum number of most recently obtained data items, one or both of the constraints are relaxed until the result dataset {D′} includes the predetermined minimum number of data items.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the presence indicator includes a colorable or shadeable graphical element, and wherein the value of the presence indicator is a color or shade in a range of colors or shades representing a predetermined range of response times.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the context information further includes a speed of the target user, the speed being non-zero when the target user is moving.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the predictive model includes an identification of periodic patterns in the context information.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the devices of the target user include a stationary device and a mobile device, and wherein the context information for each device of the target user includes a respective device type.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the presence indicator of the user interface is updated in response to action by the initiator user that precedes initiation of communication.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the action includes selecting or highlighting an identifier of the target user in the user interface.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the predictive model is specific to the initiator user and reflects past response times of the target user specifically to the initiator user as distinct from response times to other users.
16. A client computerized device for use in a distributed computing system, the client computerized device including one or more processors, memory, and I/O interface circuitry coupled together by one or more data buses, the memory storing computer program instructions executed by the client computerized device to form a set of functional components including a user interface for displaying information to a local user, a remote device interface for exchanging data with other computerized devices of the distributed computing system, and a collection/reporting component, wherein: the collection/reporting component regularly collects and reports context information for the local user over a predetermined minimum operating period before a new initiation of communications by the initiator user, the context information describing at least location and application-in-use of the local user, the context information being reported to a computing device of the distributed communications system where the reported context information is associated with corresponding response time information describing elapsed time between initiations of communications with the local user and corresponding responses by the local user in respective contexts, the computing device maintaining a first predictive model using the reported context information and associated response time information, the first predictive model taking as input a description of a context of the local user and returning a corresponding estimate for a response time of the local user to respond to the new initiation of communications by a remote user; and operating the user interface to provide a presence indicator to the local user as a local initiator user, the presence indicator providing presence information for the remote user as a remote target user with whom the local initiator user initiates communications, the presence indicator being generated and updated by (1) obtaining current context of the remote target user and applying the current context to a second predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the remote target user, and (2) setting a value of the presence indicator according to the estimate of the current response time of the remote target user.
17. The client computerized device of claim 16, wherein the distributed computing system utilizes a peer-to-peer organization in which (1) the computing device is a remote client device of the remote user, and (2) the client computing device includes a PI subsystem that maintains the second predictive model and uses the second predictive model to set the value of the presence indicator.
18. The client computerized device of claim 16, wherein the distributed computing system utilizes a client-server organization in which the computing device is a server that includes a PI subsystem that (1) maintains both the first predictive model and the second predictive model, (2) uses the second predictive model to obtain the estimate of the current response time of the remote user and provide the estimate to the user interface of the client computerized device for setting the value of the presence indicator, and (3) uses the first predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the local user and provides the estimate to a remote client computerized device of the remote user for setting a value of a presence indicator for the local user as a target user.
19. A server computerized device for use in a distributed computing system, the server computerized device including one or more processors, memory, and I/O interface circuitry coupled together by one or more data buses, the memory storing computer program instructions executed by the server computerized device to form a set of functional components including a client device interface for exchanging data with client computerized devices of the distributed computing system, the client computerized devices executing respective user interfaces including respective presence indicators for other users as target users, the functional components further including a PI subsystem for providing presence information about target users to initiator users of the distributed computing system, wherein: the PI subsystem (1) regularly collects respective context information for the first and second users, the context information describing at least location and application-in-use, and maintains a first predictive model and a second predictive model for respective first and second users as target users, each predictive model using the respective collected context information and associated response time information, (2) before a new initiation of communications by the second user to the first user, uses the first predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the first user and provides the estimate to a second client computerized device of the second user for setting a value of a first presence indicator for the first user as a target user, and (3) before a new initiation of communications by the first user to the second user, uses the second predictive model to obtain an estimate of a current response time of the second user and provides the estimate to a first client computerized device of the first user for setting a value of a second presence indicator for the second user as a target user.
20. The server computerized device of claim 19, wherein the functional components further include an interface to a calendar system for the users and a merging function, and is operative to merge calendar scheduling information from the calendar system with context information for the users as target users both for maintaining the predictive models and for applying current context to the predictive models to generate the estimates of the current response time of the respective users.
</claims>
</document>
