<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COGNOSANTE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DISCENZA, LEONARD M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68693360
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Protecting the integrity and privacy of data shared over a remote connection from risks in the remote environment
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer readable medium, and computer wherein a system provides an agent device a remote connection to a server resource, obtains remote environment data from the agent device and obtains communication data exchanged between the agent device and a client device. With that data, the system provides a multidimensional monitoring unit associated with the agent device, and the monitoring unit provides access to the remote environment data from the agent device and the communication data exchanged between the agent device and the client device. The system further detects changes in the remote environment data and communication data associated with the remote agent, and issues alarms in response to detecting changes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: providing, to a first agent device, remote access to a server resource; obtaining remote environment data from the first agent device and communication data exchanged between the first agent device and a first client device; providing a multidimensional monitoring unit associated with the first agent device, wherein the multidimensional monitoring unit provides access to the remote environment data from the first agent device and the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device and a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; in response to detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device or a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device, issuing an alarm; and wherein the remote agent device comprises a desktop and further comprising replicating the desktop upon detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the remote environment data from the first agent device comprises data from two or more of an agent camera, agent microphone, or agent peripheral interface controller.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device comprises agent communication data and client communication data.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first agent device comprises the agent microphone and detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device comprises detecting a change in audio captured by the agent microphone.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device comprises detecting a change in an image captured by the agent camera.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein detecting the change in the image captured by the agent camera comprises: comparing a first image captured by the agent camera and a second image captured by the agent camera; determining a change value between the first image and the second image; and determining whether the change value exceeds a threshold change value.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein detecting a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device comprises performing sentiment analysis on the agent communication data and the client communication data.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to issuing the alarm, storing the remote environment data from the first agent device and the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; and responding to the alarm according to a received instruction.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the received instruction comprises at least one of: establishing a connection with the first client device; disabling the first agent device; identifying the change in the remote environment data from the first agent device or the change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device as an acceptable change; and dismissing the alarm.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to issuing the alarm, identifying potentially misappropriated data, wherein identifying potentially misappropriated data comprises identifying data accessed by the agent device via the remote access as potentially misappropriated data.
11. A method, comprising: providing, to a first agent device, remote access to a server resource; obtaining remote environment data from the first agent device and communication data exchanged between the first agent device and a first client device; providing a multidimensional monitoring unit associated with the first agent device, wherein the multidimensional monitoring unit provides access to the remote environment data from the first agent device and the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device and a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; in response to detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device and a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device, issuing an alarm; and providing a second agent device remote access to the server resource; obtaining remote environment data from the second agent device and communication data exchanged between the second agent device and a second client device; providing a multidimensional monitoring unit associated with the second agent device, wherein the monitoring window provides access to the remote environment data from the second agent device and the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device; detecting a change in the remote environment data from the second agent device and a change in the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device; and in response to detecting a change in the remote environment data from the second agent device or a change in the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device, issuing an alarm.
12. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing instructions that are executable to cause a system to perform operations comprising: providing a first agent device remote access to a server resource; obtaining remote environment data from the first agent device; obtaining communication data exchanged between the first agent device and a first client device; creating a first multidimensional monitoring object associated with the first agent device comprising the remote environment data from the first agent device and the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; detecting a change to the first multidimensional monitoring object, wherein the change to the first multidimensional monitoring object comprises a change to the remote environment data from the first agent device or a change to the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device; in response to detecting the change to the first multidimensional monitoring object, issuing an alarm; providing a second agent device remote access to the server resource; obtaining remote environment data from the second agent device; obtaining data exchanged between the second agent device and a second client device; creating a second multidimensional monitoring object associated with the second agent device comprising the remote environment data from the second agent device and the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device; detecting a change to the second multidimensional monitoring object, wherein the change to the second multidimensional monitoring object comprises a change to the remote environment data from the second agent device or a change to the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device; and in response to detecting the change to the second multidimensional monitoring object, issuing an alarm.
13. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the remote environment data obtained from the first agent device and the second agent device comprises a multidimensional stream of remote environment data including data associated with two or more of an agent camera, agent microphone, and agent peripheral interface controller.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device and the communication data exchanged between the second agent device and the second client device comprise respective multidimensional streams of agent communication data and client communication data.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, further comprising displaying the first multidimensional monitoring object associated with the first agent device and the second multidimensional monitoring object associated with the second agent device in a monitoring environment.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the monitoring environment comprises a graphical user interface providing access to the first multidimensional monitoring object associated with the first agent device and the second multidimensional monitoring object associated with the second agent device.
17. A computer comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing computer readable instructions that are executed by the processor to cause the computer to perform: establishing a connection with an agent device; obtaining remote environment data from the agent device; obtaining communication data exchanged between the agent device and a client device; creating a multidimensional monitoring object associated with the agent device comprising the remote environment data from the agent device and the communication data exchanged between the agent device and the client device; detecting a change to the multidimensional monitoring object, wherein the change to the multidimensional monitoring object comprises a change to the remote environment data from the agent device or a change to the communication data exchanged between the agent device and the client device; and in response to detecting a change to the multidimensional monitoring object, formatting the multidimensional monitoring object associated with the agent device for display in a graphical user interface.
18. The computer of claim 17, further comprising: receiving a user input comprising a selection of the multidimensional monitoring object; and in response to receiving the user input comprising the selection of the multidimensional monitoring object, presenting the remote environment data and the communication data exchanged between the agent device and the client device.
19. The computer of claim 17, further comprising hiding the multidimensional monitoring object from the graphical user interface on the supervisor device in accordance with a received instruction.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the remote agent device comprises a desktop and further comprising replicating the desktop upon detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device.
21. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting a change in the remote environment data from the first agent device comprises detecting a change in an image captured by the agent camera, and wherein detecting the change in the image captured by the agent camera comprises: comparing a first image captured by the agent camera and a second image captured by the agent camera; determining a change value between the first image and the second image; and determining whether the change value exceeds a threshold change value.
22. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting a change in the communication data exchanged between the first agent device and the first client device comprises performing sentiment analysis on the agent communication data and the client communication data.
</claims>
</document>
