<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2003-11-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MCAFEE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JORDAN CHRISTOPHER J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51493592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device, system and method for defending a computer network
</title>

<abstract>
A router includes a processor-readable medium including code representing instructions to cause a processor to perform operations. The operations include routing received information communicated from a first network to a component associated with a service within a second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by a service that exists within the second network. The operations also include routing the received information to a predetermined component, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by a service that does not exist within the second network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A router, comprising: a non-transitory, processor-readable medium including code representing instructions to cause a processor to perform operations including routing received information communicated from a first network to a component associated with a first service within a second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by the first service; and routing the received information to a predetermined component within the second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by a second service that does not exist within the second network.
2. The router of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: determining, based on information at a layer above a data link layer of the received information, if the received information is to be handled by the first service.
3. The router of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: routing the received information to another service responsive to the determination that the received information is to be handled by the second service, and responding to the first network based on information from the another service, wherein the information from the another service is the same as information from the second service.
4. The router of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: removing network traits from internet protocol (IP) datagrams during transmission of information from a component within the second network.
5. The router of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: modifying a payload of a packet to remove traits of the second network and to provide apparent traits.
6. The router of claim 1, wherein the operations further include: performing network address translation at least partially based on a determination that a packet matching content of a payload of the received information is a known good packet.
7. The router of claim 1, wherein the received information is received with a wireless connection.
8. The router of claim 1, wherein all services within the second network respond as active.
9. A non-transitory, processor-readable medium including code representing instructions to cause a processor to perform operations comprising: routing received information communicated from a first network to a component associated with a first service within a second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by the first service; and routing the received information to a predetermined component within the second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by a second service that does not exist within the second network.
10. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on information at a layer above a data link layer of the received information, if the received information is to be handled by the first service.
11. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: routing the received information to another service, responsive to the determination that the received information is to be handled by the second service; and responding to the first network based on information from the another service, wherein the information from the another service is the same as information from the second service.
12. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: removing network traits from internet protocol (IP) datagrams during transmission of information from a component within the second network.
13. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: modifying a payload of a packet to remove traits of the second network and to provide apparent traits.
14. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: performing network address translation at least partially based on a determination that packet matching content of a payload of the received information is a known good packet.
15. The non-transitory, processor-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the received information is received with a wireless connection.
16. A method, comprising: routing received information communicated from a first network to a component associated with a first service within a second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by the first service; and routing the received information to a predetermined component within the second network, responsive to a determination that the received information is to be handled by a second service that does not exist within the second network.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining, based on information at a layer above a data link layer of the received information, if the received information is to be handled by the first service.
18. The method of claim 16, further comprising: routing the received information to another service, responsive to the determination that the received information is to be handled by the second service, and responding to the first network based on information from the another service, wherein the information from the another service is the same as information from the second service.
19. The method of claim 16, further comprising: removing network traits from internet protocol (IP) datagrams during transmission of information from a component within the second network.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: performing network address translation at least partially based on a determination that a packet matching content of a payload of the received information is a known good packet.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the received information is received with a wireless connection.
</claims>
</document>
