<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/10,A61B3/103,A61B3/113,A61B3/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LANMAN, DOUGLAS ROBERT
ZANNOLI, MARINA
SULAI, YUSUFU NJONI BAMAXAM
KONRAD, ROBERT
Ratnam, Kavitha
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for reducing eye-related aberrations
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed system may include (1) a light source that generates light for an image, (2) an optical subsystem that (a) receives the generated light from the light source, and (b) generates, based on the received light, converging light defining an exit pupil that includes the image, where the exit pupil is smaller than a pupil of an eye of a viewer, and (3) a control subsystem that controls at least one of the light source or the optical subsystem to reduce aberration of the image that is caused by the eye of the viewer. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a light source that generates light for an image; an optical subsystem that: receives the generated light from the light source; and generates, based on the received light, converging light defining an exit pupil that includes the image; and a control subsystem that: comprises a memory device storing configuration data, wherein the configuration data indicates at least one of: at least one desired position of the exit pupil relative to a pupil of an eye of a viewer to reduce aberration of the image that is caused by the eye of the viewer; or at least one desired angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer to reduce the aberration; and controls at least one of the light source or the optical subsystem to reduce the aberration by altering, based on the configuration data, at least one of: a position of the exit pupil relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer; or an angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the aberration comprises at least one of: chromatic aberration; or monochromatic aberration.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the control subsystem controls the light source to alter the light generated by the light source to modify the image to reduce the aberration.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the control subsystem alters a chromatic alignment of the light generated by the light source.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the control subsystem alters a geometric alignment of the light generated by the light source.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the system further comprises an eye-tracking subsystem that generates tracking information indicating a gaze angle of the eye of the viewer; and the control subsystem controls the at least one of the position of the exit pupil or the angle of incidence of the converging light based at least in part on the tracking information.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the control subsystem controls the at least one of the position of the exit pupil or the angle of incidence of the converging light based on a history of the tracking information to anticipate the gaze angle of the eye of the viewer.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the optical subsystem directs the converging light along a configurable optical path between the optical subsystem and the pupil of the eye determined by the control subsystem.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein: the control subsystem determines: a direction in which the converging light is to be directed; and an apparent location from which the converging light is to be directed; and the configurable optical path is based at least in part on the direction and the apparent location.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein: the at least one desired position of the exit pupil relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer is applicable to a plurality of viewers; or the at least one desired angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer is applicable to the plurality of viewers.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein: the at least one desired position comprises a desired position for each of a plurality of aberration types; the at least one desired angle of incidence comprises a desired angle of incidence for each of the plurality of aberration types; and the control subsystem generates at least one of a single desired position or a single desired angle of incidence based on a combination of at least one of: the desired position for each of the plurality of aberration types; or the desired angle of incidence for each of the plurality of aberration types.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein: the combination comprises a linear combination of a plurality of basis functions; and each of the plurality of basis functions corresponds to one of the plurality of aberration types.
13. A method comprising: generating, by a light source, light for an image; receiving, by an optical subsystem, the generated light from the light source; generating, by the optical subsystem based on the received light, converging light defining an exit pupil that includes the image; storing, in a memory device, configuration data that indicates at least one of: at least one desired position of the exit pupil relative to a pupil of an eye of a viewer to reduce aberration of the image that is caused by the eye of the viewer; or at least one desired angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer to reduce the aberration; and controlling, by a control subsystem, at least one of the light source or the optical subsystem to reduce the aberration by altering, based on the configuration data, at least one of: a position of the exit pupil relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer; or an angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein controlling the light source comprises: altering the light generated by the light source to modify the image to reduce the aberration.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein, to reduce the aberration, the control subsystem alters at least one of: a chromatic alignment of the light generated by the light source; or a geometric alignment of the light generated by the light source.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein: the method further comprises generating, using an eye-tracking subsystem, tracking information indicating a gaze angle of the eye of the viewer; and controlling, by the control subsystem, the at least one of the position of the exit pupil or the angle of incidence of the converging light is further based on the tracking information.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein: controlling, by the control subsystem, the at least one of the position of the exit pupil or the angle of incidence of the converging light is further based on a history of the tracking information to anticipate the gaze angle of the eye of the viewer.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising: computer-readable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a display device, cause the display device to: generate, by a light source of the display device, light for an image; receive, by an optical subsystem of the display device, the generated light from the light source; generate, by the optical subsystem based on the received light, converging light defining an exit pupil that includes the image; store, in a memory device of the display device, configuration data that indicates at least one of: at least one desired position of the exit pupil relative to a pupil of an eye of a viewer to reduce aberration of the image that is caused by the eye of the viewer; or at least one desired angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer to reduce the aberration; and control at least one of the light source or the optical subsystem to reduce the aberration by altering, based on the configuration data, at least one of: a position of the exit pupil relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer; or an angle of incidence of the converging light relative to the pupil of the eye of the viewer.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the display device to alter at least one of a chromatic alignment or a geometric alignment of the light generated by the light source to reduce the aberration.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the display device to: generate, using an eye-tracking subsystem, tracking information indicating a gaze angle of the eye of the viewer; and alter the at least one of the position of the exit pupil or the angle of incidence of the converging light further based on the tracking information.
</claims>
</document>
