<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T15/04,G06T15/50,G06T15/60,G06T19/00,G06T5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GKOUNTIS, ANGELOS
SENA, DAVID BERNARDINO MARTINS
PAPADOPOULOS, NIKOLAOS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65528192
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for estimating light for augmented reality and electronic device thereof
</title>

<abstract>
A method for operating an electronic device for rendering an augmented reality object is provided. The method includes obtaining at least one first image of an environment in which an augmented reality virtual object is to be displayed, obtaining an environment texture based on the obtained at least one first image, identifying at least one light source in at least one second image by identifying at least one cluster comprising pixels with a brightness value greater than a threshold, determining a position of the at least one light source based on a position of the pixels within the at least one cluster, rendering the augmented reality virtual object based on the obtained environment texture and the determined position of the at least one light source, and displaying the rendered augmented reality virtual object on a display of the electronic device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for operating an electronic device for rendering an augmented reality object, the method comprising: obtaining at least one first image of an environment in which an augmented reality virtual object is to be displayed; obtaining an environment texture based on the obtained at least one first image; identifying at least one cluster comprising pixels with a brightness value greater than a threshold in at least one second image; determining a position of at least one light source in the at least one second image based on a position of the pixels within the at least one cluster; rendering the augmented reality virtual object based on the obtained environment texture and the determined position of the at least one light source; and displaying the rendered augmented reality virtual object on a display of the electronic device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the at least one first image of the environment comprises obtaining a first rectilinear image and a second rectilinear image, and wherein the obtaining of the environment texture comprises distorting the first rectilinear image and the second rectilinear image according to a spherical projection.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining of the at least one first image of the environment comprises obtaining an image to be displayed on a display of the electronic device corresponding to a head mounted display (HMD) device, and wherein the obtaining of the environment texture comprises distorting the obtained image.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the determining of the position of the at least one light source comprises identifying a position of a light source that is present outside of the obtained image among light sources in the environment based on at least one of: a direction of a shadow for an object in the obtained image, a size of the shadow, or a brightness value of pixels associated with the object other than the at least one light source.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the position of the at least one light source comprises: setting a first value to first pixels in the at least one second image based on identifying that the brightness value of the first pixels is greater than the threshold; and setting a second value to second pixels in the at least one second image based upon identifying that the brightness value of the second pixels is less than the threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the position of the at least one light source comprises: identifying a geometrical center point of the pixels in each of the at least one cluster; and setting the geometrical center point to a position of the each of the at least one light source.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining relative intensities of two or more of the at least one light source based on a number of pixels in each of the at least one cluster, wherein one light source corresponding to a cluster with more pixels is determined to have a higher intensity than another light source corresponding to a cluster with fewer pixels.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one second image comprises the environment texture obtained based on the at least one first image.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining the at least one second image based on a lower exposure setting than the at least one first image.
10. An electronic device for rendering an augmented reality object, the electronic device comprising: a display; an image sensor; at least one processor coupled to the display and the image sensor; and a memory coupled to the at least one processor, the memory including instructions executable by the least one processor and configured to cause the at least one processor to: obtain at least one first image of an environment in which an augmented reality virtual object is to be displayed by using the image sensor, identify at least one cluster comprising pixels with a brightness value greater than a threshold in at least one second image, determine a position of at least one light source in the at least one second image based on a position of the pixels within the at least one cluster, render the augmented reality virtual object based on an environment texture of the at least one first image and the determined position of the at least one light source, and display the rendered augmented reality virtual object on the display.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein, to obtain the at least one first image of the environment, the at least one processor is further configured to obtain a first rectilinear image and a second rectilinear image by using the image sensor, and wherein, to obtain the environment texture, the at least one processor is further configured to distort the first rectilinear image and the second rectilinear image according to a spherical projection.
12. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein, to obtain the at least one first image of the environment, the at least one processor is further configured to obtain an image to be displayed on the display of the electronic device corresponding to a head mounted display (HMD) device, by using the image sensor, and wherein, to obtain the environment texture, the at least one processor is further configured to distort the obtained image.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein, in order to determine the position of the at least one light source, the at least one processor is further configured to identify a position of a light source that is present outside of the obtained image among light sources in the environment based on at least one of: a direction of a shadow for an object in the obtained image, a size of the shadow, or a brightness value of pixels associated with the object other than the at least one light source.
14. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein, in order to determine the position of the at least one light source, the at least one processor is further configured to: set a first value to first pixels in the at least one second image based on identifying that the brightness value of the first pixels is greater than the threshold, and set a second value to second pixels in the at least one second image based upon identifying that the brightness value of the second pixels is less than the threshold.
15. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein, in order to determine the position of the at least one light source, the at least one processor is further configured to: identify a geometrical center point of the pixels in each of the at least one cluster, and set the geometrical center point to a position of the each of the at least one light source.
16. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to determine relative intensities of two or more of the at least one light source based on a number of pixels in each of the at least one cluster, and wherein one light source corresponding to a cluster with more pixels is determined to have a higher intensity than another light source corresponding to a cluster with fewer pixels.
17. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the at least one second image comprises the environment texture obtained based on the at least one first image.
18. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to obtain the at least one second image based on a lower exposure setting than the at least one first image.
19. A computer program product comprising computer program instructions which, when executed, perform a method comprising: obtaining at least one first image of an environment in which an augmented reality virtual object is to be displayed; obtaining an environment texture based on the obtained at least one first image; identifying at least one cluster comprising pixels with a brightness value greater than a threshold in at least one second image; determining a position of at least one light source in the at least one second image based on a position of the pixels within the at least one cluster; rendering the augmented reality virtual object based on the obtained environment texture and the determined position of the at least one light source; and displaying the rendered augmented reality virtual object on a display of an electronic device.
20. At least one non-transitory computer readable storage medium arranged to store a computer program product, the computer program product comprising computer program instructions which, when executed, perform a method comprising: obtaining at least one first image of an environment in which an augmented reality virtual object is to be displayed; obtaining an environment texture based on the obtained at least one first image; identifying at least one cluster comprising pixels with a brightness value greater than a threshold in at least one second image; determining a position of at least one light source in the at least one second image based on a position of the pixels within the at least one cluster; rendering the augmented reality virtual object based on an environment texture of the at least one first image and the determined position of the at least one light source; and displaying the rendered augmented reality virtual object on a display of an electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
