<document>

<filing_date>
2016-01-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F02D41/22,G01M13/00,G01M15/14,G05B23/02,G07C3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAFRAN AIRCRAFT ENGINES
</assignee>

<inventors>
LACAILLE, JEROME, HENRI, NOEL
GRIFFATON, JULIEN, CHRISTIAN, PASCAL
DUPONT, AUDREY
BOITEUX, JEAN-MICHEL
BENSE, WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52779915
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method, system and computer program for learning phase of an acoustic or vibratory analysis of a machine
</title>

<abstract>
A method of analysis of the state of operation of a machine including a learning step supplementing a reference database with one or more thresholds for one or more indicators calculated on the basis of signals delivered by a sensor associated with the machine, the learning step including the following operations implemented by a computer processing unit; an acquisition of signals characteristic of normal operation and of abnormal operation of the machine; of each of the signals characteristic of normal operation, formation of at least one so-called deviation signal by implementing a mathematical operation having as attributes the signal characteristic of normal operation and one of the signals characteristic of normal or abnormal operation other than the signal characteristic of the normal operation; for each of the deviation signals, calculation of an indicator; determination of an indicator threshold representative of a limit between normal operation and abnormal operation of the machine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of analyzing an operational state of a machine comprising: a learning step to provide information to a reference database on one or more thresholds for one or more indicators calculated from signals provided by one or more sensors associated with the machine, wherein the learning step is implemented by a computerized processing unit and comprises: acquiring signals characteristic of normal operation of the machine and signals characteristic of abnormal operation of the machine; for each of the signals characteristic of normal operation of the machine, calculating a mathematical operation whose attributes are the signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and one of the signals characteristic of normal or abnormal operation of the machine other than said signal characteristic of normal operation, the result of said calculating being a signal called deviation signal; for each of the deviation signals, calculating an indicator; determining, from the calculated indicators, an indicator threshold that allows distinguishing deviation signals calculated from a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and from another signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine from deviation signals calculated from a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and from a signal characteristic of abnormal operation of the machine; and recording the indicator threshold in the reference database.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising a machine test step with a signal provided by a sensor associated with the machine, wherein the machine test step comprises the operations of: forming a test signal by implementing said mathematical operation whose attributes are the signal provided by the sensor and a reference signal; calculating an indicator of the test signal; comparing the test signal indicator with the indicator threshold recorded in the reference database, in order to determine the operational state of the machine.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the signals provided by the sensor are transformed into the frequency domain prior to calculating the deviation signals.
4. The method according to claim 3, wherein the signals provided by the sensor are sampled over a measurement period during which an engine speed of the machine is variable, wherein the sampled signals are synchronized according to variations in the engine speed over the measurement period, and wherein the synchronized sampled signals are transformed into the frequency domain in order to obtain frequency lines ordered according to a shaft rotation speed.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein each calculated indicator is one from amongst a statistical moment of the signal and an energy of the signal.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the calculating a deviation signal indicator is performed by counting a number of points in the deviation signal subtracted from a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine that are present outside an envelope of said signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating a deviation signal indicator is performed by counting a number of peaks from amongst n peaks in the signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine which coincide with a peak from amongst p peaks of the signal subtracted from said signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine.
8. The method according claim 1, wherein the learning step comprises a secondary phase during which a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine is formed by combining several signals characteristic of normal operation of the machine.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the sensor is an acoustic sensor or a vibratory sensor.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein calculating the at least one deviation signal is performed through calculating said mathematical operation between the signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and each of the signals characteristic of normal or abnormal operation of the machine other than said signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein said mathematical operation is a subtraction.
12. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing program instructions for causing a computer to perform the method according to claim 1.
13. A system for the analysis of an operational state of a machine, comprising: a module for acquiring a signal provided by a sensor associated with the machine; a reference database wherein are recorded one or more thresholds for one or more indicators calculated from signals provided by said sensor; a module for calculating deviation signals configured to calculate, for each of signals characteristic of normal operation of the machine, at least one deviation signal by implementing a mathematical operation whose attributes are the signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and one signals characteristic of normal or abnormal operation of the machine other than said signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine; a module for calculating indicators configured to calculate, for each of the deviation signals, an indicator; and a module for determining indicator thresholds configured to determine, from the deviation signal indicators, an indicator threshold allowing the deviation signals, formed from a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and from another signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine, to be distinguished from deviation signals formed from a signal characteristic of normal operation of the machine and from a signal characteristic of abnormal operation of the machine, and for recording the indicator threshold in the reference database.
</claims>
</document>
