<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
DU, NAN
FAN, WEI
XIE, YUSHENG
ZHAI, JING
ZHOU, DAWEN
ZHU, WEICHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60989517
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods of determining sufficient causes from multiple outcomes
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed for question generation to infer the most probable cause from the observable outcome and known Noisy-OR causal relations. In embodiments, the outcomes are sorted by indices according to an order including but not limited to the outcomes' natural frequency order, expert-labeled order, machine-learning derived order, etc. According to their assigned indices, in embodiments, observed outcomes with lower indices are assigned for exact inference while observed outcomes with higher indices are assigned for variational inference. In embodiments, results of exact inference and variational inference are combined to predict the most probable cause. The unique combination of exact inference and variational inference according to outcome indices makes the probable cause inferring process faster.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining a set of probable causes from a set of observed outcomes, the method comprising: obtaining the set of observed outcomes comprising one or more positive observed outcomes; ordering at least some of the positive observed outcomes from the set of observed outcomes according to a pre-assigned index, in which each positive observed outcome of the at least some of the positive observed outcomes has an associated pre-assigned index; dividing the ordered positive observed outcomes into a first set of outcomes and a second set of outcomes based on the ordering; determining an inferred probability for each cause of a set of causes using both the first set of outcomes and the second set of outcomes, in which the first set of outcomes is used in a variational inference process and the second set of outcomes is used in an exact inference process; outputting the set of probable causes comprising the causes with inferred probabilities above a threshold probability value.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the ordering step further comprises: removing one or more of the observed outcomes from the set of observed outcomes, based on a low level of importance indicated by the pre-assigned index.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-assigned index value for at least one of the observed outcomes in the set of observed outcomes is based upon a natural frequency of occurrence.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-assigned indexing is based upon a labeled ordering.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein the pre-assigned index for at least one of the observed outcomes in the set of observed outcomes is based on a machine learning-derived order.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising inferring a most probable one of the set of probable causes based on a highest probability of the inferred probabilities.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising updating the ordering using ground truth and machine learning.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the variational inference process is implemented using convex conjugate minimization or loopy propagation.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein the exact inference process is implemented using quick score, singly-coupled pair elimination, or quartet test.
10. A method for determining potential causes from multiple sufficient outcomes, the method comprising: obtaining a set of observables comprising positive observables and negative observables, the negative observables being confirmations of not observing, the set of observations being related with a set of potential causes; determining a single negative observable probability for each negative observable; applying each single negative observable probability to determine a first joint probability of the negative observables; dividing at least some of the positive observables into a first group and a second group based on pre-set index values, in which each positive observable of the at least some positive observables has an associated pre-set index; selecting exact inference for the positive observables of the first group and variational inference for the positive observables of the second group; determining a probability of each of the positive observables of the second group, which was selected for variational inference using variational transformation; determining a second joint probability of the positive observables of the second group, which were selected for variational inference; determining a third joint probability of the set of observables using the second joint probability of the second group of positive observables and the first joint probability of the negative observables; and determining an inferred probability for each cause of the set of potential causes using the third joint probability of the set of observables.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprises filtering out one or more of the positive observables based on the pre-set index.
12. The method of claim 10 further comprises optimizing an upper bound for the variational transformation before implementing the variational transformation.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein optimizing the upper bound comprises: transforming a probability function of each of the second group of positive observables selected for variational transformation as a concave function; and using a conjugate function of the concave function as the upper bound.
14. The method of claim 10 further comprising inferring a most probable cause of the set of potential causes based on a highest probability of the inferred probabilities.
15. The method of claim 10 wherein the variational inference transformation is implemented using convex conjugate minimization or loopy propagation.
16. The method of claim 10 wherein the single negative observable probability for each negative observable is transformed into a factorized form using an exact transformation.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium or media comprising one or more sequences of instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, causes the steps to be performed comprising: receiving a set of observables and an index for ordering each observable of the set of observables, the set of observables being related to a set of possible causes; dividing the set of observables into a first set of observables and a second set of observables based on the index to each observable of the set of observables; calculating a probability for each cause of the set of possible causes based upon both the first set of observables and the second set of observables, in which the observables of the first set are used in a variational inference and the observables of the second set are used in an exact inference; and inferring a most probable cause from the set of possible causes based on a highest calculated probability.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 17 wherein the set of observables comprises positive observables and negative observables, the negative observables being the confirmations of not observing.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the negative observables are used for the exact inference.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein a positive observable is omitted from calculation, used for the exact inference, or used for the variational inference based on the index assigned to it.
</claims>
</document>
