<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06Q40/00,G07D9/00,G07F19/00,G08B13/196
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OKI ELECTRIC IND COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KOIKE, HIDETO
MASUDA, MAKOTO
KISHI, REIKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60952884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Surveillance device
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a surveillance device that monitors an operation section of an automated transaction device, the surveillance device including: a learning holding section that learns and holds a reference scene data set in which a reference operation is divided into a sequence of action items; a feature extraction section that extracts actual target action data from actual scene data of the sequence of action items in an operation of a user, the actual scene data obtained from an imaging section that faces and images the operation section; and a detection section that associates actual target action data with a reference scene data set along the sequence of action items, compares for each of the action items, determines an anomaly level of the operation of the user, and outputs an anomalous occurrence signal according to the anomaly level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A surveillance device that monitors an operation section of an automated transaction device, the surveillance device comprising: a learning holding section that learns and holds a reference scene data set in which a reference operation is divided into a sequence of action items; a feature extraction section that extracts actual target action data from actual scene data of the sequence of action items in an operation of a user, the actual scene data obtained from an imaging section that faces and images the operation section; and a detection section that associates actual target action data with the reference scene data set along the sequence of action items, compares the associated actual target action data with the reference scene data set for each of the action items, determines an anomaly level of the operation of the user, and outputs an anomalous occurrence signal according to the anomaly level, wherein the action items are classified by images of partial regions within a single scene in the reference scene data.
2. The surveillance device of claim 1, wherein the learning holding section holds at least one analysis region in correspondence with the action item and in an association to the reference scene data, the analysis region encompassing an image of part of the operation section in the reference scene data.
3. The surveillance device of claim 2, wherein the analysis region is set for each different location corresponding to different actions at the operation section.
4. The surveillance device of claim 3, wherein the analysis region is set in accordance with content of a particular action at the operation section, or in accordance with a frequency level of an action at the operation section.
5. The surveillance device of claim 1, wherein: the feature extraction section extracts a feature amount from the actual scene data as the actual target action data; and the detection section compares the feature amount against the reference scene data to calculate an anomalous value of the feature amount, and determines the anomaly level from the anomalous value and an importance level for each of the action items.
6. The surveillance device of claim 5, wherein the importance level is set as a ranking according to content of a particular action at the operation section.
7. The surveillance device of claim 1, wherein the detection section identifies times of transition of the action items based on content of the actual scene data, or based on status information acquired from the automated transaction device.
8. The surveillance device of claim 1, wherein the detection section determines a start timing of an action when there is movement of a user in a video image from the actual scene data.
9. The surveillance device of claim 1, further comprising a response section that, according to the anomalous occurrence signal, issues a warning to a user with a recorded or remote voice.
10. The surveillance device of claim 1, further comprising a response section that, according to the anomalous occurrence signal, uses light emission or display notation to visually notify an anomaly to a user or a peripheral person.
11. The surveillance device of claim 1, further comprising a response section that, according to the anomalous occurrence signal, retains a record of video data imaged by the imaging section.
12. The surveillance device of claim 1, further comprising a response section that, according to the anomalous occurrence signal, makes the automated transaction device unusable.
13. The surveillance device of claim 1, further comprising a response section that, according to the anomalous occurrence signal, images the face of a user and keep this data.
14. A surveillance device that monitors an operation section of an automated transaction device, the surveillance device comprising: a learning holding section that learns and holds a reference scene data set in which a reference operation is divided into a sequence of action items; a feature extraction section that extracts actual target action data from actual scene data of the sequence of action items in an operation of a user, the actual scene data obtained from an imaging section that faces and images the operation section; and a detection section that associates actual target action data with the reference scene data set along the sequence of action items, compares the associated actual target action data with the reference scene data set for each of the action items, determines an anomaly level of the operation of the user, and outputs an anomalous occurrence signal according to the anomaly level, wherein the detection section identifies types of operation for a plurality of processes capable of being performed on the automated transaction device according to content of the actual scene data or based on status information acquired from the automated transaction device.
15. A surveillance device that monitors an operation section of an automated transaction device, the surveillance device comprising: a learning holding section that learns and holds a reference scene data set in which a reference operation is divided into a sequence of action items; a feature extraction section that extracts actual target action data from actual scene data of the sequence of action items in an operation of a user, the actual scene data obtained from a first imaging section that faces and images the operation section; a detection section that associates actual target action data with the reference scene data set along the sequence of action items, compares the associated actual target action data with the reference scene data set for each of the action items, determines an anomaly level of the operation of the user, and outputs an anomalous occurrence signal according to the anomaly level; a second imaging section that images the vicinity of a front face of the operation section; and a face detection and matching section including registered data of human faces for matching with the face of a user, wherein the face detection and matching section detects, by performing face detection by the second imaging section, when a person enters or when a person leaves a position in front of the automated transaction device, and to notify the detection section of a timing of a start or an end of an action.
16. The surveillance device of claim 15, wherein the face detection and matching section changes a parameter of the feature extraction section or the detection section, in a case in which the face detection and matching section has detected that the face of a user bears a strong resemblance to a person registered in the registered data.
17. The surveillance device of claim 15, wherein the face detection and matching section changes a parameter of the feature extraction section or the detection section, in a case in which the face detection and matching section has detected that some or most of the face of a user is concealed.
18. The surveillance device of claim 15, wherein the face detection and matching section changes a parameter of the feature extraction section or the detection section according to an age or gender identified for the user by detecting the face of the user.
19. The surveillance device of claim 15, wherein the face detection and matching section changes a parameter of the feature extraction section or the detection section, in a case in which the face of a user is determined as the face of a particular individual who is registered.
20. The surveillance device of claim 15, wherein the face detection and matching section matches the face of a user detected when an anomalous occurrence signal was acquired from the detection section with the registered data, and registers the face of the user in the registered data in cases in which there is no one with a resemblance to the user in the registered data.
</claims>
</document>
