<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/14,G06T15/20,G06T19/20,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE Q DIGITAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KING WILLIAM A.
ESCHRICHT, JAMES G.
KOO, SUNGKYU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178571
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and system for manipulating digital assets on a three-dimensional viewing platform
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the present disclosure describe various methods and a system for manipulating digital assets on a three-dimensional viewing platform. The method may include configuring at least one dome layer as part of a dome framework having a spherical virtual environment that surrounds a user, virtually displaying, within a gaze area for the user, at least one screen in the at least one dome layer, wherein one or more digital assets are provided to the user through the at least one screen, and enabling the user to interact with the one or more digital assets on the at least one screen. The system may include a memory configured to store instructions, and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform the method.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for manipulating digital assets on a three-dimensional viewing platform, comprising: configuring a dome framework that supports a plurality of dome layers and has a user-centric center point and a center area around the center point with a full spherical virtual environment that surrounds (1) a user, (2) the center point, and (3) the center area, wherein the dome framework is a framing approach for positioning one or more vertices to generate screens on the plurality of dome layers, wherein each screen functions independently from any other screen, and each screen has user-centric interface rules regarding a screen size and distance from the user; create a gaze area for the user to focus and for virtually displaying the screens, and initiating the one or more vertices in the gaze area to provide a pivot point for generating and manipulating each screen; generating at least one dome layer of the plurality of dome layers supported by the dome framework; virtually displaying, within the gaze area, the screens in the generated at least one dome layer, wherein one or more digital assets are provided to the user through the screens and the digital assets comprise content projected on the screens from a different user in another three-dimensional viewing platform; and enabling the user to interact with the one or more digital assets on the screens.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the gaze area comprises the full spherical virtual environment.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the user is positioned near or at the center point of the spherical virtual environment.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein virtually displaying the screens within the gaze area includes virtually displaying multiple screens, the multiple screens being arranged horizontally, vertically, in a matrix, or in a random fashion.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising selecting one or more screens from the multiple screens for focused viewing by the user, wherein the selected one or more screens for focused viewing are virtually displayed to appear closer to the user than unselected screens.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising adjusting the selected one or more screens for focused viewing in size, position, viewing direction, or a combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: configuring the dome framework includes configuring multiple concentric dome layers as part of the dome framework, and virtually displaying the screens within the gaze area includes virtually displaying at least one screen in each of the dome layers.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the dome layers include an initial or default dome layers and one or more additional dome layers, the initial dome layer having a radius corresponding to the radius of the spherical virtual environment that surrounds the user, and the one or more additional dome layers each having a radius that is greater than the radius of the initial dome layer.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the one or more digital assets are provided to the user through the at least one screen in each of the dome layers.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the screens has a screen axis or pivot point associated with a direction each screen faces, and wherein the direction is configured to face the user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein each screen includes a screen border within which to display or enable custom functions.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising adjusting a size of one of the screens by adding one or more screens to form a larger screen.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the user is free to rotate view direction within the spherical virtual environment and within the gaze area or in a different gaze area, the rotation of the user including a change in roll, a change in pitch, a change in yaw, or a combination thereof.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein virtually displaying the screens within the gaze area for the user further includes rotating the screens about a screen axis, the rotation including a clockwise rotation, a counterclockwise rotation, a front-to-back rotation, a back-to-front rotation, a top-to-bottom rotation, a bottom-to-top rotation, a partial one of any of these rotations, or a combination of any of these rotations.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein virtually displaying the screens within the gaze area for the user further includes rotating the screens between a landscape/horizontal position and a portrait/vertical position.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising interacting with the different user through one of the screens.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes viewing through the one screen a screen of the different user.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes viewing through the one screen a same content screen that the different user is also viewing.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes working on a same project instance through the one screen.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes verifying the different user and providing access to a project instance when the other different user is verified.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes identifying, for a project instance, a work logic identifier that indicates a particular project workflow including pre-defined tools and user interactions.
22. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes analyzing data for the user and the other different user and generating patterns based on the analyzed data for future projects or to review a current project.
23. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user includes having a dome layer for each user, monitoring an indicator movement for each of the users through each user input and output patterns, and setting up types of functions and schemes supported in each of the layers based on the input and output pattern of a respective user.
24. The method of claim 16, wherein interacting with the different user include reading a pattern of user indicators and generating patterns from movement in the user indicators to improve an efficiency of future use of same or similar project workflow.
25. The method of claim 1, further comprising for the one or more digital assets, performing a stream texture UV mapping process and assigning a corresponding identifier (ID) to each UV map in the process.
26. A system for manipulating digital assets on a three-dimensional viewing platform, comprising: a memory configured to store instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: configure a dome framework that supports a plurality of dome layers and has a user-centric center point and a center area around the center point with a full spherical virtual environment that surrounds (1) a user, (2) the center point, and (3) the center area, wherein the dome framework is a framing approach for positioning one or more vertices to generate screens on the plurality of dome layers, wherein each screen functions independently from any other screen, and each screen has user-centric interface rules regarding a screen size and distance from the user; create a gaze area for the user to focus and for virtually displaying the screens, and initiate the one or more vertices in the gaze area to provide a pivot point for generating and manipulating each screen; generate at least one dome layer of the plurality of dome layers supported by the dome framework; virtually display, within the gaze area, the screens in the generated at least one dome layer, wherein one or more digital assets are provided to the user through the screens and the digital assets comprise content projected on the screens from a different user in another three-dimensional viewing platform; and enable the user to interact with the one or more digital assets on the screens.
</claims>
</document>
