<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0485,G06F3/0488,G06F40/171,G06K9/22,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIVINGSTON, ELISE LEIGH
SCHREIBER, PATRICK EDGAR
KEIROUZ, RACHEL ANN
EDEN, HEATHER STRONG
TRAN, TRACY THUYDUYEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69160293
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method of receiving and converting digital ink input
</title>

<abstract>
A method of and system for receiving, processing, converting and verifying digital ink input is carried out by receiving digital ink input, collecting data relating to the received digital ink input, and receiving a request to convert the received digital ink input. Upon receiving the request, the received digital ink input may be recognized as text characters based at least in part on an analysis of the digital ink input and the converted characters may be displayed on a screen adjacent to the received digital ink input, at which point a user may be able to compare the received digital ink input with the recognized characters to initiate any corrections needed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: one or more processors; and a memory in communication with the one or more processors, the memory comprising executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the device to perform functions of: receiving digital ink input in a digital ink enabled document; collecting data relating to the received digital ink input; determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete; upon determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete, recognizing the received digital ink input as one or more text characters based at least in part on the received digital ink input; displaying the one or more recognized text characters as converted characters on a screen adjacent to the received digital ink input; and enabling corrections to be made to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input to correct a misrecognized character, wherein determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete includes receiving a user request inputted after completing the document.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the device to perform functions of: receiving an indication that a correction to the converted characters or the received digital ink input is needed; receiving a modification to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input; collecting data relating to the modification; and storing the collected data for use in future character recognition.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the converted characters are displayed on the screen adjacent to the received digital ink input to enable bulk comparison of the converted characters with all of the received digital ink input for verifying accuracy.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the executable instructions when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the device to perform functions of receiving acceptance of the converted characters.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the user request inputted after completing the document includes an indication that a user interface element has been invoked.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the data relating to the received digital ink input includes at least one of direction of stroke, timing, velocity of stroke, writing instrument position, tilt and pressure.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein recognizing the received digital ink input as one or more text characters is done based at least in part on a context of the digital ink input.
8. A method for providing digital ink input processing comprising: receiving digital ink input in a digital ink enabled document; collecting data relating to the received digital ink input; determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete; upon determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete, recognizing the received digital ink input as one or more text characters based at least in part on the received digital ink input; displaying the one or more recognized text characters as converted characters on a screen adjacent to the received digital ink input; and enabling corrections to be made to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input to correct a misrecognized character, wherein determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete includes receiving a user request inputted after completing the document.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving an indication that a correction to the converted characters or the received digital ink input is needed; receiving a modification to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input; collecting data relating to the modification; and storing the collected data for use in future character recognition.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the converted characters are displayed on the screen adjacent to the received digital ink input to enable bulk comparison of the converted characters with all of the received digital ink input for verifying accuracy.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising receiving acceptance of the converted characters.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the user request inputted after completing the document includes an indication that a user interface element has been invoked.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the data relating to the received digital ink input includes at least one of direction of stroke, timing, velocity of stroke, writing instrument position, tilt and pressure.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium on which are stored instructions that when executed cause a programmable device to: receive digital ink input in a digital ink enabled document; collect data relating to the received digital ink input; determine that digital ink input entry into the document is complete; upon determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete, recognize the received digital ink input as one or more text characters based at least in part on the received digital ink input; display the one or more recognized text characters as converted characters on a screen adjacent to the received digital ink input; and enable corrections to be made to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input to correct a misrecognized character, wherein determining that digital ink input entry into the document is complete includes receiving a user request inputted after completing the document.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the instructions further cause the programmable device to: receive an indication that a correction to the converted characters or the received digital ink input is needed; receive a modification to at least one of the converted characters or the received digital ink input; collect data relating to the modification; and store the collected data for use in future character recognition.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the converted characters are displayed on the screen adjacent to the received digital ink input to enable bulk comparison of the one or more recognized text characters with all of the received digital ink input for verifying accuracy.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein the data relating to the received digital ink input includes at least one of direction of stroke, timing, velocity of stroke, writing instrument position, tilt and pressure.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising receiving acceptance of the converted characters.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, further comprising receiving rejection of the converted characters.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 14, wherein recognizing the received digital ink input as one or more text characters is done based at least in part on a context of the digital ink input.
</claims>
</document>
