<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/20,H04M11/00,H04M3/42,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BURLISON, JR., JOHN C.
CALVO, ISAAC ALEXANDER
PATEL, BINABEN DIPESH
RAHMAN, MASUDUR
VEMURI, BHARADWAJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71944679
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for monitoring and remediating trouble conditions using machine learning techniques
</title>

<abstract>
A system described herein may use automated techniques, such as machine learning techniques, to analyze device snapshots from a group of User Equipment ("UEs"), and determine trouble conditions that are experienced by the UEs. The system may identify markers of the trouble conditions based on the snapshots, and may use these markers to predict or identify trouble conditions at other UEs based on snapshots received from the other UEs. Further, once a trouble condition is predicted or identified at the other UEs, the trouble condition may be proactively addressed, without requiring an explicit request from the other UEs to address the trouble condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a set of processor-executable instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the set of processor-executable instructions, wherein executing the set of processor-executable instructions causes the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of snapshots associated with a plurality of User Equipment ("UEs"), wherein each snapshot, of the plurality of snapshots, includes information describing attributes of a specific UE, of the plurality of UEs, at a particular time; identify, based on the plurality of snapshots, one or more markers of a particular trouble condition associated with one or more UEs, of the plurality of UEs; receive one or more snapshots associated with a particular UE, wherein the one or more snapshots each include information describing attributes of the particular UE at a respective time; compare the attributes of the particular UE, as indicated by the one or more snapshots associated with the particular UE, to the identified one or more markers of the particular trouble condition; determine, based on the comparing, that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition; and perform a remedial action based on the determination that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the remedial action being performed without a request from the particular UE to perform the remedial action, wherein performing the remedial action includes: identifying, based on the identified particular trouble condition, one or more particular selections of a menu associated with an interactive voice response ("IVR") system, determining that a call has been received from the particular UE, select, without user interaction via the particular UE, the one or more particular selections of the menu, and present, to the particular UE and based on the received call, one or more menu options, associated with the IVR system, that are associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the menu.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein executing the processor-executable instructions, to perform the remedial action, further causes the one or more processors to: determine an identifier associated with the particular UE; and notify a customer support system that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the notifying including providing the identifier associated with the particular UE to the customer support system.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein executing the processor-executable instructions, to perform the remedial action, further causes the one or more processors to: present the one or more options, associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the menu, to the particular UE in lieu of presenting a generic IVR menu to the particular UE.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein executing the processor-executable instructions, to identify the one or more markers, further causes the one or more processors to identify the one or more markers using one or more machine learning techniques.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein executing the processor-executable instructions, to identify the one or more markers of the particular trouble condition associated with a first UE, of the one or more UEs, further causes the one or more processors to: determine a difference between a first snapshot, associated with the first UE at a first time, and a second snapshot associated with the first UE at a second time.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the attributes of the particular UE include at least one of: a list of applications installed at the particular UE, a status of a battery of the UE, or a network connectivity status of the UE.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein executing the processor-executable instructions further causes the one or more processors to: receive information describing attributes of another UE that is associated with a same user as the particular UE, wherein the determination, that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, is further based on the information describing attributes of another UE that is associated with a same user as the particular UE.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing a set of processor-executable instructions, which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of snapshots associated with a plurality of User Equipment ("UEs"), wherein each snapshot, of the plurality of snapshots, includes information describing attributes of a specific UE, of the plurality of UEs, at a particular time; identify, based on the plurality of snapshots, one or more markers of a particular trouble condition associated with one or more UEs, of the plurality of UEs; receive one or more snapshots associated with a particular UE, wherein the one or more snapshots each include information describing attributes of the particular UE at a respective time; compare the attributes of the particular UE, as indicated by the one or more snapshots associated with the particular UE, to the identified one or more markers of the particular trouble condition; determine, based on the comparing, that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition; and perform a remedial action based on the determination that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the remedial action being performed without a request from the particular UE to perform the remedial action, wherein performing the remedial action includes: identifying, based on the identified particular trouble condition, one or more particular selections of a menu associated with an interactive voice response ("IVR") system, determining that a call has been received from the particular UE, select, without user interaction via the particular UE, the one or more particular selections of the menu, and present, to the particular UE and based on the received call, one or more menu options, associated with the IVR system, that are associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the menu.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the processor-executable instructions, to perform the remedial action, further include processor-executable instructions to: determine an identifier associated with the particular UE; and notify a customer support system that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the notifying including providing the identifier associated with the particular UE to the customer support system.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the processor-executable instructions, to perform the remedial action, further include processor-executable instructions to: present the one or more options, associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the IVR menu, to the particular UE in lieu of presenting a generic IVR menu to the particular UE.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the processor-executable instructions, to identify the one or more markers, further include processor-executable instructions to identify the one or more markers using one or more machine learning techniques.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the processor-executable instructions, to identify the one or more markers of the particular trouble condition associated with a first UE, of the one or more UEs, further include processor-executable instructions to: determine a difference between a first snapshot, associated with the first UE at a first time, and a second snapshot associated with the first UE at a second time.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the attributes of the particular UE include at least one of: a list of applications installed at the particular UE, a status of a battery of the UE, or a network connectivity status of the UE.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the set of processor-executable instructions further includes processor-executable instructions to: receive information describing attributes of another UE that is associated with a same user as the particular UE, wherein the determination, that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, is further based on the information describing attributes of another UE that is associated with a same user as the particular UE.
15. A method, comprising: receiving, by a device, a plurality of snapshots associated with a plurality of User Equipment ("UEs"), wherein each snapshot, of the plurality of snapshots, includes information describing attributes of a specific UE, of the plurality of UEs, at a particular time; identifying, by the device and based on the plurality of snapshots, one or more markers of a particular trouble condition associated with one or more UEs, of the plurality of UEs; receiving, by the device, one or more snapshots associated with a particular UE, wherein the one or more snapshots each include information describing attributes of the particular UE at a respective time; comparing, by the device, the attributes of the particular UE, as indicated by the one or more snapshots associated with the particular UE, to the identified one or more markers of the particular trouble condition; determining, by the device and based on the comparing, that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition; and performing, by the device, a remedial action based on the determination that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the remedial action being performed without a request from the particular UE to perform the remedial action, wherein performing the remedial action includes: identifying, based on the identified particular trouble condition, one or more particular selections of a menu associated with an interactive voice response ("IVR") system, determining that a call has been received from the particular UE, select, without user interaction via the particular UE, the one or more particular selections of the menu, and present, to the particular UE and based on the received call, one or more menu options, associated with the IVR system, that are associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the menu.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the remedial action further includes: determining an identifier associated with the particular UE; and notifying a customer support system that the particular UE is experiencing the trouble condition or is likely to experience the trouble condition, the notifying including providing the identifier associated with the particular UE to the customer support system.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein performing the remedial action further includes: presenting the one or more options, associated with the selection of the one or more particular selections of the IVR menu, to the particular UE in lieu of presenting a generic IVR menu to the particular UE.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying the one or more markers further includes identifying the one or more markers using one or more machine learning techniques.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying the one or more markers of the particular trouble condition associated with a first UE, of the one or more UEs, further includes: determining a difference between a first snapshot, associated with the first UE at a first time, and a second snapshot associated with the first UE at a second time.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the attributes of the particular UE include: a list of applications installed at the particular UE, a status of a battery of the UE, and a network connectivity status of the UE.
</claims>
</document>
