<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B34/10,A61B6/00,G06K9/32,G06K9/62,G06T15/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU, ZHOUBING
GRBIC, SASA
CHABIN, GUILLAUME
SHAH, AMITKUMAR BHUPENDRAKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67928657
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis of skeletal trauma using deep learning
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for determining whether a bone of a patient is injured are provided. A medical image of a bone of a patient is received. A synthesized bone image is generated over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image. The synthesized bone image represents uninjured bone. The medical image is compared with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining whether a bone of a patient is injured, comprising: receiving a medical image of a bone of a patient; generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone; and comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone comprises: generating the synthesized bone image using a generative adversarial network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone comprises: generating a skeletal segmentation model from the medical image; for each respective region of interest in a plurality of regions of interest in the skeletal segmentation model: defining a mask over the bone in the medical image for the respective region of interest, and generating a synthesized bone image portion over the mask in the medical image for the respective region of interest; and combining the synthesized bone image portions for the plurality of regions of interest to form the synthesized bone image.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient comprises: determining a score for each respective voxel in the medical image representing differences between the respective voxel in the medical image and a corresponding voxel in the reconstructed image.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: outputting a visual depiction of a degree of injury to the bone based on the score for each respective voxel in the medical image.
6. The method of claim 4, further comprising: classifying the injury to the bone for one or more respective landmarks of interest into one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on the score for each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein classifying the injury to the bone for one or more respective landmarks of interest into one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on the score for each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds comprises at least one of: classifying the injury to the bone for the one or more respective landmarks of interest into the one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on an average score of each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds; and classifying the injury to the bone for the one or more respective landmarks of interest into the one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on a cumulative score of each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and the plurality of thresholds.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: for a particular landmark of interest of the one or more landmarks of interest, evaluating the particular landmark of interest using analysis techniques specific to the particular landmark of interest, the particular landmark of interest determined based on a result of the classifying.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: planning a clinical therapy based on results of the analysis techniques specific to the particular landmark of interest.
10. An apparatus for determining whether a bone of a patient is injured, comprising: means for receiving a medical image of a bone of a patient; means for generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone; and means for comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient.
11. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone comprises: means for generating the synthesized bone image using a generative adversarial network.
12. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone comprises: means for generating a skeletal segmentation model from the medical image; for each respective region of interest in a plurality of regions of interest in the skeletal segmentation model: means for defining a mask over the bone in the medical image for the respective region of interest, and means for generating a synthesized bone image portion over the mask in the medical image for the respective region of interest; and means for combining the synthesized bone image portions for the plurality of regions of interest to form the synthesized bone image.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the means for comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient comprises: means for determining a score for each respective voxel in the medical image representing differences between the respective voxel in the medical image and a corresponding voxel in the reconstructed image.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising: means for outputting a visual depiction of a degree of injury to the bone based on the score for each respective voxel in the medical image.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer program instructions for determining whether a bone of a patient is injured, the computer program instructions when executed by a processor cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving a medical image of a bone of a patient; generating a synthesized bone image over the bone in the medical image to provide a reconstructed image, the synthesized bone image representing uninjured bone; and comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein comparing the medical image with the reconstructed image to evaluate an injury to the bone of the patient comprises: determining a score for each respective voxel in the medical image representing differences between the respective voxel in the medical image and a corresponding voxel in the reconstructed image.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: outputting a visual depiction of a degree of injury to the bone based on the score for each respective voxel in the medical image.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, further comprising: classifying the injury to the bone for one or more respective landmarks of interest into one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on the score for each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, wherein classifying the injury to the bone for one or more respective landmarks of interest into one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on the score for each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds comprises at least one of: classifying the injury to the bone for the one or more respective landmarks of interest into the one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on an average score of each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and a plurality of thresholds; and classifying the injury to the bone for the one or more respective landmarks of interest into the one of a plurality of bone injury grades based on a cumulative score of each voxel in the respective landmark of interest and the plurality of thresholds.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 18, further comprising: for a particular landmark of interest of the one or more landmarks of interest, evaluating the particular landmark of interest using analysis techniques specific to the particular landmark of interest, the particular landmark of interest determined based on a result of the classifying.
</claims>
</document>
