<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING DIDI INFINITY TECHNOLOGY AND DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG ZHENG
HU, TAO
WU, ZHENGWEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64658738
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for route planning based on deep convolutional neural network
</title>

<abstract>
The preset application discloses a method for route planning. At least one device including at least one processor and a storage may implement the method. The method may include one or more of the following operations. The device may first obtain a start location and a destination, road characteristic information and a plurality of historical routes. The device may then train a model based on the plurality of historical routes. Then the device may run the trained model to sequentially determine a plurality of road intersections between the start location and the destination, and a target entrance and target exit that corresponding to each of the plurality of the road intersections based on characteristic information. Finally, the device may generate a recommended route from the start location to the based on the target entrances and target exits.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system, comprising: at least one storage medium including a set of instructions for route planning; and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage medium, wherein when executing the set of instructions, the at least one processor is directed to: receive a connection request from a user device of a service requester via a communication port of the system; accept the connection request to establish a connection with the user device; detect a route planning application executing on the user device, the service requesting application on the user device automatically communicating with the system over a network; communicate with the route planning application executing on the user device via the communication port to receive a start location and a destination; operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to receive road characteristic information associated with roads in a road map related to the start location and the destination; operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to execute a trained model to sequentially determine a series of road intersections under a sequence; and operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to execute the trained model to sequentially determine a target entrance and a target exit of each road intersection of the series of road intersections, and a recommended route from the start location to the destination based on the target entrances and target exits of the series of road intersections, wherein the trained model includes at least one of a convolutional neural network (CNN), the road map includes a three-channel RGB map layer as an input of the CNN, and the road characteristic information includes additional channels of map layers as the input of the CNN.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the recommended route is determined by connecting the start location and the destination through the target entrance and the target exit of each road intersection of the series of road intersections under the sequence.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the trained model includes at least one of a convolutional layer, a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) layer, a fully connected layer or a pooling layer.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to: operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to receive a plurality of historical routes; operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to train a model based on the plurality of historical routes to generate the trained model; and generate the recommended route from the start location to the destination based on the trained model and the road characteristic information.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the road characteristic information includes information of at least one of road grades, road lengths, road width, curve radius, speed limit, traffic restriction, traffic lights, traffic accident, or traffic congestion.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one processor is further directed to: operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to select a plurality of target routes from the plurality of historical routes; and operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to generate the route from the start location to the destination based on the road characteristic information and the plurality of target routes.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein a start location or a destination of each of the plurality of target routes is the same as or similar to the start location or the destination received by the at least one processor.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein to select the plurality of target routes the at least one processor is further directed to: operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to determine the quality of each of the plurality of historical routes; and operate logic circuits in the at least one processor to select some of the plurality of historical routes as the target routes based on the quality of the plurality of historical routes.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the quality of each of the plurality of historical routes is determined based on at least one of distance, Estimated Time of Arrival (ETA), degree of safeness, traffic conditions, road types, or sceneries along the route.
10. A method implemented on a computing device having at least one storage device storing a set of instructions for route planning, and at least one processor in communication with the at least one storage device, the method comprising: establishing, by the computing device, a connection with a user device of a service requester; receiving, by the at least one processor, a start location and a destination via the connection; receiving, by the at least one processor, road characteristic information associated with roads in a road map related to the start location and the destination; executing, by the at least one processor, a trained model to sequentially determine a series of road intersections under a sequence; and executing, by the at least one processor, the trained model to sequentially determine a target entrance and a target exit of each road intersection of the series of road intersections, and a recommended route from the start location to the destination based on the target entrances and target exits of the series of road intersections, wherein the trained model includes at least one of a convolutional neural network (CNN), the road map includes a three-channel RGB map layer as an input of the CNN, and the road characteristic information includes additional channels of map layers as the input of the CNN.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the recommended route is determined by connecting the start location and the destination through the target entrance and the target exit of each road intersection of the series of road intersections under the sequence.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the trained model includes at least one of a convolutional layer, a Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) layer, a fully connected layer or a pooling layer.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the at least one processor, structured data encoding a plurality of historical routes; training, by the at least one processor, a model based on the plurality of historical routes to generate a trained model; and generating, by the at least one processor, the recommended route from the start location to the destination based on the trained model and the road characteristic information.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the road characteristic information includes information of at least one of road grades, road lengths, road width, curve radius, speed limit, traffic restriction, traffic lights, traffic accident, or traffic congestion.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selecting, by the at least one processor, a plurality of target routes from the plurality of historical routes; and generating, by the at least one processor, the route from the start location to the destination based on the road characteristic information and the plurality of target routes.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein a start location or a destination of each of the plurality of target routes is the same as or similar to the start location or the destination received by the at least one processor.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the selecting the plurality of target routes includes: determining, by the at least one processor, the quality of each of the plurality of historical routes; and selecting, by the at least one processor, some of the plurality of historical routes as the target routes based on the quality of the plurality of historical routes.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising executable instructions for route planning that, when executed by at least one processor of an electronic device, directs the at least one processor to perform actions of: establishing, by the electronic device, a connection with a user device of a service requester; receiving, by the at least one processor, a start location and a destination, via the connection; receiving, by the at least one processor, road characteristic information associated with roads in a road map related to the start location and the destination; executing, by the at least one processor, a trained model to sequentially determine a series of road intersections under a sequence; and executing, by the at least one processor, the trained model to sequentially determine a target entrance and a target exit of each road intersection of the series of road intersections, and a recommended route from the start location to the destination based on the target entrances and target exits of the series of road intersections, wherein the trained model includes at least one of a convolutional neural network (CNN), the road map includes a three-channel RGB map layer as an input of the CNN, and the road characteristic information includes additional channels of map layers as the input of the CNN.
</claims>
</document>
