<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/22,G08B21/04,G08B27/00,H04B1/034,H04L29/08,H04Q9/00,H04W4/80,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTERGRAPH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ENGLAND, ANDREW JAMES
SIEJA, EDWARD MICHAEL
SANTOS, RENZ ANGELO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60972400
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer-aided dispatch systems and methods utilizing biometrics to assess responder condition and suitability
</title>

<abstract>
A Computer-Aided Dispatch (CAD) system is specially configured to account for the physical condition of emergency personnel, which can affect their ability to effectively handle a particular incident. The CAD system tracks health, stress, and biometric status of each available emergency responder automatically and in real-time based on a wide range of collected information and to assess the suitability of available emergency responders to respond to a given emergency incident based upon such status information. Based on such status information, the CAD system can make intelligent recommendations to the emergency dispatcher by taking into account such things as the emergency responder's past experiences with a particular type of emergency incident, the current and cumulative status of the emergency responder, and projections as to the future condition of the emergency responder if dispatched to handle the emergency incident.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-aided dispatch (CAD) system comprising: a CAD database; and a CAD server subsystem configured to: store, in the CAD database, incident type information for each of a plurality of incident types, the incident type information specifying personnel qualifications for the incident type; receive, for each of a plurality of responders, biometric sensor data generated by a biometric sensor device worn by the responder; store, in the CAD database, the received biometric sensor data; store, in the CAD database, past performance evaluation information for each of a plurality of responders, the past performance evaluation information characterizing how the responder has performed when responding to past instances of each of the plurality of incident types based on the biometric sensor data; receive information for an incident including an incident type; identify a set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident based on the stored personnel qualifications for the incident type; evaluate relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident based on the past performance evaluation information characterizing how the identified responders have performed when responding to past instances of the incident type to determine a most suitable responder for handling the incident; and produce a dispatch recommendation identifying the most suitable responder for handling the incident.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the past performance evaluation information characterizes how the responder reacts to each incident type.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the past performance evaluation information characterizes how the responder has recovered from past instances of the incident type.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the information characterizing how the responder has recovered from past instances of the incident type includes past biometric information and past stress level information from past instances of the incident type.
5. The system according to claim 1, wherein evaluating the relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident comprises: determining a stress level for each identified responder; accessing the CAD database to obtain a predetermined level of performance required for the incident; and determining whether a given responder can meet the level of performance required for the incident based on the determined stress level for the given responder.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein evaluating the relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident comprises: determining, for each identified responder, a projected level of performance for the given responder at an estimated time of arrival at an incident location based on a recovery curve derived for the given responder from past performance of the given responder for instances of the incident type.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein identifying the set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident comprises: identifying the set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident based on personnel qualifications for the incident type and responder qualification information stored in the CAD database.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on a current condition of each available responder determined using biometric sensor data received from a biometric sensor device worn by the responder and healthy range data for the responder stored in the CAD database.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on an estimated time of arrival for each responder based on a current location of the responder and an incident location.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on elapsed times between discrete activities of each responder.
11. A computer-aided dispatch (CAD) method comprising: storing, in a CAD database, incident type information for each of a plurality of incident types, the incident type information specifying personnel qualifications for the incident type; receiving, for each of a plurality of responders, biometric sensor data generated by a biometric sensor device worn by the responder; storing, in the CAD database, the received biometric sensor data; storing, in the CAD database, past performance evaluation information for each of a plurality of responders, the past performance evaluation information characterizing how the responder has performed when responding to past instances of each of the plurality of incident types based on the biometric sensor data; receiving, by a CAD server subsystem, information for an incident including an incident type; identifying, by the CAD server subsystem, a set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident based on the stored personnel qualifications for the incident type; evaluating, by the CAD server subsystem, relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident based on the past performance evaluation information characterizing how the identified responders have performed when responding to past instances of the incident type to determine a most suitable responder for handling the incident; and producing, by the CAD server subsystem, a dispatch recommendation identifying the most suitable responder for handling the incident.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the past performance evaluation information characterizes how the responder reacts to each incident type.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the past performance evaluation information characterizes how the responder has recovered from past instances of the incident type.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the information characterizing how the responder has recovered from past instances of the incident type includes past biometric information and past stress level information from past instances of the incident type.
15. The method according to claim 11, wherein evaluating the relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident comprises: determining a stress level for each identified responder; accessing the CAD database to obtain a predetermined level of performance required for the incident; and determining whether a given responder can meet the level of performance required for the incident based on the determined stress level for the given responder.
16. The method according to claim 11, wherein evaluating the relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident comprises: determining, for each identified responder, a projected level of performance for the given responder at an estimated time of arrival at an incident location based on a recovery curve derived for the given responder from past performance of the given responder for instances of the incident type.
17. The method according to claim 11, wherein identifying the set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident comprises: identifying the set of available responders qualified to respond to the incident based on personnel qualifications for the incident type and responder qualification information stored in the CAD database.
18. The method according to claim 11, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on a current condition of each available responder determined using biometric sensor data received from a biometric sensor device worn by the responder and healthy range data for the responder stored in the CAD database.
19. The method according to claim 11, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on an estimated time of arrival for each responder based on a current location of the responder and an incident location.
20. The method according to claim 11, wherein evaluating relative suitability of the identified responders for the incident is further based on elapsed times between discrete activities of each responder.
</claims>
</document>
