<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/182,H04L12/24,H04W80/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CACERES, MANUEL ENRIQUE
KHAN, TAUSSIF
MINDLIN, SAMUEL CHARLES
SUN, DAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73456494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for sharing multi-access edge computing resources in a wireless network
</title>

<abstract>
An orchestration device may receive a request to register available multi-access edge computing (MEC) resources to be shared with a network operator. For example, the available MEC resources may be provided by a provider operating a MEC host located in an edge region of a radio access network (RAN) associated with the network operator. The orchestration device may receive information related to a requested MEC session to support an application workload for a user equipment in communication with a base station located in the edge region of the RAN and assign at least a portion of the application workload to the MEC host based on a profile for the MEC host and a service level agreement specifying one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload. Accordingly, the orchestration device may cause the portion of the application workload to be transmitted to the MEC host.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a multi-access edge computing (MEC) orchestration device, a request to register available MEC resources to be shared with a network operator, wherein the available MEC resources are provided by a provider operating a MEC host located in an edge region of a radio access network (RAN) associated with the network operator; generating, by the MEC orchestration device, a profile for the MEC host based on one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources provided by the MEC host; receiving, by the MEC orchestration device, information related to a requested MEC session to support an application workload for a user equipment in communication with a base station located in the edge region of the RAN associated with the network operator; assigning, by the MEC orchestration device, at least a portion of the application workload to the MEC host based on the profile for the MEC host and a service level agreement specifying one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload; and causing, by the MEC orchestration device, the portion of the application workload to be transmitted to the MEC host.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: causing one or more test workloads to be executed on the MEC host to determine the one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources, wherein a profile for the available MEC resources is generated based on the one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources satisfying a condition.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: aggregating information related to the available MEC resources provided by the MEC host with information related to a set of available MEC resources provided by the network operator in the edge region of the RAN, wherein the portion of the application workload assigned to the MEC host is a first portion of the application workload; and assigning a second portion of the application workload to the set of available MEC resources provided by the network operator in the edge region of the RAN.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the first portion of the application workload is assigned to the MEC host based on determining that the set of available MEC resources provided by the network operator in the edge region of the RAN are insufficient to satisfy the one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, to a set of MEC hosts located in the edge region of the RAN, a request to register a profile for the available MEC resources to permit the set of MEC hosts to independently record a transaction to register the profile for the available MEC resources in a local copy of a distributed ledger based on a consensus protocol.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the MEC orchestration device is located in one or more of a core network associated with the network operator or the edge region of the RAN associated with the network operator.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, to a set of MEC hosts located in the edge region of the RAN, a request to record a transaction for the portion of the application workload assigned to the MEC host in a distributed ledger, wherein the transaction recorded in the distributed ledger indicates whether one or more actual performance metrics for the portion of the application workload assigned to the MEC host satisfy the one or more performance requirements specified in the service level agreement.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the portion of the application workload is assigned to the MEC host based on a bid to service the application workload from the MEC host.
9. An orchestration device, comprising: one or more memories; and one or more processors, communicatively coupled to the one or more memories, to: aggregate information related to a set of multi-access edge computing (MEC) resources that are shared with a network operator in an edge region of a radio access network (RAN), wherein the set of MEC resources shared with the network operator are provided by one or more providers operating one or more MEC hosts located in the edge region of the RAN; receive information related to a requested MEC session to support an application workload for a user equipment in communication with a base station located in the edge region of the RAN associated with the network operator; assign at least a portion of the application workload to the set of MEC resources that are shared with the network operator based on one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload; and cause the portion of the application workload to be transmitted to the set of MEC resources that are shared with the network operator.
10. The orchestration device of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further to: cause one or more test workloads to be executed on the one or more MEC hosts to determine one or more performance metrics for the set of MEC resources that are shared with the network operator, wherein the portion of the application workload is assigned to the set of MEC resources that are shared with the network operator based on determining that the one or more performance metrics for the set of MEC resources can satisfy the one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload.
11. The orchestration device of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further to: transmit, to a set of MEC hosts in the edge region of the RAN, a request to register one or more profiles for the one or more MEC hosts providing the set of MEC resources to permit the set of MEC hosts to independently record the one or more profiles in a local copy of a distributed ledger based on a consensus protocol.
12. The orchestration device of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors are further to: transmit, to a set of MEC hosts in the edge region of the RAN, a request to record a transaction for the portion of the application workload assigned to the set of MEC resources in a distributed ledger to permit the set of MEC hosts to independently record the transaction in a local copy of the distributed ledger based on a consensus protocol.
13. The orchestration device of claim 12, wherein the transaction indicates whether one or more actual performance metrics for the portion of the application workload satisfy the one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload.
14. The orchestration device of claim 9, wherein the set of MEC resources include one or more hardware processors configured to execute the portion of the application workload assigned to the one or more MEC hosts in a trusted execution environment.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a request to register available MEC resources to be shared with a network operator, wherein the available MEC resources are provided by a MEC host located in an edge region of a radio access network (RAN) associated with the network operator, and wherein the request indicates one or more performance capabilities for the available MEC resources to be shared with the network operator; cause one or more test workloads to be executed on the MEC host to determine one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources, wherein a profile for the available MEC resources is generated based on the one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources and the one or more performance capabilities indicated in the request; receive information related to a requested MEC session to support an application workload for a user equipment in communication with a base station located in the edge region of the RAN associated with the network operator; and assign a portion of the application workload to the MEC host based on a profile for the MEC host indicating that the one or more performance metrics for the available MEC resources or the one or more performance capabilities indicated in the request are sufficient to satisfy one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: aggregate information related to the available MEC resources provided by the MEC host with information related to a set of available MEC resources provided by the network operator in the edge region of the RAN, wherein the portion of the application workload is assigned to the MEC host based on determining that the set of available MEC resources provided by the network operator in the edge region of the RAN are insufficient to satisfy the one or more performance requirements associated with the application workload.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the request is a first request, and wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: transmit, to a set of MEC hosts located in the edge region of the RAN, a second request to register one or more of the profile for the available MEC resources or a transaction for the portion of the application workload assigned to the MEC host in a distributed ledger.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the second request causes the set of MEC hosts to independently register the profile or the transaction in a local copy of the distributed ledger based on a consensus protocol.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the portion of the application workload is assigned to the MEC host based on a bid from the MEC host indicating one or more of an offered cost or an offered quality of service for executing the portion of the application workload using the available MEC resources provided by the MEC host.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: process a transaction for the portion of the application workload assigned to the MEC host based on one or more of the offered cost indicated in the bid or a degree to which one or more actual performance metrics for the application workload met the offered quality of service.
</claims>
</document>
