<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-06-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASHMAN, MATTHEW S.
DOLLAR, PIOTR
KIENZLE, WOLF
NISTER, DAVID
RADOJEVIC, MLADEN
STOJILJKOVIC, IVAN
VUKOSAVLJEVIC, MAGDALENA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51263472
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Stereoscopic object detection leveraging expected object distance
</title>

<abstract>
A method of object detection includes receiving a first image taken from a first perspective by a first camera and receiving a second image taken from a second perspective, different from the first perspective, by a second camera. Each pixel in the first image is offset relative to a corresponding pixel in the second image by a predetermined offset distance resulting in offset first and second images. A particular pixel of the offset first image depicts a same object locus as a corresponding pixel in the offset second image only if the object locus is at an expected object-detection distance from the first and second cameras. The method includes recognizing that a target object is imaged by the particular pixel of the offset first image and the corresponding pixel of the offset second image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of object detection, the method comprising: receiving a first image taken from a first perspective by a first camera; receiving a second image taken from a second perspective, different from the first perspective, by a second camera; spatially changing two-dimensional positions of pixels in the first image relative to corresponding pixels in the second image by a spatial offset distance resulting in spatially offset first and second images, such that a particular pixel of the offset first image depicts a same object locus as a corresponding pixel in the offset second image only if the object locus is at an expected object-detection distance from the first and second cameras, the spatial offset distance being derived from the expected object-detection distance; and recognizing a target object located approximately at the expected object-detection distance from the first and second cameras and imaged by the offset first image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein recognizing includes: applying a machine-learning trained classifier to the offset first image to determine a first confidence of object detection for each pixel in the offset first image; and applying the machine-learning trained classifier to the offset second image to determine a second confidence of object detection for each pixel in the offset second image.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising smoothing the first and second confidences for each of the offset first and second images.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the machine-learning trained classifier is one of a plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers applied to the offset first and second images, each of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers determining first and second confidences of object detection for each pixel in the offset first and second images.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein each of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers are trained for detecting an object at an orientation different than other of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein each of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers are trained for detecting an object of a different size than other of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the machine-learning trained classifier is applied to a set of differently-scaled offset first and second images.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising correlating a confidence of object detection to each region of differently-scaled offset first and second images.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising smoothing a correlated confidence across different resolutions.
10. The method of claim 2, wherein the machine-learning trained classifier is applied to a set of differently-rotated offset first and second images.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein recognizing includes combining a confidence of object detection in the offset first image and a confidence of object detection in the offset second image into a combined confidence of object detection for each corresponding pixel in the offset first and second images.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein combining includes averaging the confidence of object detection in the offset first image and the confidence of object detection in the offset second image.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising discarding one or more combined confidences that are less than a threshold confidence.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising discarding one or more combined confidences if the difference between confidences of object detection in the offset first image and the offset second image is greater than a threshold.
15. A head mounted display device, comprising: a see-through display; a first camera configured to capture a first image from a first perspective; a second camera configured to capture a second image from a second perspective, different from the first perspective; a logic machine; and a storage machine including instructions executable by the logic machine to: receive the first image taken by the first camera; receive the second image taken by the second camera; spatially changing two-dimensional positions of pixels in the first image relative to corresponding pixels in the second image by a spatial offset distance resulting in spatially offset first and second images; and recognize a target object imaged by corresponding pixels of the offset first and second images.
16. The head mounted display device of claim 15, where spatially changing the two-dimensional positions of pixels in the first image is done such that a particular pixel of the offset first image depicts a same object locus as a corresponding pixel in the offset second image only if the object locus is at an expected object-detection distance from the first and second cameras, the spatial offset distance being derived from the expected object-detection distance.
17. A method of finger detection, the method comprising: receiving a first image taken from a first perspective by a first camera of a head mounted display device, the first image including a finger of a wearer of the head mounted display device; receiving a second image taken from a second perspective, different from the first perspective, by a second camera of the head mounted display device, the second image including the finger of the wearer of the head mounted display device; spatially changing two-dimensional positions of pixels in the first image relative to corresponding pixels in the second image by a spatial offset distance resulting in spatially offset first and second images, such that a particular pixel of the offset first image depicts a same finger locus as a corresponding pixel in the offset second image only if the finger locus is at an expected reach distance of the wearer of the head mounted display device, the spatial offset distance being derived from the expected reach distance; and recognizing the finger of the wearer of the head mounted display device located at the expected reach distance and imaged by the offset first image.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein recognizing includes: applying a machine-learning trained classifier to the offset first image to determine a first confidence of finger detection for each pixel in the offset first image; and applying the machine-learning trained classifier to the offset second image to determine a second confidence of finger detection for each pixel in the offset second image.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the machine-learning trained classifier is one of a plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers applied to the offset first and second images, each of the plurality of different machine-learning trained classifiers determining first and second confidences of object detection for each pixel in the offset first and second images.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein recognizing includes combining a confidence of finger detection in the first image and a confidence of finger detection in the second image into a combined confidence of finger detection for each corresponding pixel in the offset first and second images.
</claims>
</document>
