<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/02,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L15/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FORD, JAMES L.
Chadha, Kunal
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73653486
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Resource scheduling with voice controlled devices
</title>

<abstract>
A processing device receives from a speech-detection device intent data and metadata associated with an intent to schedule a resource located in proximity to a location of the speech-detection device. The metadata includes one or more device identifiers associated with one or more devices discovered by the speech-detection device. The processing device determines an availability of resources associated with the one or more device IDs and schedule one of the resources based on the availability. The scheduled resource is located in in proximity to the location of the speech-detection device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from a first speech-detection device, audio data representing an utterance; determining metadata associated with the utterance, the metadata comprising at least one of a first device identifier (ID) of the first speech-detection device or a location of the first speech-detection device and a set of device IDs, each device ID of the set corresponds to another speech-detection device located in proximity to the location of the first speech-detection device and that communicates with the first speech-detection device using a short-range wireless mesh network standard; processing the audio data to determine an intent associated with the utterance and a resource scheduling component to satisfy the intent; determining, by the resource scheduling component, an availability of each meeting room associated with each of the first device ID and the set of device IDs; scheduling, by the resource scheduling component, an available meeting room based on the availability, the available meeting room being in proximity to the location of the first speech-detection device; and outputting to the first speech-detection device an audio confirmation of scheduling the available meeting room.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein scheduling the available meeting room comprises updating a calendar associated with the available meeting room.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: processing the audio data to determine a speaker ID associated with a speaker of the utterance; and updating a calendar associated with speaker ID.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: processing the audio data to determine an equipment constraint associated with the intent, wherein the determining the availability of each meeting room comprises determining the availability of each meeting room associated with each of the first device ID and the set of device IDs in view of the equipment constraint, and wherein scheduling the available meeting room comprises scheduling the available meeting room that meets the equipment constraint.
5. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a resource scheduling component executed by at least one processing device, intent data from a speech-detection device, the intent data comprising an intent to schedule a resource located in proximity to a location of the speech-detection device; receiving, by the resource scheduling component from the speech-detection device, metadata comprising the location of the speech-detection device, a device identifier (ID) that identifies the speech-detection device, and a set of one or more device IDs identifying one or more devices discovered by the speech-detection device, wherein each of the set of one or more device IDs and the device ID is associated with a resource that can be scheduled; determining, by the resource scheduling component, an availability of each resource associated with the set of one or more device IDs and the device ID; and scheduling, by the resource scheduling component, one of the resources associated with the set of one or more device IDs and the device ID based on the availability to obtain a scheduled resource, wherein the scheduled resource is located in proximity to the location of the speech-detection device.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, from the speech-detection device, audio data representing an utterance corresponding to the intent data and the metadata; processing the audio data to determine the intent associated with the utterance; and determining the metadata associated with the utterance.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the one or more devices communicate with the speech-detection device using a short-range wireless mesh network standard.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising outputting to the speech-detection device an audio confirmation of the scheduled resource.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein determining the metadata comprises: retrieving the location and the device ID from a profile associated with the speech-detection device; and retrieving from a radio configuration table the set of one or more device IDs associated with the one or more devices discovered by the speech-detection device, wherein the radio configuration table is stored in response to a discovery process performed by the speech-detection device.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the determining the availability of each resource comprises accessing a calendar associated with the respective device ID.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, from the speech-detection device, audio data representing an utterance corresponding to the intent data and the metadata; and processing the audio data to determine a time constraint associated with the intent for scheduling the resource, wherein the determining the availability of each resource comprises accessing a calendar associated with the respective device ID and determining availability in the calendar in view of the time constraint, and wherein the scheduled resource meets the time constraint.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, from the speech-detection device, audio data representing an utterance corresponding to the intent data and the metadata; processing the audio data to determine an equipment constraint associated with the intent for scheduling the resource, wherein the determining the availability of each resource comprises: filtering the set of device IDs and the device ID based on the equipment constraint to obtain a subset of IDs; and accessing a calendar associated with each of the subset of IDs to determine an availability of the respective resource, and wherein the scheduled resource meets the equipment constraint.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving authentication credentials associated with the device ID; and authenticating the device ID in view of the authentication credentials.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein scheduling the scheduled resource comprises updating a calendar associated with the scheduled resource.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving, from the speech-detection device, audio data representing an utterance corresponding to the intent data and the metadata; processing the audio data to determine a speaker ID associated with a speaker of the utterance; and updating a calendar associated with the speaker ID.
16. A speech-detection device comprising: a microphone; acoustic front end (AFE) circuitry coupled to the microphone to capture audio data corresponding to a spoken utterance; a first radio coupled to a first antenna; a second radio coupled to a second antenna; a processor coupled to the AFE, the first radio, and the second radio, wherein the processor is to: convert the audio data to text data; determine intent data from the text data, the intent data comprising an intent to schedule a resource located in proximity to a location of the speech-detection device; identify a set of one or more speech-detection devices located in proximity to the location of the speech-detection device, wherein the set of one or more speech-detection devices communicate with the speech-detection device via the first radio, wherein a resource is associated with each of the set of one or more speech-detection devices; send a request to a web service via the second radio, the request comprising the intent data and entity data, wherein the entity data specifies the location of the speech-detection device and a set of identifiers corresponding to the set of one or more speech-detection devices located in proximity to the location, wherein the web service, in response to the request, schedules a resource associated with the one of the set of one or more speech-detection devices using the entity data; and receive a response from the web service via the second radio, the response comprising a textual confirmation of a scheduled resource, wherein the scheduled resource is located in proximity to the location of the speech-detection device.
17. The speech-detection device of claim 16, further comprising a speaker coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is further to: convert the text confirmation to an audio response; and output the audio response to the speaker.
18. The speech-detection device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further to process the audio data to determine a speaker ID associated with a speaker of the spoken utterance, wherein the entity data further specifies the speaker ID.
19. The speech-detection device of claim 18, wherein the processor is further to send a request to update a calendar associated with the speaker ID in view of the scheduled resource.
20. The speech-detection device of claim 16, wherein the first radio is a wireless personal area network (PAN) radio, and wherein the second radio is a wireless local area network (WLAN) radio.
</claims>
</document>
