<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L29/06,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEE, ALEXANDRE
LIU, YAN
YU, SHIPENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66949716
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network estimation
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to systems and methods for searching names using name clusters. A method includes training a supervised machine learning system to learn a connection strength between a member and peers of the member; clustering the member with the peers in response to a threshold number of profile similarities between the member and the peers and the connection strength between the member and the peers being above a connection strength threshold value; and applying an unsupervised machine learning system using output from the supervised machine learning system and the clustering to generate a connection between the member and at least one of the peers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable mediums storing instructions that are executed by the one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: training a supervised machine learning system based on a set of labeled training data, yielding a trained supervised machine learning system, the set of labeled training data including profile data for a first set of member profiles of an online social networking service and labels indicating connection strengths among the member profiles included in the first set of member profiles, the trained supervised machine learning system outputting a connection strength value indicating an estimated strength of connection between two member profiles provided as input to the trained supervised machine learning system; providing member profile data for a second set of member profiles of the online social networking service as input into the trained supervised machine learning system, yielding a set of connection strength values for the second set of member profiles, the second set of member profiles including member profiles employed by a common entity, the set of connection strength values indicating estimated strengths of connection between a first member profile from the second set of member profiles and the other member profiles from the second set of member profiles; clustering the first member profile with a first subset of the other member profiles in response to determining that a threshold number of profile similarities exist between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles, and that the connection strength values between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles exceeds a connection strength threshold value; applying an unsupervised machine learning system using the set of connection strength values and the clustering to generate a connection between the first member profile and at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles; and connecting, at the online social networking service, the first member profile with the at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles in an organizational structure representing a first division of the common entity.
2. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: indicating the connection to a second member of the online social networking service in response to the second member requesting to contact the common entity, the second member not being employed by the common entity.
3. The system of claim 2, the operations further comprising: identifying the at least one member profile from the subset of the other member profiles as a sales contact for the common entity.
4. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: validating the connection by verifying existence of the connection in an official organizational chart for the common entity.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the profile similarities are viewing a member profile, title similarities, profile similarity scores, seniority difference, decision-maker score, connection co-invites, and interaction similarities with the online social networking service.
6. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: providing an electronic user interface allowing the first member profile to provide other connection recommendations for the organizational structure.
7. The system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: providing an electronic user interface requesting that the first member profile identify a relationship to one of the member profiles from the first subset of other member profiles, wherein the connection is further based on an explicit indication from the first member profile.
8. A method comprising: training a supervised machine learning system based on a set of labeled training data, yielding a trained supervised machine learning system, the set of labeled training data including profile data for a first set of member profiles of an online social networking service and labels indicating connection strengths among the member profiles included in the first set of member profiles, the trained supervised machine learning system outputting a connection strength value indicating an estimated strength of connection between two member profiles provided as input to the trained supervised machine learning system; providing member profile data for a second set of member profiles of the online social networking service as input into the trained supervised machine learning system, yielding a set of connection strength values for the second set of member profiles, the second set of member profiles including member profiles employed by a common entity, the set of connection strength values indicating estimated strengths of connection between a first member profile from the second set of member profiles and the other member profiles from the second set of member profiles; clustering the first member profile with a first subset of the other member profiles in response to determining that a threshold number of profile similarities exist between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles, and that the connection strength values between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles exceeds a connection strength threshold value; applying an unsupervised machine learning system using the set of connection strength values and the clustering to generate a connection between the first member profile and at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles; and connecting, at the online social networking service, the first member profile with the at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles in an organizational structure representing a first division of the common entity.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: indicating the connection to a second member of the online social networking service in response to the second member requesting to contact the common entity, the second member not being employed by the common entity.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: identifying the at least one member profile from the subset of the other member profiles as a sales contact for the common entity.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising: validating the connection by verifying existence of the connection in an official organizational chart for the common entity.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the profile similarities are viewing a member profile, title similarities, profile similarity scores, seniority difference, decision-maker score, connection co-invites, and interaction similarities with the online social networking service.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: providing an electronic user interface allowing the first member profile to provide other connection recommendations for the organizational structure.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: providing an electronic user interface requesting that the first member profile identify a relationship to one of the member profiles from the first subset of other member profiles, wherein the connection is further based on an explicit indication from the first member profile.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that are executed by one or more computer processors to perform operations comprising: training a supervised machine learning system based on a set of labeled training data, yielding a trained supervised machine learning system, the set of labeled training data including profile data for a first set of member profiles of an online social networking service and labels indicating connection strengths among the member profiles included in the first set of member profiles, the trained supervised machine learning system outputting a connection strength value indicating an estimated strength of connection between two member profiles provided as input to the trained supervised machine learning system; providing member profile data for a second set of member profiles of the online social networking service as input into the trained supervised machine learning system, yielding a set of connection strength values for the second set of member profiles, the second set of member profiles including member profiles employed by a common entity, the set of connection strength values indicating estimated strengths of connection between a first member profile from the second set of member profiles and the other member profiles from the second set of member profiles; clustering the first member profile with a first subset of the other member profiles in response to determining that a threshold number of profile similarities exist between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles, and that the connection strength values between the first member profile and the first subset of the other member profiles exceeds a connection strength threshold value; applying an unsupervised machine learning system using the set of connection strength values and the clustering to generate a connection between the first member profile and at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles; and connecting, at the online social networking service, the first member profile with the at least one member profile from the first subset of the other member profiles in an organizational structure representing a first division of the common entity.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: indicating the connection to a second member of the online social networking service in response to the second member requesting to contact the common entity, the second member not being employed by the common entity.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, the operations further comprising: identifying the at least one member profile from the subset of the other member profiles as a sales contact for the common entity.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: validating the connection by verifying existence of the connection in an official organizational chart for the common entity.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the profile similarities are viewing a member profile, title similarities, profile similarity scores, seniority difference, decision-maker score, connection co-invites, and interaction similarities with the online social networking service.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, the operations further comprising: providing an electronic user interface allowing the first member profile to provide other connection recommendations for the organizational structure.
</claims>
</document>
