<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G03F7/20,G06F17/50,G06F30/398,G06F7/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ASML NETHERLANDS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE VOCHT, JOSEPH WERNER
DU, YUELIN
CHEN, FRANK GANG
LI, WANYU
LU, YEN-WEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54072803
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Process window identifier
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a computer-implemented method for determining an overlapping process window (OPW) of an area of interest on a portion of a design layout for a device manufacturing process for imaging the portion onto a substrate, the method including: obtaining a plurality of features in the area of interest; obtaining a plurality of values of one or more processing parameters of the device manufacturing process; determining existence of defects, probability of the existence of defects, or both in imaging the plurality of features by the device manufacturing process under each of the plurality of values; and determining the OPW of the area of interest from the existence of defects, the probability of the existence of defects, or both.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer program product comprising a computer-readable medium having instructions therein, the instructions, upon execution by a computer system, configured to cause the computer system to at least: obtain an overlapping process window (OPW) map defining a spatial distribution of information regarding OPWs distributed across a patterning, device design layout to be processed using a device manufacturing process onto a substrate; and produce electronic data using the OPW map for configuring an aspect of the device manufacturing process.
2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions configured to obtain the overlapping process window (OPW) map are further configured to cause the computer system to determine an OPW of each of a plurality of areas of interest of the patterning device layout based on a predicted production on the substrate of structures corresponding to features of each area of interest by the device manufacturing process under a plurality of values of one or more processing parameters of the device manufacturing process.
3. The computer program product of claim 2, wherein one or more of the one or more processing parameters are selected from a group consisting of: focus, dose, a characteristic of an illumination source, a characteristic of projection optics, a characteristic of a resist, data obtained from metrology, data from an operator of a processing apparatus used in, the device manufacturing process, a characteristic of development of the resist, a characteristic of post-exposure baking of the resist, and a characteristic of etching.
4. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine a global process window of at least a portion of the design layout from at least some of the OPWs.
5. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine individual process windows (IPWs) corresponding to at least one of the OPWs.
6. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine the at least one OPW by overlapping the IPWs.
7. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to select a point in at least one of the OPWs, wherein the device manufacturing process is conducted under values of processing parameters represented by this point.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the point is farthest from any boundary of the at least one OPW.
9. The computer program product of claim 2, wherein each area of interest comprises a processing window limiting pattern (PWLP).
10. A non-transitory computer program product comprising a computer-readable medium having instructions therein, the instructions, upon execution by a computer system, configured to cause the computer system to at least: obtain a plurality of features in each area of interest of a plurality of areas of interest across a patterning device design layout to be processed using a device manufacturing process onto a substrate; obtain a plurality of values of one or more processing parameters of the device manufacturing process; determine an OPW of each of the areas of interest including the respective plurality of features based on a predicted production on the substrate of structures corresponding to the respective plurality of features of each area of interest by the device manufacturing process under each of the plurality of values; and determine an overlapping process window (OPW) map defining a spatial distribution of the determined OPWs across the patterning device design layout, wherein the OPW map is for configuring an aspect of the device manufacturing process.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions configured to determine the OPW of each of the areas of interest are further configured to cause the computer system to determine an existence of a defect, a probability of the existence of a defect, or both, in producing on the substrate the structures corresponding to the respective plurality of features of each area of interest by the device manufacturing process under each of the plurality of values.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein the existence of a defect, the probability of the existence of a defect, or both, is determined from individual process windows (IPWs) of the plurality of features.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein one or more of the one or more processing parameters are selected from a group consisting of: focus, dose, a characteristic of an illumination source, a characteristic of projection optics, a characteristic of a resist, data obtained from metrology, data from an operator of a processing apparatus used in the device manufacturing process, a characteristic of development of the resist, a characteristic of post-exposure baking of the resist, and a characteristic of etching.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine a global process window of at least a portion of the design layout from at least some of the OPWs.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine individual process windows (IPWs) corresponding to at least one of the OPWs.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the instructions are further configured to cause the computer system to determine the at least one OPW by overlapping the IPWs.
17. A method comprising: obtaining, by a hardware computer system, an overlapping process window (OPW) map defining a spatial distribution of information regarding OPWs distributed across a patterning device design layout to be processed using a device manufacturing process onto a substrate; and producing, by the hardware computer system, electronic data using the OPW map for configuring an aspect of the device manufacturing process.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising determining a global process window of at least a portion of the design layout from at least some of the OPWs.
19. A method comprising: obtaining a plurality of features in each area of interest of a plurality of areas of interest across a patterning device design layout to be processed using a device manufacturing process onto a substrate; obtaining a plurality of values of one or more processing parameters of the device manufacturing process; determining, by a hardware computer system, an OPW of each of the areas of interest including the respective plurality of features based on a predicted production of structures corresponding to the respective plurality of features of each area of interest by the device manufacturing process under each of the plurality of values on the substrate; and determining an overlapping process window (OPW) map defining a spatial distribution of the determined OPWs across the patterning device design layout, wherein the OPW map is for configuring an aspect of the device manufacturing process.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the OPW of each of the areas of interest further comprises determining an existence of a defect, a probability of the existence of a defect, or both, in producing the structures corresponding to the respective plurality of features of each area of interest by the device manufacturing process under each of the plurality of values on the substrate.
</claims>
</document>
