<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/32,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06T7/73,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SALAKHUTDINOV, RUSLAN
PARISOTTO, EMILIO
Chaplot, Devendra Singh
Zhang, Jian
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and device for improved localization and mapping
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with some embodiments, a method is performed at a device with one or more processors and non-transitory memory. The method includes obtaining location vector data characterizing an object. The method includes determining a neural pose graph associated with a respective time-period based on an initial local pose estimation as a function of respective location vector data. The method includes determining a meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period by aggregating the neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods. The method includes synthesizing a corrected pose estimation by correcting the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period based on a function of the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods in order to correct accumulated errors in the initial local pose estimation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a device with one or more processors and non-transitory memory: obtaining location vector data characterizing an object; determining a neural pose graph associated with a respective time-period based on an initial local pose estimation as a function of respective location vector data; determining a meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period by aggregating the neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and synthesizing a corrected pose estimation by correcting the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period based on a function of the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods in order to correct accumulated errors in the initial local pose estimation.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising, determining a local pose estimation associated with the respective time-period based on location vector data for the respective time-period and local pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the location vector data corresponds to intrinsic information associated with the device and extrinsic information characterizing at least one of environmental conditions or feedback.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein correcting the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period corresponds to performing: a soft attention operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and a sequence encoder operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the soft attention operation corresponds to a dot product function performed on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the soft attention operation corresponds to cosine similarity function performed on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the sequence encoder operation corresponds to a bidirectional long short-term memory (BLSTM) function performed on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
8. The method of claim 4, wherein the sequence encoder operation corresponds to convolutional network function performed on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
9. The method of claim 1 further comprising, mapping the environment based on a collection of corrected pose estimations for the respective time-period and one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising, relocalizing the object based on a collection of corrected pose estimations for the respective time-period and one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
11. A device comprising: a locomotive system arranged to move the device; a control system coupled to the locomotive system provided to control the locomotive system in order to manage at least the velocity, acceleration or direction of the device; and a navigation controller coupled to the locomotive system and the control system, wherein the navigation controller is provided to orchestrate the locomotive system by way of the control system in order to move the device, and wherein the navigation controller is provided to: synthesize a corrected pose estimation associated with a respective time-period by correcting a meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period based on a function of meta pose estimations associated with one or more other temporally adjacent time-periods in order to correct accumulated errors in an initial local pose estimation associated with the respective time-period, wherein the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time is a function of a neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and instruct the control system to adjust at least one of the velocity, acceleration, or direction of the device based on the corrected local pose estimation.
12. The device of claim 11 further comprising, a plurality of sensors provided to obtain intrinsic information associated with the device and extrinsic information characterizing at least one of environmental conditions or feedback.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the navigation controller is provided to: obtain location vector data from one or more sensors characterizing the device at a plurality of time-periods; determine a neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period based on the initial local pose estimation as a function of the location vector data; and determine the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period by aggregating the neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein correcting the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period corresponds to performing: a soft attention operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and a sequence encoder operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein the navigation controller is provided to map the environment based on a collection of corrected pose estimations for the respective time-period and one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the navigation controller is provided to relocalize the device based on a collection of corrected pose estimations for the respective time-period and one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
17. A device comprising: one or more displays provided to present augmented reality/virtual reality (AR/VR) content; an AR/VR content engine coupled to the one or more displays, the AR/VR content engine to render AR/VR content for presentation by the one or more displays; and a localization and mapping controller coupled to the one or more image sensors and the AR/VR content engine, wherein the localization and mapping controller is provided to: synthesize a corrected pose estimation associated with a respective time-period by correcting a meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period based on a function of meta pose estimations associated with one or more other temporally adjacent time-periods in order to correct accumulated errors in an initial local pose estimation associated with the respective time-period, wherein the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time is a function of a neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and instruct the AR/VR content engine to adjust the AR/VR content based on the corrected local pose estimation.
18. The device of claim 17 further comprising one or more image sensors provided to capture image data.
19. The device of claim 17, wherein localization and mapping controller is provided to: obtain location vector data based on the image data characterizing the device at a plurality of time-periods; determine a neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period based on the initial local pose estimation as a function of the location vector data; and determine the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period by aggregating the neural pose graph associated with the respective time-period and one or more other neural pose graphs associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
20. The device of claim 17, wherein correcting the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period corresponds to performing: a soft attention operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods; and a sequence encoder operation on the meta pose estimation associated with the respective time-period and meta pose estimations associated with one or more temporally adjacent time-periods.
</claims>
</document>
