<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,H04L12/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE MITRE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAVERKOS, ROBERT L.
KEPPLER, DAVID
MORRIS-KING, JAMES R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719192
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cyber-physical system evaluation
</title>

<abstract>
Described are methods, systems, and computer-program product embodiments for deriving a model of computation of a cyber-physical system (CPS). In some embodiments, a method includes receiving, from the CPS network, network-events data corresponding to a process performed by the CPS and including network events and associated group IDs. A plurality of events logs for a plurality of selections of group IDs are generated with each events log including a sequence of network events selected from the network events based on the selection of group IDs for that events log. A plurality of directed graphs for the plurality of events logs are generated with each directed graph generated based on the sequence of network events in the events log. A plurality of group IDs can be determined based on a directed graph selected from the plurality of directed graphs based on a complexity score calculated for each directed graph.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for deriving a model of computation of a cyber-physical system (CPS), comprising: receiving network-events data of a CPS network, wherein the network-events data corresponds to a process performed by the CPS and comprises a plurality of network events and associated group IDs; generating a plurality of events logs corresponding to a plurality of selections of two or more group IDs, wherein each events log comprises a sequence of network events selected from the plurality of network events based on the selection of two or more group IDs for the events log; generating a plurality of directed graphs corresponding to the plurality of events logs, wherein each directed graph is generated based on the sequence of network events in the events log; selecting a directed graph from the plurality of directed graphs based on a complexity score calculated for each directed graph; and determining that a plurality of group IDs corresponding to the selected directed graph is associated with the model of computation of the CPS to perform the process.
2. The method of claim 1, comprising: providing the directed graph to a user, wherein the directed graph corresponds to the model of computation implemented by the CPS to perform the process.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating a directed graph based on the sequence of network events in the events log comprises: generating a plurality of vertices in the directed graph, wherein the plurality of vertices correspond to the network events in the events log; and generating a plurality of directed edges in the directed graph based on the sequence of network events, wherein a directed edge between two vertices corresponds to two adjacent network events in the sequence of network events.
4. The method of claim 3, comprising: determining a frequency count for each directed edge of the plurality of directed edges based on the sequence of network events; selecting a subset of directed edges from the plurality of directed edges based on the frequency count for a directed edge falling below a frequency threshold; calculating an edge betweenness centrality for each directed edge from the subset of directed edges; and deleting a directed edge of the subset of directed edges from the directed graph upon determining that the edge betweenness centrality for the directed edge falls below a betweenness threshold.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein generating the directed graph based on the sequence of network events in the events log comprises: merging two or more vertices in the directed graph based on a parallel or a serial equivalence of the two or more vertices to generate a reduced directed graph for the events log.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the CPS network is configured to implement a control network protocol in which subsets of network traffic are associated with respective, different types of data, each of which can be identified by a group identifier (ID).
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of events logs corresponding to the plurality of unique selections of two or more group IDs comprises: identifying a plurality of unique group IDs from the network-events data; and selecting the two or more group IDs from the plurality of unique group IDs.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the network-traffic data comprises: detecting network messages transmitted on a communication bus of the CPS; and storing the network messages as the network-traffic data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the complexity score for a directed graph is calculated based on a plurality of graph metrics of the directed graph.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of graph metrics comprises a density, a reciprocity, a radius, or a diameter.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of graph metrics comprises a density, a reciprocity, a radius, and a diameter.
12. A system for deriving a model of computation of a cyber-physical system (CPS), comprising: one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to: receive network-events data of a CPS network, wherein the network-events data corresponds to a process performed by the CPS and comprises a plurality of network events and associated group IDs; generate a plurality of events logs corresponding to a plurality of unique selections of two or more group IDs, wherein each events log comprises a sequence of network events selected from the plurality of network events based on the unique selection of two or more group IDs for the events log; generate a plurality of directed graphs corresponding to the plurality of events logs, wherein each directed graph is generated based on the sequence of network events in the events log; select a directed graph from the plurality of directed graphs based on a complexity score calculated for each directed graph; and determine that a plurality of group IDs corresponding to the selected directed graph is associated with the model of computation of the CPS to perform the process.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the one or more processors are caused to: provide the directed graph to a user, wherein the directed graph corresponds to the model of computation implemented by the CPS to perform the process.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein to generate a directed graph based on the sequence of network events in the events log, the one or more processors are caused to: generate a plurality of vertices in the directed graph, wherein the plurality of vertices correspond to the network events in the events log; and generate a plurality of directed edges in the directed graph based on the sequence of network events, wherein a directed edge between two vertices represents two adjacent network events in the sequence of network events.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more processors are caused to: determine a frequency count for each directed edge of the plurality of directed edges based on the sequence of network events; select a subset of directed edges from the plurality of directed edges based on the frequency count for a directed edge falling below a frequency threshold; calculate an edge betweenness centrality for each directed edge from the subset of directed edges; and delete a directed edge of the subset of directed edges from the directed graph upon determining that the edge betweenness centrality for the directed edge falls below a betweenness threshold.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein to generate the directed graph based on the sequence of network events in the events log, the one or more processors are caused to: merge two or more vertices in the directed graph based on a parallel or a serial equivalence of the two or more vertices to generate a reduced directed graph for the events log.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the CPS network is configured to implement a control network protocol in which subsets of network traffic are associated with respective, different types of data, each of which can be identified by a group identifier (ID).
18. The system of claim 12, wherein to generate the plurality of events logs corresponding to the plurality of unique selections of two or more group IDs, the one or more processors are caused to: identify a plurality of unique group IDs from the network-events data; and select the two or more group IDs from the plurality of unique group IDs.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein to receive the network-traffic data, the one or more processors are caused to: detect network messages transmitted on a communication bus of the CPS; and store the network messages as the network-traffic data.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the complexity score for a directed graph is calculated based on a plurality of graph metrics of the directed graph.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the plurality of graph metrics comprises a density, a reciprocity, a radius, or a diameter.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the plurality of graph metrics comprises a density, a reciprocity, a radius, and a diameter.
23. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions for deriving a model of computation of a cyber-physical system (CPS), wherein the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform instructions comprising: receiving network-events data of a CPS network, wherein the network-events data corresponds to a process performed by the CPS and comprises a plurality of network events and associated group IDs; generating a plurality of events logs corresponding to a plurality of unique selections of two or more group IDs, wherein each events log comprises a sequence of network events selected from the plurality of network events based on the unique selection of two or more group IDs for the events log; generating a plurality of directed graphs corresponding to the plurality of events logs, wherein each directed graph is generated based on the sequence of network events in the events log; selecting a directed graph from the plurality of directed graphs based on a complexity score calculated for each directed graph; and determining that a plurality of group IDs corresponding to the selected directed graph is associated with the model of computation of the CPS to perform the process.
</claims>
</document>
