<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N5/04,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HAMILTON, II, RICK A.
BENDER, MICHAEL
BOSS, GREGORY J.
FOX, JEREMY R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63670972
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cognitive recommendation engine to selectively identify using data analytics complementary product(s)
</title>

<abstract>
A process is provided for identifying by a cognitive recommendation engine one or more complementary products. The process includes obtaining an indication that an individual has selected a product, and based on obtaining the indication, performing by the cognitive recommendation engine analytics on prior products-related data for the individual to produce a complementary items list of one or more complementary items to the product that are personal to the individual. Further, the processing includes identifying, by the cognitive recommendation engine, one or more commercially available complementary products corresponding to one or more items within the complementary items list, and providing identifying information for at least one commercially available product of the one or more commercially available products to the individual.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of identifying one or more complementary products, the computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining an indication that an individual has selected a product; based on obtaining the indication that the individual has selected the product, performing, by an artificial-intelligence-based, cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on prior products-related data personal to the individual to produce a complementary items list of complementary items to the product personal to the individual; ranking, by the cognitive recommendation engine using machine learning, the complementary items of the complementary items list based on the prior products-related data personal to the individual, to produce a ranked complementary items list; identifying, by the cognitive recommendation engine, one or more commercially available complementary products corresponding to one or more items within the ranked complementary items list; and providing in a prioritized order based on ordering of items in the ranked complementary items list, identifying information for the one or more commercially available complementary products to the individual.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the performing, by the cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on the prior products-related data personal to the individual comprises analyzing prior products-related data within one or more databases to produce the complementary items list, the one or more databases comprising one or more databases comprising the individual's social media, images of the individual, comments or reviews of the individual, prior product selections of the individual, or other historical, product-related information for the individual.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the product comprises a clothing product, and the one or more complementary items in the complementary items list comprise complementary items to the selected clothing product preferred by the individual.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the individual selects the product by one or more of taking a picture of the product, removing the product from a shelf or rack and holding the product, or scanning a code associated with the product.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining via one or more sensors an indication that the individual is at a consumer venue, the product being selected at the consumer venue, and wherein providing the identifying information comprises providing the identifying information to a mobile device of the individual.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising identifying a location of the consumer venue, and identifying one or more other consumer venues within a specified distance of the location, and wherein providing identifying information further comprises providing identifying information for the at least one commercially available product, including for each commercially available product of the at least one commercially available product an identification of at least one of the consumer venue or other consumer venue(s) offering the commercially available product(s).
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the identifying further comprises identifying by the cognitive recommendation engine commercially available products by accessing one or more company databases for available product inventory at the location or within the specified distance of the location.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the identifying identifies multiple commercially available products corresponding to one or more items within the complementary items list, and the method further comprises filtering by the cognitive recommendation engine available products of the multiple commercially available products based on one or more of the individual's prior product selections, the individual's consumer venue preferences or price in comparison to price of the product selected.
9. A system for identifying one or more complementary products, the system comprising: a memory; and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, wherein the system performs a method comprising: obtaining an indication that an individual has selected a product; based on obtaining the indication that the individual has selected the product, performing, by an artificial-intelligence-based, cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on prior products-related data personal to the individual to produce a complementary items list of complementary items to the product personal to the individual; ranking, by the cognitive recommendation engine using machine learning, the complementary items of the complementary items list based on the prior products-related data personal to the individual, to produce a ranked complementary items list; identifying, by the cognitive recommendation engine, one or more commercially available complementary products corresponding to one or more items within the ranked complementary items list; and providing in a prioritized order based on ordering of items in the ranked complementary items list, identifying information for the one or more commercially available complementary products to the individual.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the performing, by the cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on the prior products-related data personal to the individual comprises analyzing prior products-related data within one or more databases to produce the complementary items list, the one or more databases comprising one or more databases comprising the individual's social media, images of the individual, comments or product reviews of the individual, prior product selections of the individual, or other historical, product-related information for the individual.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the product comprises a clothing product, and the one or more complementary items in the complementary items list comprise complementary items to the selected clothing product preferred by the individual.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the individual selects the product by one or more of taking a picture of the product, removing the product from a shelf or rack and holding the product, or scanning a code associated with the product.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the obtaining comprises obtaining via one or more sensors an indication that the individual is at a consumer venue, the product being selected at the consumer venue, and wherein providing the identifying information comprises providing the identifying information to a mobile device of the individual.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising identifying a location of the consumer venue, and identifying one or more other consumer venues within a specified distance of the location, and wherein providing identifying information further comprises providing identifying information for the at least one commercially available product, including for each commercially available product of the at least one commercially available product an identification of at least one of the consumer venue or other consumer venue(s) offering the commercially available product(s).
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the identifying further comprises identifying by the cognitive recommendation engine commercially available products by accessing one or more company databases for available product inventory at the location or within the specified distance of the location.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the identifying identifies multiple commercially available products corresponding to one or more items within the complementary items list, and the method further comprises filtering by the cognitive recommendation engine available products of the multiple commercially available products based, on one or more of the individual's prior product selections, the individual's consumer venue preferences or price in comparison to price of the product selected.
17. A computer program product for identifying one or more complementary products, the computer program product comprising: at least one computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith, the computer readable program code being executable by at least one processor to perform a method comprising: obtaining an indication that an individual has selected a product; based on obtaining the indication that the individual has selected the product, performing, by an artificial-intelligence-based, cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on prior products-related data personal to the individual to produce a complementary items list of complementary items to the product personal to the individual; ranking, by the cognitive recommendation engine using machine learning, the complementary items of the complementary items list based on the prior products-related data personal to the individual, to produce a ranked complementary items list; identifying, by the cognitive recommendation engine, one or more commercially available complementary products corresponding to one or more items within the ranked complementary items list; and providing in a prioritized order based on ordering of items in the ranked complementary items list, identifying information for the one or more commercially available complementary products to the individual.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the performing, by the cognitive recommendation engine, analytics on the prior products-related data personal to the individual comprises analyzing prior products-related data within one or more databases to produce the complementary items list, the one or more databases comprising one or more databases comprising the individual's social media, images of the individual, comments or reviews of the individual, prior product selections of the individual, or other historical, product-related information for the individual.
19. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the product comprises a clothing product, and the one or more complementary items in the complementary items list comprise complementary items to the selected clothing product preferred by the individual.
20. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein the individual selects the product by one or more of taking a picture of the product, removing the product from a shelf or rack and holding the product, or scanning a code associated with the product.
</claims>
</document>
