<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNOWFLAKE
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAGEVILLE, BENOIT
LANGSETH, JUSTIN
KLEINERMAN, CHRISTIAN
KRISHNAN, PRASANNA
CHU, PUI KEI JOHNSTON
Glickman, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing membership in a private data exchange
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for managing membership in a private data exchange are provided herein. In one embodiment, the method comprises adding a new member to a data exchange, wherein the data exchange comprises a set of listings, each listing comprising data from one or more datasets stored on a cloud computing service. An account type is assigned to the new member, the account type comprising at least one of a consumer type, provider type, or exchange administrator type. Each of the account types associated with one or more rights with respect to the set of listings, such that the new member has a set of rights based on the account type. The set of rights of the new member are then modified with respect to one or more listings from the set of listings based on a set of visibility and access rules for each of the set of listings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: adding a new member to a data exchange, wherein the data exchange comprises a set of listings stored on one or more virtual warehouses, each listing comprising data from one or more datasets stored on a cloud computing service and the set of listing made available to members of the data exchange via the one or more virtual warehouses; assigning an account type to the new member, the account type comprising at least one of a consumer type, provider type, or exchange administrator type, wherein each of the consumer type, the provider type, and the exchange administrator type is associated with one or more rights with respect to the set of listings, such that the new member has a set of rights based on the account type; and modifying, by a processing device, the set of rights of the new member with respect to a listing from the set of listings based on a set of visibility and access rules for the listing, wherein the new member queries a reference database having a portion of the data of the listing that is filtered based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein adding the new member comprises transmitting an invitation to join the data exchange to an email address of a user of the cloud computing service.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein adding the new member comprises transmitting an invitation to join the data exchange to a cloud computing service account of a user of the cloud computing service.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the account type comprises the consumer type, the one or more rights associated with the consumer type comprising rights to: view each listing in the set of listings, view the data of each listing in the set of listings, and access the data of each listing in the set of listings.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of visibility and access rules for the listing comprises rules for: filtering members who can view the listing, filtering members who can view data of the listing, filtering members who can manipulate the data of the listing, and filtering the data of the listing that particular members can access.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein modifying the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listing comprises: restricting the new member from viewing the listing based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein modifying the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listing further comprises: determining portions of the data of the listing the new member can access based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing; and granting the new member access to the determined portions while restricting the new member from access to remaining portions of the data of the listing by including the portions of the data of the listing the new member can access in the reference database.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein granting the new member access to the determined portions further comprises: adding a reference to the database to the account of the new member.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein the account type further comprises the provider type, the one or more rights associated with the provider type comprising: creating listings, testing sample queries on data of each of the set of listings, setting access policies for each of the set of listing, granting requests to access each of the set of listings, and tracking usage of each of the set of listings and usage of data of each of the set of listings.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: removing an existing member from the data exchange; and unpublishing each listing of the set of listings created by the existing member from the data exchange.
11. A system comprising: a memory; and A processing device, operatively coupled to the memory, the processing device to: add a new member to a data exchange, wherein the data exchange comprises a set of listings stored on one or more virtual warehouses, each listing comprising data from one or more datasets stored on a cloud computing service and the set of listings made available to members of the data exchange via the one or more virtual warehouses; assign an account type to the new member, the account type comprising at least one of a consumer type, provider type, or exchange administrator type, wherein each of the consumer type, the provider type, and the exchange administrator type is associated with one or more rights with respect to the set of listings, such that the new member has a set of rights based on the account type; and modify the set of rights of the new member with respect to a listing from the set of listings based on a set of visibility and access rules for the listing, wherein the new member queries a reference database having a portion of the data of the listing that is filtered based on the set of visibility and access rules of the listing.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein to add the new member, the processing device is to transmit an invitation to join the data exchange to an email address of a user of the cloud computing service.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein to add the new member, the processing device is to transmit an invitation to join the data exchange to a cloud computing service account of a user of the cloud computing service.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the account type comprises the consumer type, the one or more rights associated with the consumer type comprising rights to: view each listing in the set of listings, view the data of each listing in the set of listings, and access the data of each listing in the set of listings.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the set of visibility and access rules for the listing comprises rules for: filtering members who can view the listing, filtering members who can view data of the listing, filtering members who can manipulate the data of the listing, and filtering the data of the listing that particular members can access.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein to modify the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listing, the processing device is to: restrict the new member from viewing the listing based on the set of visibility and access rules for listing.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein to modify the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listing, the processing device is further to: determine portions of the data of the listing the new member can access based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing; and grant the new member access to the determined portions while restricting the new member from access to remaining portions of the data of the listing by including the portions of the data of the listing the new member can access in the reference database.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein to grant the new member access to the determined portions, the processing device is further to: add a reference to the database to the account of the new member.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the account type further comprises the provider type, the one or more rights associated with the provider type comprising: creating listings, testing sample queries on data of each of the set of listings, setting access policies for each of the set of listings, granting requests to access each of the set of listings, and tracking usage of each of the set of listings and usage of data of each of the set of listings.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium, having instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processing device, cause the processing device to: add a new member to a data exchange, wherein the data exchange comprises a set of listings stored on one or more virtual warehouses, each listing comprising data from one or more datasets stored on a cloud computing service and the set of listings made available to members of the data exchange via the one or more virtual warehouses; assign an account type to the new member, the account type comprising at least one of a consumer type, provider type, or exchange administrator type, wherein each of the consumer type, the provider type, and the exchange administrator type is associated with one or more rights with respect to the set of listings, such that the new member has a set of rights based on the account type; and modify, by the processing device, the set of rights of the new member with respect to a listing from the set of listings based on a set of visibility and access rules for the listing, wherein the new member queries a reference database having a portion of the data of the listing that is filtered based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein to add the new member, the processing device is to transmit an invitation to join the data exchange to an email address of a user of the cloud computing service.
22. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein to add the new member, the processing device is to transmit an invitation to join the data exchange to a cloud computing service account of a user of the cloud computing service.
23. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the account type comprises the consumer type, the one or more rights associated with the consumer type comprising rights to: view each listing in the set of listings, view the data of each listing in the set of listings, and access the data of each listing in the set of listings.
24. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 20, wherein the set of visibility and access rules for the listing comprises rules for: filtering members who can view the listing, filtering members who can view data of the listing, filtering members who can manipulate the data of the listing, and filtering the data of the listing that particular members can access.
25. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 24, wherein to modify the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listings, the processing device is to: restrict the new member from viewing the listing based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing.
26. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 25, wherein to modify the set of rights of the new member with respect to the listing, the processing device is further to: determine portions of the data of the listing the new member can access based on the set of visibility and access rules for the listing; and grant the new member access to the determined portions while restricting the new member from access to remaining portions of the data of the listing by including the portions of the data of the listing the new member can access in the reference database.
27. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 26, wherein to grant the new member access to the determined portions, the processing device is further to: add a reference to the database to the account of the new member.
28. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 23, wherein the account type further comprises the provider type, the one or more rights associated with the provider type comprising: creating listings, testing sample queries on data of each of the set of listings, setting access policies for each of the set of listings, granting requests to access each of the set of listings, and tracking usage of each of the set of listings and usage of data of each of the set of listings.
</claims>
</document>
