<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/14,G01S13/86,G01S13/931,G01S17/93,G01S17/931,G06K9/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYFT
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABARI, FARZAD CYRUS FOROUGHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71124163
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for estimating vehicle speed based on radar
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can receive a frame of data generated by a radar system on a vehicle that is associated with an environment at a particular time as detected by the radar system. The frame of data can comprise a plurality of angular positions. Data points included within the frame of data that correspond to the plurality of angular positions can be determined. A fit of a curve having a trigonometric function can be determined to the data points. A speed estimate for the vehicle can be generated based at least in part on the fit of the curve to the data points.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method performed by a computing system, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving a frame of data generated by a radar system on a vehicle that is associated with an environment at a particular time as detected by the radar system, the frame of data comprising a plurality of angular positions; determining data points included within the frame of data that correspond to the plurality of angular positions; determining a fit of a curve having a trigonometric function to the data points; and generating a speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the fit of the curve to the data points.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data points included within the frame of data further correspond to a plurality of measured velocities, the measured velocities comprising a measured velocity at each angular position of the plurality of angular positions.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the determining the fit of the curve to the data points comprises fitting a cosine curve to the plurality of angular positions and the plurality of measured velocities.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: identifying, before the determining the fit of the curve, one or more data points in the frame of data that are associated with one or more moving objects; removing, before the determining the fit of the curve, the one or more data points associated with the one or more moving objects from the frame of data.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the removing the one or more data points associated with the one or more moving objects from the frame of data comprises removing all data points associated with the one or more moving objects from the frame of data to generate a filtered frame of data, wherein the fit of the curve is determined to data points in the filtered frame of data.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein an error metric indicative of a quality of the fit is calculated for the fit of the curve.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the determining the fit of the curve to the data points comprises fitting a cosine curve to the plurality of angular positions and the plurality of measured velocities after the one or more data points associated with the one or more moving objects are removed from the frame of data.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving a second frame of data generated by a second radar system on the vehicle, the second frame of data comprising a second plurality of angular positions; determining second data points included within the second frame of data that correspond to the second plurality of angular positions; determining a second fit of a second curve having a trigonometric function to the second data points; generating a first vehicle speed estimate based at least in part on the fit of the curve to the data points; and generating a second vehicle speed estimate based at least in part on the second fit of the second curve to the second data points, wherein the generating the speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the fit of the curve comprises generating the speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the first vehicle speed estimate and the second vehicle speed estimate.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the first vehicle speed estimate is associated with a first weight, the second vehicle speed estimate is associated with a second weight, and the generating the speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the fit of the curve comprises generating the speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the first vehicle speed estimate, the second vehicle speed estimate, the first weight, and the second weight.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the speed estimate with a wheel-rotation-based speed estimate for the vehicle generated by a wheel-rotation-based speedometer on the vehicle, and determining that the wheel-rotation-based speedometer requires maintenance based on the comparing the speed estimate with the wheel-rotation-based speed estimate.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: receiving a frame of data generated by a radar system on a vehicle that is associated with an environment at a particular time as detected by the radar system, the frame of data comprising a plurality of angular positions; determining data points included within the frame of data that correspond to the plurality of angular positions; determining a fit of a curve having a trigonometric function to the data points; and generating a speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the fit of the curve to the data points.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the data points included within the frame of data further correspond to a plurality of measured velocities, the measured velocities comprising a measured velocity at each angular position of the plurality of angular positions.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the determining the fit of the curve to the data points comprises fitting a cosine curve to the plurality of angular positions and the plurality of measured velocities.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to perform: identifying, before the determining the fit of the curve, one or more data points in the frame of data that are associated with one or more moving objects; removing, before the determining the fit of the curve, one or more the one or more data points associated with the one or more moving objects from the frame of data.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more an error metric indicative of a quality of the fit is calculated for the fit of the curve.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: receiving a frame of data generated by a radar system on a vehicle that is associated with an environment at a particular time as detected by the radar system, the frame of data comprising a plurality of angular positions; determining data points included within the frame of data that correspond to the plurality of angular positions; determining a fit of a curve having a trigonometric function to the data points; and generating a speed estimate for the vehicle based at least in part on the fit of the curve to the data points.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the data points included within the frame of data further correspond to a plurality of measured velocities, the measured velocities comprising a measured velocity at each angular position of the plurality of angular positions.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the determining the fit of the curve to the data points comprises fitting a cosine curve to the plurality of angular positions and the plurality of measured velocities.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions, when executed by the at least one processor of a computing system, further cause the computing system to perform: identifying, before the determining the fit of the curve, one or more data points in the frame of data that are associated with one or more moving objects; removing, before the determining the fit of the curve, the one or more measured velocities associated with the one or more moving objects from the frame of data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein an error metric indicative of a quality of the fit is calculated for the fit of the curve.
</claims>
</document>
