<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/355,A63F13/497,A63F13/533,A63F13/5375,A63F13/63,A63F13/67,A63F13/79
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
STROUD, MICAH S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63671591
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Personalized user interface based on in-application behavior
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems to provide a user interface to access games available for a user account. Selection of a game for game play is detected at the user interface and, in response, a game play is initiated. Interactions provided by a user during game play are used to affect an outcome of the game. The interactions are analyzed to determine game behavior of the user. Behavior metrics are generated for different portions of the game, based on the user's game behavior. The behavior metrics for the user for the game are associated with a game icon of the game provided on the user interface, the association causes specific ones of the behavior metrics to be rendered for the different portions of the game during subsequent game play and are provided to help the user to improve the user's game play for the different portions of the game.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: providing a user interface for a user account, the user interface used to access games available on a cloud game server; detecting selection of a game presented on the user interface, the game selected for game play; receiving interactions for the game from a user during game play, the interactions applied to affect an outcome of the game; analyzing the interactions provided by the user to determine game play behavior of the user; generating behavior metrics for the user based on the game play behavior of the user, the behavior metrics being different for different portions of the game based on the game play behavior of the user in respective portions of the game, the behavior metrics used to generate a game play model for the user and use the game play model to identify deviation in the game play behavior of the user in each of the different portions of the game that prevented the user from advancing in the respective portion and to identify game play hints for advancing in each of the different portions of the game, wherein the game play model is generated using machine learning logic; associating the game play hints for the user with a game interface of the game so as to render selection options for accessing the game play hints to advance in the game, wherein operations of the method are executed by a processor of the cloud game server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the game play model is updated using the game play behavior of a plurality of other users that have played the different portions of the game.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining deviation in the game play behavior further includes, comparing interactions of the user for each portion of the game, using details from the game play model, with game inputs of one or more of the plurality of other users for the respective portion of the game to identify deviation in the game behavior, wherein the deviation resulting in the user not able to advance in the respective portion of the game.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the game play model is updated with current game play of the game of the user and used during subsequent game play of the game, and wherein the subsequent game play is a restart of the current game play after a pause operation or start of a new game session.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein operations of analyzing and generating are performed during game play of the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting the selection of the game includes updating game play hints for the user on the user interface and rendering an image clip of a game state of a prior game play of the user at the user interface.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the game play hints are provided in an audio format or a video format or a textual format or a graphical user interface format, or any two or more combinations thereof.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating behavior metrics further includes, analyzing the game play behavior of the user from prior game play of the game to identify the deviation in the game play of the user; and based on the deviation, providing the game play hints for the user for the portion of the game using details from the game play model, wherein the game play hints to the user include game inputs for advancing in the portion of the game.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating behavior metrics further includes, updating the game play model for the game using the game behavior of a plurality of other users that played the game and the game behavior of the user from prior game play, the game play model used in computing behavior metrics of the user for different portions of the game by determining a deviation in the game behavior of the user for the different portions using details provided in the game play model.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein determining deviation in the game behavior for a portion further includes, analyzing interactions provided by the plurality of other users and the user for the portion of the game to identify deviation in the game behavior of the user, using details from the game play model, wherein the interactions of each of the plurality of other users resulted in the respective one of the plurality of other users advancing in the portion of the game, and the interactions of the user resulting in the user not able to advance in the portion of the game.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein identifying game play hints further includes, selecting game play of a specific other user of the plurality of other users that was used in generating the game play model, wherein game inputs provided by the specific other user resulted in successful completion of a portion of the game, the specific other user selected by matching at least a portion of a user profile of the specific other user with a corresponding portion of a user profile of the user; and providing game play hints for the portion of the game using the game inputs provided for the portion of the game by the specific other user, the game play hints provided are customized for the user based on the game play behavior of the user, wherein the game play hints are provided in a video format or a textual format or an audio format, or a combination of any two or all of the video, textual and audio formats.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the game play hints in video format includes providing a video clip for the portion of the game, the video clip extracted from a video recording of the game play of the specific other user.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein generating behavior metrics further includes, updating the game play model for the game using the game behavior of a plurality of other users that played the game and the game behavior of the user from prior game play; analyzing interactions provided by the plurality of other users and the user for a portion of the game to identify deviation in the game behavior of the user, the analyzing performed by comparing the interactions of the user with the interactions of the plurality of other users that achieved advancement in the portion of the game, using details from the game model; selecting game play of a specific other user of the plurality of other users, the specific other user selected by matching at least a portion of a user profile of the specific other user with a corresponding portion of a user profile of the user; and providing game play hints for the portion of the game using game inputs provided for the portion of the game by the specific other user, the game play hints provided are customized for the user based on the game behavior of the user.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the game selected for game play is a multi-player game played by a plurality of users, and wherein associating the game play hints causes the game play hints generated for each of the plurality of users to be rendered at the user interface of respective users.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the game selected for game play is a multi-player game played by a plurality of users, wherein the user interface for each of the plurality of users includes an option to restart the game play of the game.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the game play hints are presented in accordance to a presentation preference defined by the user, and wherein the user interface further includes an option to customize the game for game play, wherein the option to customize the game includes option to adjust speed of the game or a level of the game or a difficulty of the game.
17. A method, comprising: providing a user interface to access games available for a user account on a cloud game server; detecting selection of a game for current game play from the user interface of the user account; identifying interactions provided by a user in different portions of the game during the current game play; generating a model for the game using interactions provided in a prior game play of the game by the user, the model generated using machine learning logic; analyzing the interactions provided in the prior game play using the model to determine game play behavior of the user; identifying game play hints for the current game play of the user based on the game play behavior of the user in different portions of the game identified from the model, the game play hints based on deviation in the game play behavior of the user in the different portions, the model dynamically updated with the interactions of the user detected during current game play; associating the game play hints for the user with a game interface of the game so as to render selection options for accessing the game play hints to advance in the different portions of game during current game play, wherein operations of the method are executed by a processor.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein generating the model further includes, updating the model with interactions provided by a plurality of other users that played the game.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein identifying game play hints further includes, identifying deviation in the game play behavior of the user for a portion of the game using the details from the model, the deviation identified by comparing the interactions of the user provided for the portion with the interactions of the plurality of other users that achieved results for the portion of the game; selecting game play of a specific other user of the plurality of other users, the specific other user selected by matching skill level of the user with the skill level of the specific other user; and providing game play hints for the portion of the game using the game inputs provided for the portion of the game by the specific other user.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the model being updated upon completion of prior game play session of respective one of the plurality of other users.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the game play behavior of the current game play updated to the model upon detecting end of current game play or end of current game play session, the updated game play behavior of the user used in refining the game play hints for the user for the game during subsequent game play of the game.
22. The method of claim 17, wherein the model is dynamically updated with interactions provided by the user during current game play of the game, upon detecting the user exiting a game session of the current game play.
23. A server, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, the memory used to store an application having programming logic, which when executed by the processor provides game play hints for the application based on behavior metrics, the programming logic of the application is configured to: provide a user interface for a user account, wherein the user account is used to access applications available on the server; detect selection of an application presented on the user interface, the application selected for user interaction; receive user interactions for the application from a user during execution of the application, the user interactions applied to adjust an outcome of the application; analyze the user interactions provided by the user to determine interactive behavior of the user; generate behavior metrics for the user based on the interactive behavior of the user, the behavior metrics being different for different portions of the application based on the interactive behavior of the user in respective portions of the application, the behavior metrics used to generate an application model for the user, wherein the application model is used to identify deviation in the interactive behavior of the user in each of the different portions of the application that prevented the user from advancing in the respective portion and to identify application hints to advance in each of the different portions of the application, wherein the application model is generated using machine learning logic; associate the application hints for the user with an application interface for the application so as to render selection options for accessing the application hints to allow the user to achieve advancement for the different portions of the application.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the programming logic of the application is further configured to: update the application model for the application using the interactive behavior of the user from prior application usage; identify deviation in the interactive behavior of the user for a portion of the application using details from the application model for the respective portion of the application, wherein the deviation results in the user not achieving results specified for the portion of the application; and provide application hints for the portion of the application using details from the application model, the application hints provided to the user includes application inputs for advancing in the portion of the application.
25. The system of claim 23, wherein the programming logic of the application is further configured to: update the application model for the application using the interactive behavior of a plurality of other users that interacted with the application and the interactive behavior of the user from prior application usage; analyze interactions provided by the plurality of other users and the user for a portion of the application to identify deviation in the interactive behavior of the user for a portion of the application, the analyzing performed by comparing the user interactions of the user with the user interactions of the plurality of other users that achieved results for the portion of the application, using details from the application model; select application interactions of a specific other user of the plurality of other users, the specific other user selected by matching at least a portion of a user profile of the specific other user with a corresponding portion of a user profile of the user; and provide application hints for the portion of the application using inputs provided for the portion of the application by the specific other user, the application hints that are provided are customized for the user based on the interactive behavior of the user for the portion.
</claims>
</document>
