<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HCL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOUNDRARAJAN, RAHUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838764
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Node profiling based on performance management (PM) counters and configuration management (CM) parameters using machine learning techniques
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed is a system for profiling one or more nodes based on a hybrid Key Performance Indicator (KPI). Initially, a flag indicating an issue with a KPI is received. A set of Configuration Management (CM) may be changed or identified by SME. Deviation in magnitude of each CM parameters from a predefined CM magnitude is computed to determine a changed CM parameter with deviation magnitude higher than deviation magnitude of remaining CM parameters. A set of Performance Management (PM) counters is identified by comparing magnitude of each PM with a predefined threshold value or using machine learning or statistical techniques. A hybrid KPI is created based on combination of the changed CM parameters and a subset of PM counters. One or more nodes are profiled by comparing the hybrid KPI associated to the node with hybrid KPI corresponding to each of the one or more nodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for profiling one or more nodes based on a hybrid Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node in a communication network, the system comprises: a memory; a processor coupled to the memory, wherein the processor is configured to execute programmed instructions stored in the memory for: receiving a flag indicating an issue with a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node present in a network of nodes and user inputs comprising a set of Configuration Management (CM) parameters influencing the KPI; computing deviation in magnitude of each CM parameter, of the set of CM parameters, from a predefined CM magnitude to determine a changed CM parameter with deviation magnitude higher than deviation magnitude of remaining CM parameters of the set of CM parameters; identifying a set of Performance Management (PM) counters, influencing the KPI, by comparing magnitude of each PM counter, from the set of PM counters, with a predefined threshold value, wherein the magnitude indicates real-time performance of the PM counters; creating a hybrid KPI based on combination of the changed CM parameter and a subset of PM counters by using the machine learning or statistical techniques, wherein the subset of PM counters is associated to the changed CM parameter, and wherein the hybrid KPI indicates performance of the node; and profiling one or more nodes, present in the network of nodes, by comparing the hybrid KPI associated to the node with hybrid KPI corresponding to each of the one or more nodes.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprises receiving user inputs comprising changed CM parameters based on the flag; and updating the set of CM parameters based on the user inputs.
3. The system of claim 1 further comprises installing a patch at the node to resolve the flag, wherein the patch is installed based on the hybrid KPI.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of CM parameters comprise at least one of a transmit power of antenna, CPU utilization, Hysteresis threshold for handover, and allowed capacity of a link.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of PM counters comprise at least one of a count of call attempts, count of incoming calls, count of outgoing calls, events, success rate, reset events, resource usage, traffic data, signaling, and a call drop rate.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning and statistical techniques comprises at least one of a regression model, random forests model, and a clustering model.
7. A method for profiling one or more nodes based on a hybrid Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node in a communication network, the method comprising: receiving, by a processor, a flag indicating an issue with a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node present in a network of nodes and user inputs comprising a set of Configuration Management (CM) parameters influencing the KPI; computing, by the processor, deviation in magnitude of each CM parameter, of the set of CM parameters, from a predefined CM magnitude to determine a changed CM parameter with deviation magnitude higher than deviation magnitude of remaining CM parameters of the set of CM parameters; identifying, by the processor, a set of Performance Management (PM) counters, influencing the KPI, by comparing magnitude of each PM counter, from the set of PM counters, with a predefined threshold value, wherein the magnitude indicates real-time performance of the PM counters; creating, by the processor, a hybrid KPI based on combination of the changed CM parameter and a subset of PM counters by using the machine learning and statistical techniques, wherein the subset of PM counters is associated to the changed CM parameter, and wherein the hybrid KPI indicates performance of the node; and profiling, by the processor, one or more nodes, present in the network of nodes, by comparing the hybrid KPI associated to the node with hybrid KPI corresponding to each of the one or more nodes.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprises receiving user inputs comprising changed CM parameters based on the flag; and updating the set of CM parameters based on the user inputs.
9. The method of claim 7 further comprises installing a patch at the node to resolve the flag, wherein the patch is installed based on the hybrid KPI.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the set of CM parameters comprise at least one of a transmit power of antenna, CPU utilization, Hysteresis threshold for handover, and allowed capacity of a link.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the set of PM counters comprise at least one of a count of call attempts, count of incoming calls, count of outgoing calls, events, success rate, reset events, resource usage, traffic data, signaling, and a call drop rate.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the machine learning and statistical techniques comprises at least one of a regression model, random forests model, and a clustering model.
13. A computer program product having embodied thereon a computer program for profiling one or more nodes based on a hybrid Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node in a communication network, the computer program product comprises: a program code for receiving a flag indicating an issue with a Key Performance Indicator (KPI) associated to a node present in a network of nodes and user inputs comprising a set of Configuration Management (CM) parameters influencing the KPI; a program code for computing deviation in magnitude of each CM parameter, of the set of CM parameters, from a predefined CM magnitude to determine a changed CM parameter with deviation magnitude higher than deviation magnitude of remaining CM parameters of the set of CM parameters; a program code for identifying a set of Performance Management (PM) counters, influencing the KPI, by comparing magnitude of each PM parameter, from the set of PM counters, with a predefined threshold value, wherein the magnitude indicates real-time performance of the PM counters; a program code for creating a hybrid KPI based on combination of the deviated CM parameter and a subset of PM counters by using the machine learning and statistical techniques, wherein the subset of PM counters is associated to the changed CM parameter, and wherein the hybrid KPI indicates performance of the node; and a program code for profiling one or more nodes, present in the network of nodes, by comparing the hybrid KPI associated to the node with hybrid KPI corresponding to each of the one or more nodes.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of PM counters is identified using machine learning or statistical techniques.
15. The method of claim 7, wherein the set of PM counters is identified using machine learning or statistical techniques.
16. The program of claim 13, wherein the set of PM counters is identified using machine learning or statistical techniques.
</claims>
</document>
