<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/176,G06F17/27,G06F21/62,G06F3/0482,G06Q10/10,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAN, PATRICK MICHAEL
MILVANEY, DOUGLAS LANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67476772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Smart suggested sharing contacts
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is a system and method for suggesting other user(s) with whom to share an electronic file. During editing of the electronic file, an intent of a user to share the electronic file can be inferred. For each of a plurality of other users, a probability indicative of a likelihood that the user would like to share the electronic file with the particular other user is calculated. Based upon the calculated probabilities, at least one other user to suggest to the user for sharing of the electronic file is identified. Information regarding the identified at least one other user is displayed. Based upon a user selection of another user to share the electronic file with, an algorithm used to calculate the probabilities can be updated.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for suggesting another user with whom to share an electronic file, the system comprising: a computer comprising a processor and a memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by the processor, cause the computer to: during editing of the electronic file, infer an intent of a user to share the electronic file; in response to the inferred intent, for each particular other user of a plurality of other users, calculate a probability indicative of a likelihood that the user would like to share the electronic file with the particular other user based, at least in part, upon which stage of a plurality of stages in an editing lifecycle the electronic file is in; based upon the calculated probabilities, identify at least one other user to suggest to the user for sharing of the electronic file; and, display information regarding the identified at least one other user.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the intent of the user to share the electronic file is inferred based upon a file management event comprising at least one of creating the electronic file, moving of the electronic file or renaming of the electronic file.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the intent of the user to share the electronic file is inferred based upon expiration of a predetermined period of time.
4. The system of claim 1, the memory having further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by the processor, cause the computer to: receive user input regarding a selected other user with whom to share the electronic file; and share the electronic file with the selected other user.
5. The system of claim 4, the memory having further computer-executable instructions stored thereupon which, when executed by the processor, cause the computer to: update an algorithm used to calculate the probabilities based upon the received user input.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon at least one of contacts stored on the computer, information stored on a directory of other users, or historical information regarding file sharing of the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated using an algorithm comprising at least one of a linear regression algorithm, a logistic regression algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm, a K-means algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a dimensionality reduction algorithm, or a Gradient Boost & Adaboost algorithm.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon at least one of an analysis of content of the electronic file, or metadata associated with the electronic file.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon at least one of information about the user or information about the other users.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon at least one of individual other users who have worked on similar electronic files, or a skill set similar to content of the electronic file.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon a previous interaction of the user external to the electronic file with at least one of the plurality of other users.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon an analysis of content of other files.
13. A method of suggesting another user with whom to share an electronic file, the method comprising: during editing of the electronic file, inferring an intent of a user to share the electronic file; in response to the inferred intent, for each particular other user of a plurality of other users, calculating a probability indicative of a likelihood that the user would like to share the electronic file with the particular other user based, at least in part, upon which stage of a plurality of stages in an editing lifecycle the electronic file is in; based upon the calculated probabilities, identifying at least one other user to suggest to the user for sharing of the electronic file; and, displaying information regarding the identified at least one other user.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein inferring the intent of the user to share the electronic file is based upon a file management event comprising at least one of creating the electronic file, moving of the electronic file or renaming of the electronic file.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving user input regarding a selected other user with whom to share the electronic file; sharing the electronic file with the selected other user; and updating an algorithm used to calculate the probabilities based upon the received user input.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the probabilities are calculated using an algorithm comprising at least one of a linear regression algorithm, a logistic regression algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm, a K-means algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a dimensionality reduction algorithm, or a Gradient Boost & Adaboost algorithm.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon a previous interaction of the user external to the electronic file with at least one of the plurality of other users.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the probabilities are calculated based upon at least one of an analysis of content of the electronic file, or metadata associated with the electronic file.
19. A computer storage media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed cause a computing device to: during editing of an electronic file, infer an intent of a user to share the electronic file; in response to the inferred intent, for each particular other user of a plurality of other users, calculate a probability indicative of a likelihood that the user would like to share the electronic file with the particular other user based, at least in part, upon which stage of a plurality of stages in an editing lifecycle the electronic file is in; based upon the calculated probabilities, identify at least one other user to suggest to the user for sharing of the electronic file; and, display information regarding the identified at least one other user.
20. The computer storage media of claim 19, wherein the probabilities are calculated using an algorithm comprising at least one of a linear regression algorithm, a logistic regression algorithm, a decision tree algorithm, a support vector machine (SVM) algorithm, a Naive Bayes algorithm, a K-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm, a K-means algorithm, a random forest algorithm, a dimensionality reduction algorithm, or a Gradient Boost & Adaboost algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
