<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/08,A61B5/091,A61B5/097,A62B23/06,A62B7/10,A62B9/00,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADVANCED VENTILATION APPLICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, ROBERT T.
LIPHARDT, JAN
SOKOL, ERIC R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59500151
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for respiratory health management
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for respiratory health management are provided. An air filtration and analysis system may comprise an apparatus configured to be worn by a user. The apparatus may comprise a filtration device. The system may also include a plurality of sensors configured to collect data. A portion of the sensor data may be indicative of (i) one or more characteristics of the air inhaled and/or exhaled by the user, and/or (ii) an environment in which the user is located. At least one sensor and/or the apparatus may be in communication with a processor that is configured to analyze the collected sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An air filtration and analysis system, comprising: an apparatus configured to be worn by a user, said apparatus comprising a filtration device configured to reduce one or more elements from air prior to inhalation of the air by the user, wherein the apparatus comprises a retention mechanism configured to releasably couple to a nasal passage of the user in order to secure the apparatus in place when worn by the user, wherein the retention mechanism comprises a flexible compressible material that is (i) initially provided in a compressed state to aid insertion of the retention mechanism into the nasal passage and (ii) released from the compressed state into an expanded state to couple the retention mechanism to the nasal passage, and wherein the retention mechanism comprises an upper lip and at least one lower lip that are configured to anchor to natural pockets of the nasal passage; a plurality of sensors comprising a first sensor, a second sensor, and a third sensor, wherein the first and second sensors are located on the apparatus and the third sensor is located remote from the apparatus, wherein the first sensor is configured to collect a first set of data associated with air inhaled by the user as said air passes through the apparatus into the user's body, wherein the second sensor is configured to collect a second set of data associated with breath exhaled by the user as said breath passes through the apparatus out of the user's body, and wherein the third sensor is configured to collect a third set of data associated with an environment in which the user is located; and a processor configured to analyze (1) the first set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air inhaled by the user, (2) the second set of data to determine a health status or medical conditions of the user based on the breath exhaled by the user, and (3) the third set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air in the environment, wherein the processor is further configured to generate recommendations for improving a health or well-being of the user based on the analyzed first, second, and third sets of data, and wherein the recommendations comprise a score provided on a scale, the score being indicative of a predicted impact level of the one or more elements on the user's health.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the filtration device is configured to be placed within the nasal passage of the user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the first sensor and the second sensor are selected from the group consisting of chemical sensors, pressure sensors, and air flow sensors, and wherein the third sensor is selected from the group consisting of heart-rate monitors, blood oxygen saturation sensors, global positioning system (GPS) sensors, temperature sensors, and inertial sensors.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to control operation of the filtration device to reduce an impact of the one or more elements on the user's health.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform one or more of the following steps: (1) calibrate the first sensor or the second sensor against a baseline sensor reference; (2) check whether the first sensor or the second sensor is operating normally; and/or (3) correct for sensor drift, error or bias in the first sensor or the second sensor.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first and second sensors are configured to collect the first and second sets of data at different predetermined sampling frequencies.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to data cross-check an accuracy of the first, second, and third sets of data against each other.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine correlations between the first, second, and third sets of data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to assign weights to the first, second, and third sets of data based on an accuracy of each of the first, second, and third sensors.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to analyze the first, second, and third sets of data using statistical methods.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the first, second, and third sets of data each comprises a different type of data.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is located on a mobile device or a wearable device that is carried or worn by the user, and/or on a server that is remote to the user.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the score comprises a numerical value that is displayable on a graphical user interface of the mobile device or the wearable device.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to compress and store the first, second, and third sets of data in a memory.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to control the filtration device (1) to meet the user's physiological needs and activities, and (2) based on the user's local environment.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to analyze the second set of data to determine a type of activity that the user is performing.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to analyze the first and third sets of data to determine the user's proximity to known sources of pollution, the environment that the user is located in, time of day, or the season that the user is currently in.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to control the filtration device to dynamically and automatically adapt in real-time as the user moves from one location to another location, as the time of day changes, as the season changes, or depending on changes in the user's health status.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to (1) selectively activate or de-activate at least one of the plurality of sensors, or (2) adjust a sensitivity level, sensing range, or sampling frequency of at least one of the plurality of sensors.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the recommendations further comprise one or more of the following: (1) a warning of an impact to the user's health should the user continue to inhale air containing the one or more elements; and/or (2) a suggested corrective action to minimize inhalation of the air containing the one or more elements, wherein the suggested corrective action comprises a recommendation to the user to relocate from the user's current location to another area with less pollution.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the recommendations are displayed as a set of graphical visual objects on a graphical display.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the apparatus has a shape or profile that minimizes physical interference with lip movement of the user and does not visually obstruct lip movement or facial expression of the user, while the apparatus is being worn by the user.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the apparatus does not encroach on the user's upper lip while the apparatus is being worn by the user.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the flexible compressible material comprises an organic polymer.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the retention mechanism comprises a sealing edge configured to seal the nasal passage to prevent the air from bypassing the filtration device during inhalation.
26. A method for air filtering and respiratory analysis, comprising: providing an apparatus configured to be worn by a user, said apparatus comprising a filtration device configured to reduce one or more elements from air prior to inhalation of the air by the user, wherein the apparatus comprises a retention mechanism configured to releasably couple to a nasal passage of the user in order to secure the apparatus in place when worn by the user, wherein the retention mechanism comprises a flexible compressible material that is (i) initially provided in a compressed state to aid insertion of the retention mechanism into the nasal passage and (ii) released from the compressed state into an expanded state to couple the retention mechanism to the nasal passage, and wherein the retention mechanism comprises an upper lip and at least one lower lip that are configured to anchor to natural pockets of the nasal passage; providing a plurality of sensors comprising a first sensor, a second sensor, and a third sensor, wherein the first and second sensors are located on the apparatus and the third sensor is located remote from the apparatus; using the first sensor to collect a first set of data associated with air inhaled by the user as said air passes through the apparatus into the user's body, using the second sensor to collect a second set of data associated with breath exhaled by the user as said breath passes through the apparatus out of the user's body, and using the third sensor to collect a third set of data associated with an environment in which the user is located; with aid of a processor: analyzing (1) the first set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air inhaled by the user, (2) the second set of data to determine a health status or medical conditions of the user based on the breath exhaled by the user, and (3) the third set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air in the environment; and generating recommendations for improving a health or well-being of the user based on the analyzed first, second, and third sets of data, wherein the recommendations comprise a score provided on a scale, the score being indicative of a predicted impact level of the one or more elements on the user's health.
27. A tangible computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform a computer-implemented method for filtering air and respiratory analysis, the method comprising: collecting a first set of data using a first sensor, a second set of data using a second sensor, and a third set of data using a third sensor, wherein the first and second sensors are located on an apparatus configured to be worn by a user, and the third sensor is located remote from the apparatus, said apparatus comprising a filtration device configured to reduce one or more elements from air prior to inhalation of the air by the user, wherein the apparatus comprises a retention mechanism configured to releasably couple to a nasal passage of the user in order to secure the apparatus in place when worn by the user, wherein the retention mechanism comprises a flexible compressible material that is (i) initially provided in a compressed state to aid insertion of the retention mechanism into the nasal passage and (ii) released from the compressed state into an expanded state to couple the retention mechanism to the nasal passage, and wherein the retention mechanism comprises an upper lip and at least one lower lip that are configured to anchor to natural pockets of the nasal passage, wherein the first set of data is associated with air inhaled by the user as said air passes through the apparatus into the user's body, wherein the second set of data is associated with breath exhaled by the user as said breath passes through the apparatus out of the user's body, and wherein the third set of data is associated with an environment in which the user is located; and with aid of the processor: analyzing (1) the first set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air inhaled by the user, (2) the second set of data to determine a health status or medical conditions of the user based on the breath exhaled by the user, and (3) the third set of data to determine one or more characteristics of the air in the environment; and generating recommendations for improving a health or well-being of the user based on the analyzed first, second, and third sets of data, wherein the recommendations comprise a score provided on a scale, the score being indicative of a predicted impact level of the one or more elements on the user's health.
</claims>
</document>
