<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/00,A61B17/02,A61B17/11,A61B34/00,A61B90/00,A61F2/68,A61F2/70,A61F2/74,A61H1/02,A61H3/00,F15B15/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALSH, CONOR
NEFF, RYAN
DUBROVSKY, ZIVTHAN
HOLLAND, DONAL
CLITES, TYLER
BOGGS, EMILY MARIE
GALLOWAY, KEVIN
POLYGERINOS, PANAGIOTIS
MAEDER-YORK, PAXTON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53005056
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-segment reinforced actuators and applications
</title>

<abstract>
A multi-segment reinforced actuator includes (a) a soft actuator body that defines a chamber and (b) a plurality of distinct reinforcement structures on or in respective segments of the soft actuator body. First and second reinforcement structures are respectively configured to produce a first and second actuation motions, respectively, in first and second segments of the soft actuator body when fluid flows into or out of the chamber. The actuation motions are selected bending, extending, expansion, contraction, twisting, and combinations thereof; and the first actuation motion differs from the second actuation motion. The actuator can be used, e.g., to facilitate bending of the thumb with corresponding bending, extending, expansion, contraction, and twisting actuation motions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A multi-segment reinforced actuator, comprising: at least one soft actuator body defining a chamber; and a plurality of distinct segments of the soft actuator body, wherein a first segment has a first configuration mechanically programmed to produce a first actuation motion when pressurized fluid flows into or out of the chamber, and wherein a second segment has a second configuration mechanically programmed distinctly from the first configuration to produce a second actuation motion, wherein the actuation motions are selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting, and combinations thereof, and wherein the first actuation motion is different from and non-canceling of the second actuation motion and wherein the segments together generate a plurality of the motions selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting and combinations thereof.
2. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, wherein the first and second actuation motions comprise at least one of extending and bending.
3. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 2, wherein the actuator comprises a plurality of the first segments and a plurality of the second segments, wherein the first segments are structured to produce an actuation motion comprising bending, wherein the second segments are structured to produce an actuation motion comprising extending, and wherein the first segments are interspersed between the second segments.
4. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 3, wherein the first and second segments comprise at least one fabric.
5. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 4, further comprising a bladder contained in the fabric, wherein the bladder defines the chamber.
6. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 5, wherein a plurality of chambers are defined in the soft actuator body, wherein different chambers are configured to provide different functionalities.
7. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, wherein chambers are defined in the soft actuator body on opposite sides of the multi-segment reinforced actuator, and wherein the first and second actuation motions combine extending and bending to produce (a) bending in a first direction and (b) bending in a second direction depending upon which of the opposing chambers is actuated via a change in pressure inside the chamber, wherein the second direction is opposite to the first direction.
8. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, further comprising at least one of an electronic device and a sensor joined with the soft actuator body.
9. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, further comprising a fluid connector positioned and configured to provide a path for fluid flow into and out of the chamber.
10. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 9, wherein the soft actuator body is incorporated into a glove configured to be worn on a human hand.
11. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 10, further comprising a control system connected with the soft actuator body, wherein the control system comprises a pneumatic or hydraulic pump, valves, and a microprocessor and is configured to control fluid flow through the fluid connector into and out of the chamber.
12. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first configuration and the second configuration is mechanically programmed to generate a twisting motion.
13. The multi-segment reinforced actuator of claim 1, wherein the first and second segment are joined in series and configured to flow a common fluid through the first segment and then through the second segment to generate the distinct actuation motion in each.
14. A multi-segment reinforced actuator, comprising; at least one soft actuator body defining a chamber, wherein the soft actuator body is incorporated into a glove configured to be worn on a human hand; a fluid connector positioned and configured to provide a path for fluid flow into and out of the chamber; a control system connected with the soft actuator body, wherein the control system comprises a pneumatic or hydraulic pump, valves, and a microprocessor and is configured to control fluid flow through the fluid connector into and out of the chamber; a plurality of distinct segments of the soft actuator body, wherein a first segment has a first configuration mechanically programmed to produce a first actuation motion when pressurized fluid flows into or out of the chamber, and wherein a second segment-has a second configuration mechanically programmed distinctly from the first configuration to produce a second actuation motion, wherein the actuation motions are selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting, and combinations thereof, and wherein the first actuation motion is different from and non-canceling of the second actuation motion and wherein the segments together generate a plurality of the motions selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting and combinations thereof; and a sensor incorporated into the glove and in communication with the microprocessor, wherein the microprocessor is configured to control the fluid flow based on communications from the sensor.
15. A multi-segment reinforced actuator, comprising: at least one soft actuator body defining a chamber; and a plurality of distinct segments of the soft actuator body, wherein a first segment has a first configuration mechanically programmed to produce a first actuation motion when pressurized fluid flows into or out of the chamber, and wherein a second segment has a second configuration mechanically programmed distinctly from the first configuration to produce a second actuation motion, wherein the first and second actuation motions comprise at least contracting, and wherein the configuration of at least one of the first and second segments is also mechanically programmed to produce an additional actuation motion selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, twisting, and combinations thereof, and wherein the mechanically programmed additional actuation motion renders the mechanically programmed actuation motions produced by the first and second segments different and non-canceling of each other and wherein the segments together are mechanically programmed to generate a plurality of the motions selected from bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting and combinations thereof.
16. A method for variable actuation along multiple segments of an actuator, the method comprising: using a soft actuator body that defines a chamber and that includes a plurality of distinct segments, including a first segment having a first configuration mechanically programmed to produce a first actuation motion when pressurized fluid flows into or out of the chamber and a second segment having a second configuration mechanically programmed distinctly from the first configuration to produce a second actuation motion; and pumping fluid into or out of the chamber to produce an actuation motion in each segment of the soft actuator body selected from at least one of the following types: bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting and combinations thereof, wherein the first segment actuates with a motion of a first type and wherein the second segment actuates with a motion of a second type as a consequence of the first configuration and the second configuration, respectively, wherein the first type differs from the second type.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the first and second actuation motions comprise at least one of extending and bending.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the actuator comprises a plurality of the first segments and a plurality of the second segments, wherein the first segments produce an actuation motion comprising bending, wherein the second segments produce an actuation motion comprising extending, and wherein the first segments are interspersed between the second segments.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the first and second segments comprise at least one fabric.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the soft actuator body further comprises a bladder contained in the fabric and into or out of which the fluid is pumped.
21. The method of claim 16, further comprising attaching the multi-segment reinforced actuator to a human hand and aligning the soft actuator body with a digit of the human hand.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising using the respective actuation motions in the respective segments to cause or mechanically assist the digit to bend or straighten at the joints.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising using the actuation motions in a plurality of the soft actuators that assist the human to open or close a plurality of digits of the human's hand.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the actuation motions that assist the human to open or close digits of the human's hands are carried out as part of a physical therapy program.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the physical therapy is carried out in the human's home.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising using at least one sensor to record actuation data and communicating the data from the sensor to a remote clinician who monitors the physical therapy.
27. The method of claim 22, wherein the multi-segment reinforced actuator distributes force, generated by pressurization of the chamber, over the entire length of the digit.
28. The method of claim 21, wherein chambers, including a first and second chamber, are defined on opposite sides of the multi-segment reinforced actuator, and wherein actuating the first chamber via a change in pressure inside the first chamber produces bending that assists the hand in closing, and wherein actuating the second chamber via an increase in pressure inside the second chamber produces stiffening that assists the hand in opening via straightening of the digits.
29. The method of claim 28, wherein the multi-segment reinforced actuator is incorporated into a glove worn on the hand of the human, and wherein the glove further includes an additional multi-segment reinforced actuator aligned with a wrist of the human, the method further comprising pumping fluid into the additional multi-segment reinforced actuator to assist bending of the human wrist.
30. The method of claim 16, wherein a plurality of chambers are defined in the soft actuator body, the method further comprising independently actuating the different chambers via changes in pressure inside the chambers to provide different functionalities.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein the plurality of chambers includes first and second chambers on opposite sides of the multi-segment reinforced actuator, and wherein the first and second actuation motions combine extending and bending, the method further comprising: actuating a first segment on a first side of the multi-segment reinforced actuator via a pressure change inside the first chamber to bend the multi-segment reinforced actuator in a first direction; and actuating a second segment on a second side of the multi-segment reinforced actuator via a pressure change inside the second chamber to bend the multi-segment reinforced actuator in a second direction that is opposite to the first direction.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising: attaching the first and second segments of the soft actuator body to a digit of a human hand, adjusting the pressurization in the first chamber to control the degree of closing of the digit of the human hand.
33. The method of claim 16, wherein the first and second actuation motions comprise at least contracting.
34. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one of the first actuation motion and the second actuation motion generated as a consequence of the mechanical programming includes twisting.
35. The method of claim 16, further the fluid is pumped through the first segment and then through the second segment to generate the distinct actuation motions in the first and second segments.
36. A method for variable actuation along multiple segments of an actuator, wherein the actuator is in the form of a glove, and wherein a sensor is incorporated in the glove, the method comprising: attaching the glove to a human hand, the glove including a soft actuator body that defines a chamber and that includes a plurality of distinct segments, including a first segment and a second segment, wherein the soft actuator body is aligned with a digit of the human hand; sensing an action of the human or contact with an object using the sensor; pumping fluid into or out of the chamber in response to the sensed action or contact to produce an actuation motion in each segment of the soft actuator body selected from at least one of the following types: bending, extending, stiffening, expansion, contraction, twisting and combinations thereof, wherein the first segment actuates with a motion of a first type and wherein the second segment actuates with a motion of a second type, wherein the first type differs from the second type; and using the respective actuation motions in the respective segments to cause or mechanically assist the digit to end or straighten at joints of the digit.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the action is selected from motion, transmission of an electromyography signal, and generation of a voice command.
</claims>
</document>
