<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/20,A61F13/15,A61F13/42,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ESSITY HYGIENE AND HEALTH
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHONG, TIMOTHY
DABOR, JEREMY
DHAR, SAMEER
FEJES, ZACHARY
IRONSTONE, JOEL
PORTHIYAS, DANNY
QIU, HARRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56106371
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Impedance sensors for detecting and monitoring moisture in absorbent articles
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for detecting moisture in an absorbent article worn by a wearer including an impedance sensing element and an attachment member for securing the impedance sensing element at a location on an exterior surface of the absorbent article. The impedance sensing element includes electrodes. The electrodes are positioned so as to be capacitively coupled to an interior region of the absorbent article and to measure an impedance of the absorbent article from the location on the exterior surface of the absorbent article. The system may also include an impedance measurement subsystem for measuring the impedance of the absorbent article, and extracting a real component of the impedance and an imaginary component of the impedance for determining a characteristic of the moisture in the absorbent article.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system for detecting moisture in an absorbent article worn by a wearer, comprising: an impedance sensing element including electrodes; an attachment member configured to secure the impedance sensing element at a location on an exterior surface of the absorbent article such that the electrodes are positioned exterior to the absorbent article, capacitively coupled to an interior region of the absorbent article, and positioned to measure an impedance of the absorbent article from the location exterior to the absorbent article; and an impedance measurement subsystem for measuring the impedance of the absorbent article, and extracting a real component of the impedance, which includes a resistive component, and an imaginary component of the impedance, which includes a reactive component, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to determine a relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and a characteristic of the moisture in the absorbent article.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic includes a presence of the moisture in the absorbent article.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the characteristic includes an amount of the moisture in the absorbent article.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to measure the impedance between the electrodes.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance is a complex impedance having a magnitude and a phase.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the magnitude is indicative of the characteristic of the moisture.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the phase is indicative of the characteristic of the moisture.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein a reduction in the phase and the magnitude is indicative of a state wherein the absorbent article is wet but not filled to capacity.
9. The system of claim 5, wherein a reduction in the magnitude but not the phase is indicative of a state where the absorbent article is filled to capacity.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to perform an optimization technique using a linear regression, a neural network, and/or a support vector machine, to determine the relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and the characteristic of the moisture.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to perform a simulation to determine the relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and the characteristic of the moisture.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to acquire data from another system that is distinct from the system, to determine the relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and the characteristic of the moisture.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to measure the impedance with a sinusoid of a single frequency.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to measure the impedance by applying a voltage to one of the electrodes and measuring current at another of the electrodes.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to measure the impedance by applying a current to one of the electrodes and measuring a voltage between that electrode and another of the electrodes.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to determine the characteristic of the moisture using the real component.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the characteristic of the moisture includes a degree of wetness of the absorbent article.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to measure the impedance at discrete frequencies.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to acquire the resistive and reactive components at discrete frequencies, to determine the relationship between the resistive and reactive components and the characteristic of the moisture.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is further configured to determine whether the impedance sensing element is attached to the absorbent article based on a characteristic of the reactive component.
21. An incontinence management system, comprising: an absorbent article for wearing by a wearer, wherein the absorbent article includes: an interior, an exterior, and a water resistant barrier layer between the interior and the exterior; an impedance sensing element including electrodes; an attachment member for securing the impedance sensing element to the exterior, wherein the electrodes are separated from the interior by the barrier layer, are capacitively coupled to the interior through the barrier layer, and are positioned to measure an impedance of the absorbent article from the exterior; and an impedance measurement subsystem for measuring the impedance of the absorbent article, and extracting a real component of the impedance, which includes a resistive component, and an imaginary component of the impedance, which includes a reactive component, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to determine a relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and a characteristic of the moisture in the absorbent article.
22. A method for detecting moisture in an absorbent article worn by a wearer using an impedance sensing element, comprising: securing the impedance sensing element to an exterior of the absorbent article such that electrodes of the impedance sensing element are exterior to the absorbent article, capacitively coupled to an interior of the absorbent article, and positioned to measure an impedance of the absorbent article from the exterior; measuring the impedance of the absorbent article; and extracting a real component of the impedance, which includes a resistive component, and an imaginary component of the impedance, which includes a reactive component, wherein the impedance measurement subsystem is configured to determine a relationship between the resistive and reactive components of the impedance and a characteristic of the moisture in the absorbent article.
</claims>
</document>
