<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Harkness, Kevin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74045156
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Repairing missing frames in recorded video with machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
Repairing missing frames in a video includes obtaining video data from an image capture system, applying a first neural network model to the video data to detect that one or more frames are missing, where the first neural network model has been trained to detect missing frames based on training data in which an artificial gap has been introduced. In response to detecting that the one or more frames are missing, a second model is applied to the video data to generate one or more replacement frames. The one or more replacement frames are based on at least a first frame prior to the detected dropped one or more frames, and a second frame after the detected dropped one or more frames. Modified video data is generated using the plurality of frames and the replacement frames.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for repairing missing frames in a video, comprising: obtaining video data comprising a plurality of frames from an image capture system; applying a first neural network model to the video data to detect that one or more frames are missing, wherein the first neural network model has been trained to detect missing frames based on training data in which an artificial gap has been introduced; in response to detecting that the one or more frames are missing, applying a second model to the plurality of frames to generate one or more replacement frames, wherein the one or more replacement frames are based on at least a first frame of the plurality of frames prior to the one or more frames, and a second frame of the plurality of frames after the one or more frames; and generating modified video data using the plurality of frames and the one or more replacement frames.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first neural network model is trained by: obtaining a plurality of additional videos that are determined to not be missing frames; generating modified additional videos by modifying each of the plurality of additional videos to remove one or more additional frames from each of the videos; and training the first neural network to detect missing frames based on the modified additional videos.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting that the image capture system is capturing additional video data; in response to detecting that the image capture system is capturing additional video data, monitoring resources for the image capture system; detecting, based on the monitoring of the resources, that one or more parameters for the resources for the image capture system satisfy a predetermined condition; and in response to determining that the one or more parameters for the resources satisfy the predetermined condition: presenting an indication indicating that the image capture system will introduce missing frames into the additional video data, and prompting a user to indicate whether the additional video data is to be repaired.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: in response to an affirmative response from the user, repairing the additional video data using the second model.
5. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising computer readable code for repairing missing frames in recorded video data, executable by one or more processors to: obtain video data comprising a plurality of frames from an image capture system; detect that one or more frames of the video data are missing; in response to detecting that the one or more frames are missing, generate one or more replacement frames based on a first frame of the plurality of frames prior to the one or more frames, and a second frame of the plurality of frames after the one or more frames; and generate modified video data using the plurality of frames and the one or more replacement frames.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 5, wherein the one or more frames are detected to be missing by applying a classification neural network model to the video data.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein the classification neural network model is trained by: obtaining a plurality of additional videos that are determined to not be missing frames; generating modified videos by modifying each of the plurality of additional videos to remove one or more additional frames from each of the plurality of additional videos; and training the classification neural network model to detect missing frames based on the modified videos.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 7, wherein each of the plurality of additional videos is modified to remove the one or more additional frames using a rendering module.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 6, wherein applying the classification network model to the video data to detect that the one or more frames are missing comprises: determining a probability that the one or more frames are missing based on the classification neural network model, and detecting that the one or more frames are missing based on the probability satisfying a predetermined threshold.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 5, wherein the one or more replacement frames are generated by interpolating the one or more replacement frames from the first frame and the second frame.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 5, wherein the one or more replacement frames are generated by a generative network.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 11, wherein the first frame is captured from a first point of view and the second frame is captured from a second point of view, and wherein the generative network generates one of the one or more replacement frames from a third point of view that is different from the first point of view and the second point of view, and wherein at least one of the one or more replacement frames depicts an occlusion in a captured environment that is not present in the first frame or the second frame.
13. A system for repairing missing frames in a video, comprising: a display device; a camera; one or more processors; and one or more computer readable media coupled to the one or more processors and comprising computer readable code which, when executed by the one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to: detect that the camera is capturing video data comprising a plurality of frames; in response to detecting that the camera is capturing additional video data, monitor one or more system resources for the camera; detect, based on the monitoring of the one or more system resources, that one or more parameters for the one or more system resources satisfy a predetermined condition by applying a prediction model to determine a probability that one or more frames are likely to be dropped based on a usage of the one or more system resources; and in response to determining that the one or more parameters for the one or more system resources satisfy the predetermined condition, presenting an indication that the video data is likely to be missing frames.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the computer readable code, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to: receive, in response to the indication that the video data is likely to be missing frames, user input requesting repair of the video data; and cause the video data to be repaired.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer readable code to cause the video data to be repaired further causes the one or more processors to transmit the video data to a remote device for repair.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the computer readable code to cause the video data to be repaired further causes the one or more processors to: apply a repair model to the plurality of frames to generate one or more replacement frames, wherein the one or more replacement frames are based on at least a first frame of the plurality of frames prior to the one or more frames, and a second frame of the plurality of frames after the one or more frames.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the repair model is based on a generative network.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the one or more replacement frames are generated by interpolating the one or more replacement frames from the first frame and the second frame.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the one or more system resources comprise at least one of memory usage, processor usage, temperature of the system, age of the system, current frame rate, and memory properties.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the indication indicates that the video data is repairable.
</claims>
</document>
