<document>

<filing_date>
2014-08-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/24,G06F17/30,G16B50/00,G16H10/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QIAGEN
QIAGEN REDWOOD CITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RICHARDS, DANIEL, R.
BASSETT, JR., DOUGLAS E.
SCHATZ, PEER M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55302324
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for interpretation and reporting of sequence-based genetic tests using pooled allele statistics
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are system, method, and computer program product embodiments for building a community database of allele counts. An embodiment operates by receiving human variant datasets derived from samples generated by distinct users, wherein the users consented to share pooled variant observations with other users; determining that a plurality of variant observations meet the inclusion criteria for a pool; and calculating one or more anonymized allele statistics from the pool.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for building a community database of variant observations, comprising: receiving human variant datasets derived from samples generated by a plurality of distinct users, wherein the users consented to share pooled variant observations with other users; storing the received human variant datasets in a knowledge base of genomic information, wherein the knowledge base comprises an ontology data structure that identifies a causal relationship between a genetic variant and a phenotype based on a combination of the genetic variant and modifier variant information, wherein the knowledge base links the genetic variant and the modifier variant information, wherein the modifier variant information is based on curated evidence and derived from patient test information, and wherein the modifier variant information identifies whether modifier variants that modify a severity of the phenotype are likely to exist; searching the knowledge base to identify a plurality of variant observations that meet inclusion criteria for a pool; adding each identified variant observation to the pool; calculating one or more anonymized allele statistics from the pool; and classifying a variant observation in the pool into a clinical significance category using the knowledge base and the anonymized allele statistics of the pool, wherein at least one of the receiving, storing, searching, adding, calculating, or classifying are performed by one or more computers.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that variant observations derived from one or more samples do not contribute to the pool of alleles based on at least one of a breadth of genome coverage of the sample, depth of coverage of the sample, quality of the sample, variant call quality, a phenotype associated with the sample, sample redundancy, variant counts, a trust metric for a source of the sample, community feedback, containing a well-established disease-causing variant, manual or automated quality control, or any combination thereof.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: annotating the samples with one or more ethnicities using at least one of principal component analysis, a user-provided annotation, or any combination thereof.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculating comprises: calculating an allele frequency that is a ratio of a number of observed incidences of the given variant to a total number of samples in the pool believed to have potential to measure the given variant.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing to a user one or more allele statistics for one or more alleles.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: excluding access to the allele statistics from users who have not provided consent during the receiving step.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the providing comprises: providing the allele statistics to the user via a web-based resource.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: filtering variants using the allele statistics.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein variant datasets are gathered during an interpretation workflow for variant datasets.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing an incentive to one or more of the users for sharing the variant datasets.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the incentive is access to the allele statistics.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of users is greater than 20.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of users is greater than 50.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of users is greater than 100.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of users is greater than 1000.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of aggregated samples is greater than 10,000.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of samples is greater than 100,000.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the number of samples is greater than 1,000,000.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that variant observations in the plurality of variant observations do not contribute to the pool of alleles based on at least one of variant call quality, read depth, known association with a common technical error or failure mode, manual or automated quality control, or any combination thereof.
20. A system, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive human variant datasets derived from samples generated by a plurality of distinct users, wherein the users consented to share pooled variant observations with other users; store the received human variant datasets in a knowledge base of genomic information, wherein the knowledge base comprises an ontology data structure that identifies a causal relationship between a genetic variant and a phenotype based on a combination of the genetic variant and modifier variant information, wherein the knowledge base links the genetic variant and the modifier variant information, wherein the modifier variant information is based on curated evidence and derived from patient test information, and wherein the modifier variant information identifies whether modifier variants that modify a severity of the phenotype are likely to exist; search the knowledge base to identify a plurality of variant observations that meet inclusion criteria for a pool; add each identified variant observation to the pool; calculate one or more anonymized allele statistics from the pool; and classify a variant observation in the pool into a clinical significance category using the knowledge base and the anonymized allele statistics of the pool.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that variant observations derived from one or more samples do not contribute to the pool of alleles based on at least one of a breadth of genome coverage of the sample, depth of coverage of the sample, quality of the sample, variant call quality, a phenotype associated with the sample, sample redundancy, variant counts, a trust metric for a source of the sample, community feedback, containing a well-established disease-causing variant, manual or automated quality control, or any combination thereof.
22. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: annotate the samples with one or more ethnicities using at least one of principal component analysis, a user-provided annotation, or any combination thereof.
23. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to calculate by: calculating an allele frequency that is a ratio of a number of observed incidences of the given variant to a total number of samples in the pool believed to have potential to measure the given variant.
24. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: provide to a user one or more allele statistics for one or more alleles.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: exclude access to the allele statistics from users who have not provided consent during the receiving step.
26. The system of claim 24, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: provide the allele statistics to the user via a web-based resource.
27. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: filter variants using the allele statistics.
28. The system of claim 20, wherein variant datasets are gathered during an interpretation workflow for variant datasets.
29. The system of claim 20, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: provide an incentive to one or more of the users for sharing the variant datasets.
30. The system of claim 29, wherein the incentive is access to the allele statistics.
31. A tangible computer-readable device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one computing device, causes the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving human variant datasets derived from samples generated by a plurality of distinct users, wherein the users consented to share pooled variant observations with other users; storing the received human variant datasets in a knowledge base of genomic information, wherein the knowledge base comprises an ontology data structure that identifies a causal relationship between a genetic variant and a phenotype based on a combination of the genetic variant and modifier variant information, wherein the knowledge base links the genetic variant and the modifier variant information, wherein the modifier variant information is based on curated evidence and derived from patient test information, and wherein the modifier variant information identifies whether modifier variants that modify a severity of the phenotype are likely to exist; searching the knowledge base to identify a plurality of variant observations that meet inclusion criteria for a pool; adding each identified variant observation to the pool; calculating one or more anonymized allele statistics from the pool; and classifying a variant observation in the pool into a clinical significance category using the knowledge base and the anonymized allele statistics of the pool.
32. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: determining that variant observations derived from one or more samples do not contribute to the pool of alleles based on at least one of a breadth of genome coverage of the sample, depth of coverage of the sample, quality of the sample, variant call quality, a phenotype associated with the sample, sample redundancy, variant counts, a trust metric for a source of the sample, community feedback, containing a well-established disease-causing variant, manual or automated quality control, or any combination thereof.
33. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: annotating the samples with one or more ethnicities using at least one of principal component analysis, a user-provided annotation, or any combination thereof.
34. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations for calculating further comprising: calculating an allele frequency that is a ratio of a number of observed incidences of the given variant to a total number of samples in the pool believed to have potential to measure the given variant.
35. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: providing to a user one or more allele statistics for one or more alleles.
36. The computer-readable device of claim 35, the operations further comprising: excluding access to the allele statistics from users who have not provided consent during the receiving step.
37. The computer-readable device of claim 35, the operations further comprising: providing the allele statistics to the user via a web-based resource.
38. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: filtering variants using the allele statistics.
39. The computer-readable device of claim 31, wherein variant datasets are gathered during an interpretation workflow for variant datasets.
40. The computer-readable device of claim 31, the operations further comprising: providing an incentive to one or more of the users for sharing the variant datasets.
41. The computer-readable device of claim 40, wherein the incentive is access to the allele statistics.
42. The method of claim 1, wherein the phenotype is associated with a disease.
43. The system of claim 20, wherein the phenotype is associated with a disease.
44. The computer-readable device of claim 31, wherein the phenotype is associated with a disease.
</claims>
</document>
