<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0486,G06F3/16,H04M1/60,H04M1/725,H04N7/14,H04N7/15,H04S7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LYREN, PHILIP SCOTT
NORRIS, GLEN A.
</assignee>

<inventors>
LYREN, PHILIP SCOTT
NORRIS, GLEN A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58056639
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Displaying an image of a calling party at coordinates from HRTFs
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device processes a voice of a calling party with head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) during a telephone call. A display displays an image representing the calling party with respect to an image representing the called party at a location obtained from coordinates of the HRTFs such that the display shows where the voice of the calling party will externally localize as binaural sound to the called party when the called party answers the telephone call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method executed by one or more electronic devices that provide a telephone call in binaural sound between a portable electronic device (PED) of a called party and a PED of a calling party, the method comprising: determining, by the one or more electronic devices, coordinates for a pair of head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) that convolve a voice of the calling party during the telephone call; and displaying, on a display of the PED of the called party and before the called party answers the telephone call, a location that shows where the voice of the calling party externally localizes in 3D space with respect to a head of the called party by simultaneously displaying an image that represents the called party and an image that represents a sound localization point (SLP) of the voice of the calling party, wherein the image that represents the SLP is positioned on the display with respect to the image that represents the called party at a location that corresponds to the coordinates of the HRTFs that convolve the voice of the calling party during the telephone call.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the image that represents the SLP is positioned on the display with respect to the image that represents the called party at a coordinate location that matches a coordinate location extracted from the HRTFs that convolve the voice of the calling party during the telephone call.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the image that represents the SLP is positioned on the display with respect to the image that represents the called party with an azimuth angle that matches an azimuth angle of the HRTFs that convolve the voice of the calling party during the telephone call.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the image that represents the SLP is positioned on the display with respect to the image that represents the called party with spherical coordinates equal to spherical coordinates of the HRTFs that convolve the voice of the calling party during the telephone call.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: calculating elevation and azimuth coordinates of the HRTFs that convolve the voice of the calling party during the telephone call; and positioning, before the called party answers the telephone call from the calling party, the image that represents the SLP on the display with respect to the image that represents the called party to have the elevation and azimuth coordinates of the HRTFs.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: mapping 3D coordinates of the HRTFs to 2D coordinates; and displaying, on the display of the PED of the called party and at the 2D coordinates, the image that represents the SLP with respect to the image that represents the called party.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: displaying, on the display of the PED of the called party and before the telephone call is answered, a first icon that when selected provides the voice of the calling party in mono or stereo sound and a second icon that when selected provides the voice of the calling party in the binaural sound.
8. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, at a user interface of the PED of the called party, a selection of an icon to have the telephone call in the binaural sound; and retrieving, by the PED of the called party and in response to the selection, the HRTFs.
9. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium that stores instructions that one or more electronic devices execute as a method comprising: obtaining coordinates from head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) that process a voice of a calling party for a telephone call to a called party; and displaying, on a display of a wearable electronic device (WED) worn by the called party and before the called party answers the telephone call, an image that represents the calling party with respect to an image that represents the called party at a location obtained from the coordinates of the HRTFs such that the location on the display shows where the voice of the calling party will externally localizes as binaural sound relative to a head of the called party when the called party answers the telephone call.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the image that represents the calling party is displayed at an azimuth coordinate location that matches an azimuth coordinate location obtained from the coordinates of the HRTFs.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the image that represents the calling party is displayed at an elevation coordinate location that matches an elevation coordinate location obtained from the coordinates of the HRTFs.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9 further comprising: simultaneously displaying, before the called party answers the telephone call, a plurality of icons around the image that represents the called party, wherein each of the icons represents a different sound localization point (SLP) where the voice of the calling party will externally localize as the binaural sound when selected by the called party.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9 further comprising: simultaneously displaying, on the display of the WED and before the called party answers the telephone call, three graphical icons that enable the called party to select between answering the telephone call in monophonic or stereo sound to localize the voice inside the head of the called party, answering the telephone call to externally localize the voice to a right side of the head of the called party, and answering the telephone call to externally localize the voice to a left side of the head of the called party.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9 further comprising: displaying, with the WED and during the telephone call, a graphical icon that when selected stops the voice of the calling party from externally localizing as the binaural sound and begins providing the voice of the calling party in monophonic sound or stereo sound; and displaying, with the WED and during the telephone call, a graphical icon that when selected resumes the voice of the calling party to externally localizing as the binaural sound and stops providing the voice of the calling party in the monophonic sound or the stereo sound.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9 further comprising: simultaneously displaying, on the display of the WED and before the called party answers the telephone call, a plurality of sound localization points (SLPs) around a head of the image that represents the called party to provide recommendations of where to externally localize the voice of the calling party as the binaural sound.
16. A method comprising: processing, with one or more electronic devices during a telephone call between a first user and a second user, a voice of the first user with head-related transfer functions (HRTFs) so the voice of the first user externally localizes as binaural sound to the second user; obtaining, with the one or more electronic devices, coordinates from the HRTFs that determine a sound localization point (SLP) where the voice of the first user externally localizes as the binaural sound to the second user; and displaying, on a display of the one or more electronic devices and before the second user answers the telephone call from the first user, an image that represents the first user with respect to an image that represents the second user at a location having the coordinates obtained from the HRTFs such that the display shows where the voice of the first user will externally localizes as the binaural sound to the second user after the second user answers the telephone call.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: displaying, on the display of the one or more electronic devices and before the second user answers the telephone call from the first user, the image that represents the first user at the SLP where the voice of the first user will externally localizes as the binaural sound to the second user after the second user answers the telephone call.
18. The method of claim 16 further comprising: simultaneously displaying, on the display of the one or more electronic devices and before the second user answers the telephone call from the first user, a plurality of graphical representations around a head of the image that represents the second user, wherein the graphical representations are SLPs that when selected provide the voice of the first user to externally localize as the binaural sound at locations corresponding to locations of the SLPs around the head of the image that represents the second user.
19. The method of claim 16 further comprising: displaying, on the display of the one or more electronic devices and before the second user answers the telephone call from the first user, an image inside a head of the image that represents the second user, wherein selection by the second user of the image inside the head of the image that represents the second user causes the voice of the first user to change from the binaural sound to one of stereo sound and mono sound.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the image that represents the first user has an azimuth angle with respect to the image that represents the second user with the azimuth angle being extracted from the coordinates of the HRTFs.
</claims>
</document>
