<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Netz Forecasts Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTSHULER, YANIV
GORDON, GOREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69719851
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for secure prediction using an encrypted query executed based on encrypted data
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a method for computing an encrypted prediction in response to an encrypted query, comprising: obtaining an encrypted dataset comprising encrypted records for respective encrypted entities, each record storing encrypted parameter values of parameters and an associated indication of the respective entity, computing abnormality clusters according to the records of the encrypted dataset, wherein each of the abnormality clusters stores indications of entities of records of the encrypted dataset having mathematically significant common abnormal feature(s) that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset, receiving a query comprising target indications of respective target entities associated with common feature(s), and analyzing the query according to the abnormality clusters to identify at least one encrypted result entity indication according to a likelihood of the encrypted result entity indication predicted to correlate to the common feature(s) at a future time interval.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for computing an encrypted prediction in response to an encrypted query, comprising: obtaining an encrypted dataset comprising a plurality of encrypted records for respective plurality of encrypted entities, each record storing encrypted parameter values of parameters and an associated indication of the respective entity; computing a plurality of abnormality clusters according to the records of the encrypted dataset, wherein each of the plurality of abnormality clusters stores indications of entities of records of the encrypted dataset having at least one mathematically significant common abnormal feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset; receiving a query comprising a plurality of target indications of respective target entities associated with at least one common feature; analyzing the query according to the abnormality clusters to identify at least one encrypted result entity indication according to a likelihood of the encrypted result entity indication predicted to correlate to the at least one common feature at a future time interval; and providing, in response to the query, the at least one encrypted result entity indication.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein an automated process for execution in association with user accounts corresponding to respective at least one result entity indications is in response to receiving the at least one encrypted result entity indication.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein the automated process is executed by a client terminal that provided the query and that received the response to the query.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: receiving a plurality of encrypted search records for respective plurality of encrypted search entities, each search record storing encrypted search parameter values of search parameters and an associated indication of the respective encrypted search entity; adding the encrypted search records to the encrypted dataset to create an aggregated encrypted dataset storing an aggregation of records, wherein the encrypted search records are tagged for identification thereof; wherein the plurality of abnormality clusters are computed according to the aggregation of records of the aggregated encrypted dataset; wherein the query is analyzed according to the abnormality clusters to identify at least one encrypted search entity.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the records of the encrypted dataset are associated with a timestamp within a historical time interval, wherein the encrypted search records are associated with a timestamp within the historical time interval, wherein the query includes target indications of respective target entities associated with at least one common feature associated with a timestamp within the historical time interval, wherein the at least one encrypted result entity indication is predicted to correlate to the at least one common feature at the future time interval.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the abnormality clusters do not store encrypted parameter values.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the abnormality clusters only store indications of entities.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one encrypted result entity indication does not correlate to the at least one common feature at a current and historical time interval prior to the future time interval.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the abnormality clusters are computed according to different unique combinations of mathematically significant common abnormal features that statistically differentiate records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mathematically significant common abnormality feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset is selected from the group consisting of: based on social physics laws, mathematical invariance, and graph-theoretic calculations.
11. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: computing a multidimensional space according to candidate values of a plurality of sets of rules and/or mathematical functions; defining an abnormality region of the multidimensional space denoting abnormalities that violate the plurality of sets of rules and/or mathematical functions, the abnormality region denoting the at least one mathematically significant common abnormal features; mapping the records of the encrypted dataset into the multidimensional space by evaluating the records according to the plurality of sets of rules and/or mathematical functions; wherein the abnormality clusters are computed by clustering records mapped to the abnormality region of the multidimensional space.
12. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mathematically significant common abnormality feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset comprises: an abnormality requirement of a plurality of set of rules and/or a plurality of mathematical function, wherein the abnormality clusters are computed according to entity indications corresponding to records evaluated by the set of rules and/or at least one mathematical function that meet the abnormality requirement.
13. The method according to claim 12, wherein the abnormality clusters are computed according to entity indications corresponding to records that violate the set of rules and/or a plurality of mathematical function according to the abnormality requirement.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein the abnormality requirement is selected to exclude noise from the abnormality cluster.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the abnormality requirement is selected to exclude improbably normal records having extreme values from the abnormality cluster.
16. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mathematically significant common feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset comprises: calculation of a degree-distribution of sub-graphs generated from the records of the encrypted dataset, wherein nodes of each sub-graph represent respective entities of the records, wherein according to a mathematical invariance the sub-graphs degree-distribution obeys a scale-free power-law; identifying abnormal sub-graphs that violate the scale-free power-law degree-distribution; and creating the abnormality clusters according to the indication of entities of the records of each respective abnormal sub-graph.
17. The method according to claim 1, wherein abnormality clusters overlap by including a same entity indication as a member of each of the overlapping abnormality clusters.
18. The method according to claim 1, wherein the analyzing of the query according to the abnormality clusters is performed by: identifying a plurality of candidate abnormality clusters each having at least one matching entity indication that matches the target entity indication of the query; computing a score for each unique non-matching entity indication of the plurality of candidate abnormality clusters, the score indicative of a number of matching entity indications in the candidate abnormality clusters in which the respective unique non-matching entity indication is a member thereof; and providing at least one of the unique non-matching entity indications according to a ranking of the score thereof.
19. The method according to claim 1, wherein the analyzing of the query according to the abnormality clusters is performed by: identifying a plurality of candidate abnormality clusters each having at least one matching entity indication that matches the target entity indication of the query; computing a score for each unique non-matching entity indication of the plurality of candidate abnormality clusters, the score indicative of a number of candidate abnormality clusters in which the respective unique non-matching entity indication is a member thereof that include at least one matching entity indications; and providing at least one of the unique non-matching entity indications according to a ranking of the score thereof.
20. The method according to claim 1, wherein the encrypted dataset and the abnormality clusters are stored on distinct storage devices.
21. The method according to claim 1, wherein access to the encrypted dataset is blocked upon creation of the abnormality clusters.
22. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of entities are associated with a plurality of user accounts, and the encrypted parameter values are computed based on interactive actions performed by the plurality of user accounts.
23. The method according to claim 22, wherein the plurality of entities and corresponding plurality of encrypted parameter values are selected from the group consisting of: user accounts and transactions between user accounts, user social network accounts and interactive actions performed between social network accounts, financial user accounts and financial transfers between financial user accounts, blockchain user accounts and blockchain transactions between blockchain user accounts, user phone accounts and call data records between phones, user network login accounts and computer network access logs, and user email addresses and email messages sent between user email addresses.
24. The method according to claim 22, wherein the plurality of encrypted parameter values further comprise additional data of a user associated with the respective user account.
25. The method according to claim 24, wherein the additional data includes demographic data of the user.
26. The method according to claim 22, wherein the plurality of encrypted parameter values further comprise a value indicative of a transaction between user accounts.
27. The method according to claim 1, wherein metadata stored in the encrypted dataset indicative of a respective parameter for each respective parameter value is encrypted.
28. The method according to claim 1, wherein the parameter values are encrypted according to an encryption process that maps a same value to a same encrypted target.
29. The method according to claim 1, wherein indication of entities of the records clustered into abnormality clusters are encrypted.
30. The method according to claim 1, wherein the encrypted dataset is created by aggregation of a plurality of encrypted sub-datasets, each comprising respective records including a respective combination of encrypted parameter values for a respective plurality of entities.
31. The method according to claim 30, wherein each encrypted sub-dataset is encrypted with a respective unique encryption process, the encrypted dataset comprising parameter values encrypted with a plurality of respective unique encryption processes.
32. The method according to claim 1, further comprising filtering the abnormality clusters based on encrypted parameters of the parameter values to generate a sub-set of statistically unbiased abnormality clusters that adhere to predefined statistical thresholds indicative of unbiased data, wherein the query is analyzed according to the statistically unbiased abnormality clusters to provide at least one encrypted result entity indication that is statistically unbiased with respect to a random distribution.
33. The method according to claim 32, further comprising: computing at least one statistical value for at least one parameter corresponding to each abnormality cluster according to the encrypted parameter values of the respective abnormality cluster, selecting at least one parameter according to the at least one statistical value; and wherein filtering comprises filtering the abnormality clusters according to the corresponding selected at least one parameter, wherein the provided at least one encrypted result entity indication is statistically unbiased with respect to the selected at least one parameter.
34. The method according to claim 33, wherein the at least one statistical value is stored independently from the abnormality clusters.
35. The method according to claim 33, wherein the at least one statistical value computed for each at least one parameter comprises a frequency and/or distribution of the encrypted parameter values of the records of the corresponding respective abnormality cluster.
36. The method according to claim 33, wherein the sub-set of statistically unbiased abnormality clusters are selected from the abnormality clusters according to a probability that a distributed of encrypted parameter values of the selected at least one parameter is statistically similar to an expected random distribution of the selected at least one parameter.
37. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: iteratively obtaining additional encrypted records, adding the additional encrypted records to the encrypted dataset, and iteratively computing the abnormality clusters.
38. The method according to claim 1, wherein the abnormality clusters are computed directly according to raw data stored in the encrypted dataset without pre-processing of the raw data.
39. The method according to claim 38, wherein pre-processing of the raw data includes at least one member of the group consisting of: sanitation, normalization, and noise removal.
40. A system for computing an encrypted prediction in response to an encrypted query, comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory memory having stored thereon a code for execution by the at least one hardware processor, the code comprising instructions for: obtaining an encrypted dataset comprising a plurality of encrypted records for respective plurality of encrypted entities, each record storing encrypted parameter values of parameters and an associated indication of the respective entity, computing a plurality of abnormality clusters according to the records of the encrypted dataset, wherein each of the plurality of abnormality clusters stores indications of entities of records of the encrypted dataset having at least one mathematically significant common abnormal feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset, receiving a query comprising a plurality of target indications of respective target entities associated with at least one common feature, analyzing the query according to the abnormality clusters to identify at least one encrypted result entity indication according to a likelihood of the encrypted result entity indication predicted to correlate to the at least one common feature at a future time interval, and providing, in response to the query, the at least one encrypted result entity indication.
41. A computer program product for computing an encrypted prediction in response to an encrypted query, comprising: a non-transitory memory having stored thereon a code for execution by at least one hardware processor, the code comprising instructions for: obtaining an encrypted dataset comprising a plurality of encrypted records for respective plurality of encrypted entities, each record storing encrypted parameter values of parameters and an associated indication of the respective entity; computing a plurality of abnormality clusters according to the records of the encrypted dataset, wherein each of the plurality of abnormality clusters stores indications of entities of records of the encrypted dataset having at least one mathematically significant common abnormal feature that statistically differentiates records of the respective abnormality cluster from other records of the encrypted dataset; receiving a query comprising a plurality of target indications of respective target entities associated with at least one common feature; analyzing the query according to the abnormality clusters to identify at least one encrypted result entity indication according to a likelihood of the encrypted result entity indication predicted to correlate to the at least one common feature at a future time interval; and providing, in response to the query, the at least one encrypted result entity indication.
</claims>
</document>
