<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B1/00,A61B1/04,A61B1/06,G06K9/46,G06K9/52,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GIVEN IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
PELEG, DORI
HAKUK, YARON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59066324
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for detecting anomalies in an image captured in-vivo using color histogram association
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for detecting an anomaly in an image from a set of images captured in vivo by an in-vivo imaging system may include, for each pixel of the image, associating the pixel with a color histogram value from a color histogram database; determining, for each pixel, whether the color histogram value associated with the pixel exceeds a histogram value threshold; assigning a pixel status to each pixel indicating whether the pixel is anomalous or normal; identifying one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels, the one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels each having a pixel size that exceeds a pixel size threshold; generating, using at least the one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels, a binary mask for the image; and determining an image anomaly score for the image based at least in part on the binary mask.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting an anomaly in an image from a set of images captured in vivo by an in-vivo imaging system, performed on a computer having a processor, a memory, and one or more code sets stored in the memory and executing in the processor, the method comprising: for each pixel of the image, associating the pixel, by the processor, with a color histogram value from a color histogram database, wherein the color histogram database includes color histogram values, each indicative of a likelihood of a particular color to appear in an image captured in vivo based on a color analysis of one or more sets of in vivo images previously taken by an in vivo imaging system; assigning, by the processor, a pixel status for each pixel of the image indicating whether the pixel is anomalous or normal, wherein the pixel status is determined by comparing the color histogram value to a histogram value threshold and wherein the histogram value threshold is determined based on said color histogram database; identifying in the image, by the processor, one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels; and providing a user, by the processor, with a result based on one or more images of said set of images captured in-vivo in which at least one group of adjacent anomalous pixels was identified, thereby indicating to the user in vivo areas suspected as having an anomaly.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the color histogram database is a representation of a prevalence of {R,G,B} color values in the one or more sets of the previously taken in vivo images.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein a given color histogram value is a representation of a prevalence of a particular combination of {R,G,B} color values in the one or more sets of previously taken in vivo images; and wherein the given color histogram value is associated with the given pixel based on the particular combination of {R,G,B} color values which make up the given pixel color in the in vivo image.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the pixel status of each pixel is indicated as a binary value.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein each of the one or more identified groups of adjacent anomalous pixels is of a pixel size that exceeds a pixel size threshold.
6. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the processor, using at least the one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels, a binary mask for the image; and determining, by the processor, an image anomaly score for the image based at least in part on the binary mask, wherein said result referring to one or more images is based on said image anomaly score of said one or more images.
7. The method as in claim 6, wherein the image anomaly score is determined based on a pixel size of the binary mask of the image and a mean histogram value of one or more pixels in the binary mask.
8. The method as in claim 6, further comprising generating an anomaly score image based on the correlated histogram value of each pixel in the image, and the binary mask.
9. The method as in claim 8, further comprising: for a set of generated anomaly score images, selecting, by the processor, a subset of the anomaly score images with the highest image anomaly scores; wherein the providing of the result comprises displaying the subset of anomaly score images to the user or adding them to a set of images displayed to the user.
10. The method as in claim 1, wherein the set of images is captured while the in-vivo imaging system moves through the gastrointestinal system.
11. The method as in claim 1, wherein the color histogram database represents prevalence of colors that appear in the previously taken one or more sets of images, and wherein the previously taken one or more sets of images were taken inside the gastrointestinal system.
12. The method as in claim 1, further comprising generating the color histogram database based on said one or more sets of previously taken in vivo images.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising updating the color histogram database with additional images.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the generating of the color histogram database further comprises assigning values representing non-anomalous colors to false-alarm anomalous colors which are unique to certain phenomena.
15. The method as in claim 1, further comprising setting the histogram value threshold to distinguish normal colors from anomalous colors.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the images of the one or more sets of previously taken in vivo images are normal images of healthy tissue.
17. A system for detecting an anomaly in an image from a set of images captured in vivo by an in-vivo imaging system, comprising: a processor; a memory; and one or more code sets stored in the memory and executing in the processor, which, when executed, configure the processor to: for each pixel of the image, associate the pixel with a color histogram value from a color histogram database, wherein the color histogram database includes color histogram values, each indicative of a likelihood of a particular color to appear in an image captured in vivo based on a color analysis of one or more sets of in vivo images previously taken by an in vivo imaging system; assign a pixel status for each pixel of the image indicating whether the pixel is anomalous or normal, wherein the pixel status is determined by comparing the color histogram value to a histogram value threshold and wherein the histogram value threshold is determined based on said color histogram database; identify in the image one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels; and provide a user with a result based on one or more images of said set of images captured in-vivo in which at least one group of adjacent anomalous pixels was identified, thereby indicating to the user in vivo areas suspected as having an anomaly.
18. The system as in claim 17, wherein the color histogram database is a representation of a prevalence of {R,G,B} color values in the one or more sets of the previously taken in vivo images.
19. The system as in claim 17, wherein a given color histogram value is a representation of a prevalence of a particular combination of {R,G,B} color values in the one or more sets of previously taken in vivo images; and wherein a given color histogram value is associated with a given pixel based on the particular combination of {R,G,B} color values which make up the given pixel color in the in vivo image.
20. The system as in claim 17, wherein the pixel status of each pixel is indicated by a binary value.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the images of the one or more sets of previously taken in vivo images are normal images of healthy tissue.
22. The system of claim 17, wherein the code, when executed, configures the processor to: generate using at least the one or more groups of adjacent anomalous pixels, a binary mask for the image; and determine an image anomaly score for the image based at least in part on the binary mask.
23. The system as in claim 22, wherein the one or more code sets further configure the processor to determine the image anomaly score based on a pixel size of the binary mask of the image and a mean histogram value of one or more pixels in the binary mask.
24. The system as in claim 22, wherein the one or more code sets further configure the processor to: generate an anomaly score image based on the correlated histogram value of each pixel in the image, and the binary mask.
25. The system as in claim 24, wherein the one or more code sets further configure the processor to: for a set of generated anomaly score images, select a subset of the anomaly score images with the highest image anomaly scores wherein the providing of the result comprises displaying the subset of anomaly score images to the user or adding them to a set of images displayed to the user.
</claims>
</document>
