<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F17/27,G06F17/28,G06F17/30,G06F3/048,G06F40/279,G06F40/56,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/02,G10L15/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BANERJEE, JAY
CHOUDHURY, PALLAVI
DOLAN, BILL
HENDRICH, SUSAN
MASON, REBECCA
MITCHELL, MARGARET
OWENS, RON
REDDY, MOUNI
SONG, YAXIAO
TOUTANOVA, KRISTINA
XU, LIANG
YIN, XUETAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54064633
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sentiment-based recommendations as a function of grounding factors associated with a user
</title>

<abstract>
A "Facet Recommender" creates conversational recommendations for facets of particular conversational topics, and optionally for things associated with those facets, from consumer reviews or other social media content. The Facet Recommender applies a machine-learned facet model and optional sentiment-model, to identify facets associated with spans or segments of the content and to determine neutral, positive, or negative consumer sentiment associated with those facets and, optionally, things associated with those facets. These facets are selected by the facet model from a list or set of manually defined or machine-learned facets for particular conversational topic types. The Facet Recommender then generates new conversational utterances (i.e., short neutral, positive or negative suggestions) about particular facets based on the sentiments associated with those facets. In various implementations, utterances are fit to one or more predefined conversational frameworks. Further, responses or suggestions provided as utterances may be personalized to individual users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented process, comprising: receiving a machine-learned facet model; the machine-learned facet model automatically generated by applying one or more automated machine-learning processes to a plurality of examples of training data to train the machine-learned facet model; the plurality of examples of training data comprising a plurality of automatically clustered and labeled instances of sentiment vocabulary extracted from sentiment bearing content; applying the machine-learned facet model to evaluate a plurality of samples of sentiment-bearing content to identify conversational topics and facets associated those conversational topics; identifying one or more of the facets that have a consensus based on two or more samples of the sentiment-bearing content; generating, from a combination of one or more of the identified facets and one or more current grounding factors associated with a user, a plurality of sentiment-based recommendations about one or more of the identified facets; and presenting one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations to the user.
2. The computer-implemented process of claim 1 wherein presenting one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations further comprises changing a visual appearance of existing content to indicate a type of sentiment associated with one or more corresponding facets identified in the existing content.
3. The computer-implemented process of claim 1 further comprising determining a relevancy of one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations to the user.
4. The computer-implemented process of claim 3 wherein relevancy of conversational utterances is determined as a response to a user query input.
5. The computer-implemented process of claim 3 wherein relevancy of conversational utterances is determined as a response to the current grounding factors associated with the user.
6. The computer-implemented process of claim 3 wherein relevancy of conversational utterances is determined as a response to a user profile associated with a user.
7. The computer-implemented process of claim 1 further comprising: generating a plurality of conversational utterances about one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations; and outputting one or more of the conversational utterances via one or more output devices.
8. The computer-implemented process of claim 7, further comprising rendering a digital avatar to output one or more of the conversational utterances.
9. The computer-implemented process of claim 8 further comprising a user interface for modifying of one or more features of the digital avatar.
10. The computer-implemented process of claim 1 wherein the grounding factors further comprise any combination of one or more of weather, time of day, local traffic, local noise levels, geographic location, geographic views, video content, user history, user profile, and current user circumstances.
11. A system, comprising: a general purpose computing device; and a computer program executable by the computing device, wherein the computing device is directed by the computer program to: receive a machine-learned facet model trained on a plurality of examples of training data; the plurality of examples of training data comprising a plurality of automatically clustered and labeled instances of sentiment vocabulary extracted from sentiment bearing content; apply the machine-learned facet model to sentiment-bearing content to identify and label facets for each conversational topic associated with those facets, and to identify corresponding sentiments; generate a plurality of sentiment-based recommendations about one or more of the identified facets that have a consensus; and generate multiple sentiment-based recommendations that are consistent with the identified corresponding sentiments and that are further consistent with one or more grounding factors associated with a user; and present one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations to the used.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein presenting one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations further comprises automatically changing a visual appearance of existing content to indicate a type of sentiment associated with one or more corresponding facets identified in the existing content.
13. The system of claim 11 wherein presenting one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations further comprises: determining a relevancy to the user of one or more of the sentiment-based recommendations; and presenting the one or more sentiment-based recommendations based on the determination of relevancy to the user.
14. The system of claim 11 wherein the grounding factors further comprise any combination of one or more of weather, time of day, local traffic, local noise levels, geographic location, geographic views, video content, user history, user profile, and current user circumstances.
15. The system of claim 11 further comprising: populating multiple conversational utterances by fitting one or more labelled facets into one or more conversational frameworks that are consistent with the identified corresponding sentiments; and presenting one or more of the conversational utterances to the user via one or more output devices.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein one or more of the selected conversational utterances is presented via a combined audio and video display of a digital avatar having a user-selected personality type.
17. A portable computing device comprising: a memory configured to store a computer program; and a processing unit configured to execute the computer program, thereby causing the computing device to: receive a machine-learned facet model automatically generated by applying one or more automated machine-learning processes to a plurality of examples of training data comprising a plurality of automatically clustered and labeled instances of sentiment vocabulary extracted from sentiment bearing content; apply the machine-learned facet model to identify conversational topics and facets associated with one or more segments of a plurality of samples of sentiment-bearing content; determine a consensus for one or more identified facets, the consensus for each facet being based on two or more samples of the sentiment-bearing content; generate a plurality of recommendations about one or more of the identified facets, each of the recommendations being consistent with the corresponding consensus and further being consistent with one or more grounding factors associated with a user; identify one or more of the recommendations that are relevant to a user; and present one or more of the relevant recommendations to the user in the form of a conversational utterance provided via a combined audio and video display of a digital avatar.
18. The portable computing device of claim 17 further comprising presenting one or more of the relevant recommendations by automatically changing a visual appearance of existing content to indicate a type of sentiment associated with one or more corresponding facets identified in the existing content.
19. The portable computing device of claim 17 further comprising: generating a plurality of conversational utterances about one or more of the identified facets, each of the conversational utterances being consistent with the corresponding consensus; and wherein one or more of the conversational utterances are fit to one or more predefined linguistic styles.
20. The portable computing device of claim 17 wherein the grounding factors further comprise any combination of one or more of weather, time of day, local traffic, local noise levels, geographic location, geographic views, video content, user history, user profile, and current user circumstances.
</claims>
</document>
