<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06T7/13,G06T7/70,H04N5/247
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIDEA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU QIANG
FAWAZ, BASSAM
DIGMAN, ROBERT M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72514444
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dishwasher with cloud connected cameras
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for monitoring dish ware position and modifying the wash and dry cycle of a dishwasher by capturing and analyzing image data utilizing a plurality of cloud-connected cameras.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for sensing and monitoring the location and arrangement of dish ware on at least one rack inside the cavity of a dishwasher to modify a wash cycle, the system comprising: a processor and concomitant data memory, the processor having a plurality of inputs and outputs for receiving and providing electrical signals to a plurality of electrical components of the dishwasher; a user interface operatively coupled to the processor for accepting inputs from a user and providing dishwasher cycle selections to a user; a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) sensor disposed within the dishwasher cavity for capturing images of the dish ware, the LIDAR sensor having a data imaging output representative of surface characteristics of the dish ware operatively coupled to an input of the processor; and a communications interface operatively coupled to the processor that enables electronic communications from the processor to a remote server having an imaging data analysis system for analyzing the images to determine the position and composition of dish ware based on the imaging data, the communications interface further configured to receive electronic communications from the remote server to the processor from which wash cycle instructions are executed by the processor based upon the determined position and composition of dish ware.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a gantry disposed within the dishwasher cavity and having the LIDAR sensor secured to a movable portion thereof, wherein the processor is coupled to the gantry to control movement of the LIDAR sensor to a plurality of locations to capture images at the plurality of locations prior to and/or during the wash cycle.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to alert a user via the user interface of an overturned item of dish ware in an orientation capable of collecting water that is detected from at least one image captured by the LIDAR sensor.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the image data analysis system is configured to detect the overturned item of dish ware in the orientation capable of collecting water from at least one of the images.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the image data analysis system is configured to detect the overturned item of dish ware in the orientation capable of collecting water by comparing one or more images taken prior to the wash cycle with one or more subsequent images taken during wash cycle operation.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the communications interface is configured to receive the wash cycle instructions from the remote server.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine the wash cycle instructions based upon the electronic communications from the remote server.
8. A system for sensing and monitoring the location and arrangement of dish ware on at least one rack inside the cavity of a dishwasher to modify a wash cycle, the system comprising: a processor and concomitant data memory, the processor having a plurality of inputs and outputs for receiving and providing electrical signals to a plurality of electrical components of the dishwasher; a user interface operatively coupled to the processor for accepting inputs from a user and providing dishwasher cycle selections to a user; a sensor disposed within the dishwasher cavity for capturing images of the dish ware, the sensor having a data imaging output representative of the dish ware operatively coupled to an input of the processor; a gantry disposed within the dishwasher cavity and having the sensor secured to a movable portion thereof, wherein the processor is coupled to the gantry to control movement of the sensor to a plurality of locations to capture images at the plurality of locations prior to and/or during the wash cycle; and a communications interface operatively coupled to the processor that enables electronic communications from the processor to a remote server having an imaging data analysis system for analyzing the images to determine the position and composition of dish ware based on the imaging data, the communications interface further configured to receive electronic communications from the remote server to the processor from which wash cycle instructions are executed by the processor based upon the determined position and composition of dish ware.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to alert a user via the user interface of an overturned item of dish ware in an orientation capable of collecting water that is detected from at least one image captured by the sensor.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the sensor is a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) sensor having a data imaging output representative of surface characteristics of the dish ware.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the gantry is disposed horizontally in the dishwasher cavity.
12. A system for sensing and monitoring the location and arrangement of dish ware on at least one rack inside the cavity of a dishwasher to modify a wash cycle, the system comprising: a processor and concomitant data memory, the processor having a plurality of inputs and outputs for receiving and providing electrical signals to a plurality of electrical components of the dishwasher; a user interface operatively coupled to the processor for accepting inputs from a user and providing dishwasher cycle selections to a user; and a sensor disposed within the dishwasher cavity for capturing images of the dish ware, the sensor having a data imaging output representative of the dish ware operatively coupled to an input of the processor; wherein the processor is further configured to alert a user via the user interface of an overturned item of dish ware in an orientation capable of collecting water that is detected from at least one image captured by the sensor.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the sensor is a Light Detection and Ranging (LIDAR) sensor having a data imaging output representative of surface characteristics of the dish ware, wherein the overturned item of dish ware is detected in the orientation capable of collecting water based upon from at least one image captured by the LIDAR sensor.
14. The system of claim 12, further comprising a gantry disposed within the dishwasher cavity and having the sensor secured to a movable portion thereof, wherein the processor is coupled to the gantry to control movement of the sensor to a plurality of locations to capture images at the plurality of locations prior to and/or during the wash cycle.
15. The system of claim 12, further comprising a communications interface operatively coupled to the processor that enables electronic communications from the processor to a remote server having an imaging data analysis system for analyzing the images to determine the position and composition of the dish ware based on the imaging data, the communications interface further configured to receive electronic communications from the remote server to the processor.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the image data analysis system is configured to detect the overturned item of dish ware in the orientation capable of collecting water from at least one of the images.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the image data analysis system is configured to detect the overturned item of dish ware in the orientation capable of collecting water by comparing one or more images taken prior to the wash cycle with one or more subsequent images taken during wash cycle operation.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the image data analysis system is configured to identify a predetermined type of dish ware by material.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the analysis system comprises a deep learning algorithm.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to pause the wash cycle when the overturned item of dish ware in the orientation capable of collecting water is detected.
</claims>
</document>
