<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/00,B25J9/16,B65D5/00,B65D5/42,B65G1/137,G05B19/418,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BERKSHIRE GREY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, THOMAS
VELAGAPUDI, PRASANNA
KOLETSCHKA, THOMAS
MASON, MATTHEW T.
WAGNER, THOMAS
DAWSON-HAGGERTY, MICHAEL
COHEN, BENJAMIN
GEYER, CHRISTOPHER
MARONEY, KYLE
HINCHEY, VICTORIA
PRICE, GENE TEMPLE
SRINIVASA, SIDDHARTHA
AHEARN, KEVIN
SMITH, DANIEL
ROMANO, JOSEPH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66092389
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for processing objects, including automated re-circulating processing stations
</title>

<abstract>
A method of processing objects using a programmable motion device is disclosed. The method includes the steps of providing an input conveyance system by which input bins of objects may be provided to a processing station that includes the programmable motion device that includes an end effector, perceiving at the processing station identifying indicia representative of an identity of a plurality of objects at an input area of the input conveyance system, grasping the an acquired object using the end effector, moving the acquired object toward an identified processing container using the programmable motion device, the identified processing container being associated with the identifying indicia and said identified processing container being provided as one of a plurality of processing containers at the processing station, and providing an output conveyance system in communication with the processing station, by which processing containers that contain processed objects may be provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of processing objects using a programmable motion device, comprising: transporting a source container on an input conveyance system having an input area at a processing station, the processing station including an inner processing conveyor and an outer processing conveyor disposed adjacent and in parallel on at least one side of a programmable motion device that includes an end effector; transporting a plurality of processing containers to the inner processing conveyor and the outer processing conveyor of the processing station; perceiving at the processing station identifying indicia representative of an identity of a plurality of objects in the source container at the input area of the input conveyance system; grasping an object from the source container using the end effector; identifying a processing container that is associated with the identifying indicia from among the plurality of processing containers; moving the object into the identified processing container on the inner processing conveyor using the programmable motion device moving the identified processing container from the inner processing conveyor to the outer processing conveyor of the processing station using the programmable motion device; and transporting the identified processing container out of the processing station from the outer processing conveyor onto a processing container conveyance system.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the processing station further includes a second inner processing conveyor and a second outer processing conveyor disposed adjacent and in parallel on an opposite side of the programmable motion device in parallel with the inner processing conveyor and the outer processing conveyor.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein further transporting the identified processing container out of the processing station on the processing container conveyance system to one or more other processing stations.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising moving the identified processing container from the outer processing conveyor to the inner processing conveyor using a box kicker system.
5. The method as claimed in claim 2, moving another processing container from the second inner processing conveyor to the second outer processing conveyor using the programmable motion device.
6. The method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising moving another processing container from the second outer processing conveyor to the second inner processing conveyor using a box kicker system.
7. The method as claimed in claim 4, wherein the identified processing container is moved from the outer processing conveyor to the inner processing conveyor before the programmable motion device moves the object into the identified processing container.
8. The method as claimed in claim 7, further comprising: transporting the identified processing container out of each processing station from the outer processing conveyor to an output conveyance system.
9. The method as claimed in claim 7, further comprising: transporting the identified processing container from the outer processing conveyor to one or more other processing stations among the plurality of processing stations.
10. A method of processing objects using a plurality of programmable motion devices, comprising: transporting a plurality of source containers on an input conveyance system having an input area at each of a plurality of processing stations, each processing station including an inner processing conveyor and an outer processing conveyor disposed adjacent and in parallel on at least one side of a programmable motion device that includes an end effector for grasping an object; transporting a plurality of processing containers to the inner processing conveyor and the outer processing conveyor of each processing station from at least one processing container conveyance system; perceiving, at each processing station, identifying indicia representative of an identity of a plurality of objects in a source container at each input area of the input conveyance system; grasping, at each processing station, an object from the source container using the end effector of the programmable motion device; identifying, at each processing station, a processing container that is associated with the identifying indicia from among the plurality of processing containers; moving, at each processing station, the identified processing container from the outer processing conveyor to the inner processing conveyor before the programmable motion device moves the object into the identified processing container; moving, at each processing station, the object into the identified processing container on the inner processing conveyor using the programmable motion device; and moving, at each processing station, the identified processing container from the inner processing conveyor to the output processing conveyor using the programmable motion device.
11. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein perceiving the identity of the plurality of objects includes perceiving indicia on one of the plurality of objects.
12. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein perceiving the identity of the plurality of objects includes perceiving indicia on the source container containing the plurality of objects.
13. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein identifying the plurality of objects occurs while the source container is being transported on the input conveyance system.
14. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the input area includes a processing station input in communication with the input conveyance system, and wherein identifying the plurality of objects occurs when the source container is received at the processing station input.
15. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein each of the plurality of source containers includes a plurality of different objects.
16. The method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising determining a grasp location of the object to be acquired from the plurality of objects at the input area.
17. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the at least a portion of the input conveyance system is positioned below a portion of the at least one processing container conveyance system at one or more of the plurality of processing stations.
18. The method as claimed in claim 10, further comprising dynamically assigning an identity assignment to each processing container according to a manifest.
19. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the input conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
20. The method as claimed in claim 19, wherein the at least one processing container conveyance system includes at least two output conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
21. The method as claimed in claim 10, wherein the at least one processing container conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
22. The method as claimed in claim 21, wherein the input conveyance system includes at least two input conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
23. A method of processing objects using a plurality of programmable motion devices, further comprising: transporting a plurality of source containers on an input conveyance system having an input area at each of a plurality of processing stations, each processing station including a plurality of processing conveyors and a programmable motion device that includes an end effector for grasping an object, wherein the plurality of processing conveyors includes an inner processing conveyor and an outer processing conveyor disposed adjacent and in parallel on both sides of the programmable motion device; and transporting processing containers between each processing station and a processing container conveyance system using the outer processing conveyors, at least one of the input conveyance system and the being provided as a loop; wherein the method further comprises at each processing station: perceiving identifying indicia representative of an identity of a plurality of objects in a source container received at the input area of the input conveyance system; moving one or more identified processing containers associated with the identifying indicia transversely from at least one of the outer processing conveyors to at least one of the inner processing conveyors; moving one or more objects into the one or more identified processing containers on the at least one inner processing conveyor using the programmable motion device; moving the one or more identified processing containers from the at least one inner processing conveyor to an adjacent outer processing conveyor using the programmable motion device; and transporting the one or more identified processing containers on the adjacent outer processing conveyor out of the processing station onto the processing container conveyance system to one or more other processing stations among the plurality of processing stations.
24. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein perceiving the identity of the plurality of objects includes perceiving indicia on one of the plurality of objects.
25. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein perceiving the identity of the plurality of objects includes perceiving indicia on the source container containing the plurality of objects.
26. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein identifying the plurality of objects occurs while the source container is being transported on the input conveyance system.
27. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the input area includes a processing station input in communication with the input conveyance system, and wherein identifying the plurality of objects occurs when the source container is received at the processing station input.
28. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein each of the plurality of source containers includes a plurality of different objects.
29. The method as claimed in claim 23, further comprising determining a grasp location of the object to be acquired from the plurality of objects at the input area.
30. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein at least a portion of the input conveyance system is positioned below a portion of the processing container conveyance system at one or more of the plurality of processing stations.
31. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the input conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
32. The method as claimed in claim 31, wherein the processing container conveyance system includes at least two output conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
33. The method as claimed in claim 23, wherein the output conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
34. The method as claimed in claim 33, wherein the input conveyance system includes at least two input conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
35. The method as claimed in claim 33, further comprising dynamically assigning an identity assignment to each processing container according to a manifest.
36. A processing system for processing objects using a programmable motion device, said processing system comprising: a plurality of processing stations, each processing station including a programmable motion device that includes an end effector for grasping an object; an input conveyance system having an input area at each of the plurality of processing stations, wherein the input conveyance system selective transports a plurality of source containers to the input area at one or more of the plurality of processing stations; each processing station further including a perception unit for perceiving identifying indicia representative of an identity of a plurality of objects in a source container received at the input area of the input conveyance system; each processing station further including an inner processing conveyor and an outer processing conveyor disposed adjacent and in parallel on at least one side of the programmable motion device for providing a plurality of processing containers to the programmable motion device; a controller that identifies one or more processing containers that are associated with the identifying indicia from among the plurality of processing containers; and an output conveyance system in communication with the outer processing conveyor at each processing station for transporting any of the plurality of processing containers that contain processed objects out of the processing station, wherein any of the one or more identified processing containers on the outer processing container are moved transversely from the outer processing container to the inner processing conveyor adjacent to the programmable motion device, and wherein any of the plurality of processing containers on the inner processing container that are not associated with the identifying indicia are moved transversely from the inner processing conveyor to the outer processing conveyor away from the programmable motion device, and wherein the end effector of the programmable motion device moves an object from the source container at the input area of the input conveyance system into any of the one or more identified processing containers on the inner processing conveyor.
37. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein at least a portion of the input conveyance system is positioned below a portion of the output conveyance system.
38. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein the identified processing container is provided as a box tray assembly.
39. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein the programmable motion device is actuatable to push any of the plurality of processing containers on the inner processing conveyor transversely to the outer processing conveyor away from the programmable motion device.
40. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, further comprising a box kicker system that includes a rotatable arm that moves along the length of the outer processing conveyor and is actuatable to push any of the plurality of processing containers on the outer processing conveyor transversely to the inner processing conveyor adjacent to the programmable motion device.
41. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein the input conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
42. The processing system as claimed in claim 41, wherein the output conveyance system includes at least two output conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
43. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein the output conveyance system is provided as a loop, with the processing stations located outside of the loop.
44. The processing system as claimed in claim 43, wherein the input conveyance system includes at least two input conveyors positioned outside of the processing stations.
45. The processing system as claimed in claim 36, wherein the input area includes a processing station input in communication with the input conveyance system, and wherein the perception unit is positioned over the processing station input.
46. The processing system as claimed in claim 45, wherein each of the plurality of source containers includes a plurality of different objects.
</claims>
</document>
