<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/904,G06F16/907,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0483,G06F3/0484,G06F40/106,G06F40/186,G06F9/451,G06F9/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIVNE, EYAL
LEVY NIR
SHAHAR-KASHTAN, AVNER
SCHWARTZ, ELI
ARBEL, ELI
KANTOR, IRIT SHALOM
FOYNES, MICHAEL ANDREW
VAKALUK, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68236454
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Interactive event creation control console
</title>

<abstract>
Interactive event creation control consoles are provided to facilitate the creation of events from a plurality of different content sources. In some instances, the event creation control consoles include two different frames, a content source frame for selecting content for corresponding content tiles and an event creation frame for identifying the content tiles to be published in an event canvas associated with a particular event and which is published differently on different end user systems based on the contextual event role of the end user and/or the different end user system configurations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage medium having stored executable instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, for causing the computer system to implement a method for providing an interactive event creation control console to create a sharable event, the method comprising: the computer system presenting an interactive event creation control console with a content source frame and an event creation frame, the content source frame having at least one particular tile with selected content, the selected content from a first content source having been associated with the at least one particular tile; the computer system receiving user input for placing the at least one particular content tile in the event creation frame; the computer system updating the event creation frame with one or more selected content tiles from the content source frame, including the at least one particular content tile; and the computer system publishing content from the event creation frame to one or more recipients as an event canvas that displays a plurality of content tiles with associated content from corresponding content sources, including presenting the at least one particular content tile that renders the selected content from the first content source in the event canvas.
2. The computer system as recited in claim 1, wherein publishing the event canvas includes presenting the event canvas as different versions of the event canvas to different users based on different roles and/or systems associated with the different users, including presenting the at least one particular content tile in a first manner on a first version of the event canvas on a first system for a first user and in a different manner on a second version of the event canvas on a second system for a second user.
3. The computer system as recited in claim 2, wherein the first version utilizes a different quantity of the plurality of content tiles than utilized by the second version of the event canvas.
4. The computer system as recited in claim 2, wherein the first version utilizes a same quantity but a different organizational layout of the plurality of content tiles than utilized in the second version of the event canvas.
5. The computer system as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input selecting the selected content for the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame and associating the selected content with the particular content tile.
6. The computer system as recited in claim 5, wherein the method further includes: updating a rendering of the at least one particular content tile to reflect the selected content is associated with the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame.
7. The computer system as recited in claim 5, wherein the method further includes: updating a rendering of the at least one particular content tile in the event creation frame to reflect the selected content is associated with the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame.
8. The computer system as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input defining a tile type for the at least one particular content tile, the tile type defining how the at least one particular content tile will react to a boundary between adjacent monitors on the first system or the second system.
9. The computer system as recited in claim 1, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input defining a user role associated with the at least one particular content tile, the user role controlling how the at least one particular content tile will be rendered differently on the first system and the second system.
10. A computer implemented method for providing an interactive event creation control console to create a sharable event, the method comprising: a computer system presenting an interactive event creation control console with a content source frame and an event creation frame, the content source frame having at least one particular tile with selected content, the selected content from a first content source having been associated with the at least one particular tile; the computer system receiving user input for placing the at least one particular content tile in the event creation frame; the computer system updating the event creation frame with one or more selected content tiles from the content source frame, including the at least one particular content tile; and the computer system publishing content from the event creation frame to one or more recipients as an event canvas that displays a plurality of content tiles with associated content from corresponding content sources, including presenting the at least one particular content tile that renders the selected content from the first content source in the event canvas.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein publishing the event canvas includes presenting the event canvas as different versions of the event canvas to different users based on different roles and/or systems associated with the different users, including presenting the at least one particular content tile in a first manner on a first version of the event canvas on a first system for a first user and in a different manner on a second version of the event canvas on a second system for a second user.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the first version utilizes a different quantity of the plurality of content tiles than utilized by the second version of the event canvas.
13. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the first version utilizes a same quantity but a different organizational layout of the plurality of content tiles than utilized in the second version of the event canvas.
14. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input selecting the selected content for the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame and associating the selected content with the particular content tile.
15. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein the method further includes: updating a rendering of the at least one particular content tile to reflect the selected content is associated with the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame; and updating a rendering of the at least one particular content tile in the event creation frame to reflect the selected content is associated with the at least one particular content tile in the content source frame.
16. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input defining a tile type for the at least one particular content tile, the tile type defining how the at least one particular content tile will react to a boundary between adjacent monitors on the first system or the second system.
17. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the method further includes: receiving user input defining a user role associated with the at least one particular content tile, the user role controlling how the at least one particular content tile will be rendered differently on the first system and the second system.
18. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage medium having stored executable instructions that are operable, when executed by the one or more processors, for causing the computer system to implement a method for utilizing an interactive control console, the method comprising: the computer system presenting the interactive control console as a user interface on a display screen with at least a first frame, the first frame comprising a content source frame, with controls for enabling a user to search for and to select content sources having content associated with one or more events, the content sources being identified in the first frame as selectable links or tiles for accessing the content of the content sources; the computer system providing a control for enabling a user to drag and drop or copy the selectable links or tiles of the content sources into a second frame, comprising an event creation frame, which is displayed at the interactive control console, wherein the control is used for dragging and dropping or copying one or more selectable links or tiles into the event creation frame from the content source frame; and the computer system providing a control with the event creation frame which, when selected, triggers publication of content in the content source frame as an event canvas that displays a plurality of tiles corresponding to the content sources.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the method further includes publishing the content from the event creation frame to one or more recipients as the event canvas, the event canvas being rendered with the plurality of tiles, each of the plurality of tiles accessing and rendering content associated with corresponding content sources during display of the event canvas.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein formatting of the event canvas at different user systems is based on one or more event template selected from a plurality of different event templates corresponding to different event user roles, the selection of the template for a particular end user system being automatically selected based on one or more event role associated with one or more recipients of the end user system, wherein a first selected template and event canvas version used for a first event user role is different than a second selected template and event canvas version for a different event user role, the first and second event canvas versions providing at least some shared content corresponding to the one or more selectable links or tiles that are dragged and dropped or copied into the event creation frame from the content source frame.
</claims>
</document>
