<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/9032,G06F16/9035,G06F16/904
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BABYLON PARTNERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DHIR, ANISH
LEE, CIARAN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating a graphical model
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for creating a model that is a graphical representation are provided. In one aspect, a method includes including receiving a first dataset including a first variable and a third variable, and a second dataset including a second variable and the third variable. The method also includes creating graphical representations of the first and second datasets by applying conditional independence tests on them, and storing conditional independence information obtained by applying the conditional independence tests on the first and second datasets. The method also includes applying a bivariate causal discovery algorithm. The method further includes modifying the graphical representations of the first and second dataset according to the determined causal relations, and creating a set of candidate graphical representations for a third dataset including the first and second datasets. Each candidate graphical representation is consistent with the conditional independence information. Systems and machine-readable media are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of creating a model that is a graphical representation comprising: receiving a first dataset comprising a first variable and a third variable and a second dataset comprising a second variable and the third variable, wherein the first dataset and second dataset are overlapping in the third variable, wherein the first dataset and second dataset were not measured at the same time; creating graphical representations of the first dataset and the second dataset by applying conditional independence tests on the first dataset and second dataset; storing conditional independence information obtained by applying the conditional independence tests on the first dataset and the second dataset; applying a bivariate causal discovery algorithm to determine a causal relation between the first and third variable in the first dataset and a causal relation between the second and third variable in the second dataset, the causal discovery algorithm being able to determine if the first variable causes the third variable, the third variable causes the first variable, the second variable causes the third variable and the third variable causes the second variable; modifying the graphical representations of the first and second dataset according to the determined causal relations; and creating a set of candidate graphical representations for a third dataset comprising the first dataset and the second dataset, wherein each candidate graphical representation indicates a causal relationship between the first variable and the second variable, wherein each candidate graphical representation is consistent with the conditional independence information.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the bivariate causal discovery algorithm is causally sufficient, the method further comprising: storing causal relation information between pairs of variables, the causal relation information obtained by applying the bivariate causal discovery algorithm; checking each candidate graphical representation for consistency with the causal relation information using a set of criteria; and outputting a set of consistent graphical representations comprising candidate graphical representations that are consistent with the causal relation information.
3. A method according to claim 2 wherein the set of criteria distinguishes between possible causal structures between two variables in each candidate graphical representation.
4. A method according to claim 3 wherein checking each candidate's graphical representation for consistency with the causal relation information using a set of criteria comprises: applying the criteria to the candidate graphical representation to identify a causal structure between two variables; checking if the causal structure is consistent for the causal relation information for two variables.
5. A method according to claim 2 wherein the set of criteria encodes conditional independence information between variables in a causal structure.
6. A method according to claim 2 wherein the causal relation information is stored in three data structures depending on whether the relation between two variables is directed, comprises a common latent variable, or has both a directed relation and a common latent variable.
7. A method according to claim 2 wherein if the relation between the variables is a directed relation, the variables are stored in the data structure in an order that reflects the direction of the relation.
8. A method according to claim 2 wherein the set of consistent graphical representations comprises maximal ancestral graphs.
9. A method according to claim 2 wherein, if every maximal ancestral graph of a partial ancestral graph is consistent, the set of consistent graphical representations comprises the partial ancestral graph.
10. A non-transitory carrier medium carrying computer readable instructions being adapted to cause a computer to run the method recited in claim 1.
11. A computer-implemented method of determining a response to a user inputted query, using a model, the method comprising: receiving a user inputted query; identifying a node in said model related to said query, said model being stored in a memory of a computer; and performing inference on said model to provide a response to said user, wherein, said model is constructed by the method of claim 1.
12. A system adapted to generate a model that is a graphical representation, the system comprising a processor and a memory, the processor being adapted to: receive a first dataset comprising a first variable and a third variable and a second dataset comprising a second variable and the third variable, wherein the first dataset and second dataset are overlapping in the third variable, wherein the first dataset and second dataset were not measured at the same time; create graphical representations of the first dataset and the second dataset by applying conditional independence tests on the first dataset and second dataset; store conditional independence information obtained by applying the conditional independence tests on the first dataset and the second dataset; apply a bivariate causal discovery algorithm to determine a causal relation between the first and third variable in the first dataset and a causal relation between the second and third variable in the second dataset, the causal discovery algorithm being able to determine if the first variable causes the third variable, the third variable causes the first variable, the second variable causes the third variable and the third variable causes the second variable; modify the graphical representations of the first and second dataset according to the determined causal relations; and create a set of candidate graphical representations for a third dataset comprising the first dataset and the second dataset, wherein each candidate graphical representation indicates a causal relationship between the first variable and the second variable, wherein each candidate graphical representation is consistent with the conditional independence information.
13. A system according to claim 12, wherein the bivariate causal discovery algorithm is causally sufficient, the processor being further adapted to: store causal relation information between pairs of variables, the causal relation information obtained by applying the bivariate causal discovery algorithm; check each candidate graphical representation for consistency with the causal relation information using a set of criterion; and output a set of consistent graphical representations comprising candidate graphical representations that are consistent with the causal relation information.
</claims>
</document>
