<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01L15/00,G10L15/02,G10L15/20,G10L25/03,G10L25/09,G10L25/18,G10L25/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHELLAH, MUHAMMAD
PAUL, SOMNATH
AUGUSTINE, CHARLES
BOCKLET, TOBIAS
PEARCE, DAVID
MAJUMDER, TURBO
BANG, SUYOUNG
LIM, WOOTAEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65230136
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system of temporal-domain feature extraction for automatic speech recognition
</title>

<abstract>
A system, article, and method provide temporal-domain feature extraction for automatic speech recognition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of feature extraction for automatic speech recognition, comprising: receiving an input speech signal; performing, by at least one processor, delta-modulation comprising: comparing a representative value of a sample of the input speech signal to upper and lower thresholds of multiple threshold levels; providing at least a valid indicator and a shift indicator as output of the delta-modulation, wherein the valid indicator indicates a change in at least one threshold level along the input speech signal from a previous representative value to the next sample, and wherein the shift indicator is a single value indicating the total amount of change in threshold levels in a single direction up to the total amount of thresholds available and being a change in multiple levels associated with the valid indicator and from the previous representative value to the next sample; forming, by at least one processor, mel-frequency related coefficients comprising using the valid and shift indicators; and recognizing, by at least one processor, speech in the input speech signal comprising generating utterance hypothesis depending, at least in part, on probability scores of context-dependent phonemes formed by using the mel-frequency related coefficients.
2. The method of claim 1 comprising determining the feature extraction without using Fourier transform to provide frequency-domain signal data to perform mel-scale filtering.
3. The method of claim 1 comprising converting an analog input speech signal into a digital signal by performing the delta-modulation.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the comparing comprises performing the comparisons in a discrete time domain comprising synchronous multiple comparisons of the representative value of the input speech signal to thresholds of multiple levels during the same sample and by the use of a clock.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein a sampling rate and a comparison rate are at least partly based on the Nyquist sampling theorem.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein performing delta-modulation comprises performing the delta-modulation on a continuous stream of the input speech signal without dividing and storing the input speech signal into frames before or during the delta-modulation.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the total number of multiple levels is a number of threshold levels expected to cover a range of human speech frequencies.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the total number of multiple levels is at least two levels both with upper and lower thresholds.
9. The method of claim 1 comprising computing the representative value as a difference between a signal value of a sample and an accumulation of sample parameter terms individually associated with a different sample, wherein the individual sample parameter terms factor the shift indicator of the sample associated with the sample parameter term.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the individual sample parameter terms factor the valid indictor.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the individual sample parameter terms factor a direction indicator that indicates whether the input speech signal is falling or rising from sample to sample.
12. The method of claim 1 comprising performing finite impulse response (FIR) filtering comprising modifying mel-frequency coefficients wherein the amount of modification depends on the shift indicator.
13. The method of claim 1 comprising performing a Parseval Theorem-related energy operation comprising using FIR filter outputs generated by using the shift and valid indicators and to form intermediate coefficients to be used to form mel-frequency spectrum coefficients (MFSCs) or mel-frequency cepstrum coefficients (MFCCs) to be used to recognize words in the speech.
14. At least one non-transitory computer readable medium comprising a plurality of instructions that in response to being executed on a computing device, causes the computing device to operate by: obtaining, by at least one processor, a valid indicator that indicates a change in at least one threshold level along an input speech signal and from a previous representative value of the input speech to a next sample of the input speech signal, and wherein the shift indicator is a single value indicating the total amount of change in threshold levels in a single direction up to the total amount of thresholds available and being a change in multiple levels associated with the valid indicator and from the previous representative value to the next sample; and depending on a value of the valid indicator, using a t least one modified mel-frequency coefficient of a FIR filter to form filter outputs to be used to recognize speech in the input speech signal, wherein the FIR filter is arranged to modify the mel-frequency coefficient(s) by using the shift indicator; forming, by at least one processor, mel-frequency related coefficients comprising using the valid and shift indicators; and recognizing, by at least one processor, speech in the input speech signal comprising generating utterance hypothesis depending, at least in part, on probability scores of context-dependent phonemes formed by using the mel-frequency related coefficients.
15. The medium of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by performing delta-modulation comprising: comparing a representative value of a sample of the input speech signal to upper and lower thresholds of multiple threshold levels to form the valid and shift indicators.
16. The medium of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by determining a binary shift of a mel-frequency tap during mel-frequency filtering comprising determining the amount of binary shift depending on the shift indicator.
17. The medium of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by sharing delay-taps at delay elements of a plurality of the mel-frequency filters, wherein the delay elements control propagation of indicators from branch to branch of the mel-frequency filter wherein individual branches have a different mel-frequency coefficient of the mel-frequency filter, and the delay-taps are indicator values used at the delay elements.
18. The medium of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by sharing mel-frequency coefficients among multiple mel-frequency filters.
19. The medium of claim 14 wherein the instructions cause the computing device to operate by time-multiplexing an arithmetic logic unit (ALU) to perform at least a binary shift of mel-frequency coefficients or summation of shifted mel-frequency coefficients or both across multiple mel-frequency filters, wherein the time-multiplexing comprises operating the ALU at an ALU frequency faster than, and relative to, an input speech signal sampling frequency, wherein the ALU frequency being set by factoring a number of mel-frequency filters and a number of taps in the mel-frequency filters.
</claims>
</document>
