<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/35,G06F17/30,G06F40/00,G06F40/216,G06F40/295,G06F40/30,G06F7/00,G06N20/00,G06N20/20,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRISHNAMURTHY, LAKSHMINARAYANAN
KAUFMANN, JOSEPH M.
PARAMESWARAN, NIYATI
ANDERSON, RYAN R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61758748
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Using multiple natural language classifier to associate a generic query with a structured question type
</title>

<abstract>
A natural language query (NLQ) is translated to a structured data query (e.g., a SQL statement) by extracting entities from the NLQ and replacing them with generic variables to form a generic query. The generic query is associated with a structured question type which includes structured data variables using natural language classifiers (NLCs). Specific data is inserted in the structured question type in relation to the structured data variables based on the extracted entities to form the structured data query. An ensemble of NLCs trained with different ground truths can be used to yield multiple candidate question types. One of the candidate question types is selected based on confidence levels. The multiple NLCs can include an NLC which is optimized according to a focus of the generic query. For example, an NLC can be optimized for a specific data structure (such as SQL), or for comparative queries.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of associating a generic query having one or more generic variables with a structured question type comprising: receiving the generic query in computer-readable form, by executing first instructions in a computer system, wherein the generic query is derived from a natural language query; applying the generic query to multiple natural language classifiers each trained with different ground truths to yield multiple candidate question types each having one or more structured data variables respectively corresponding to the one or more generic variables, by executing second instructions in the computer system; determining confidence levels for the multiple candidate question types, by executing third instructions in the computer system; and selecting one of the candidate question types for the structured question type based on the confidence levels, by executing fourth instructions in the computer system.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining that the generic query is directed to a structured data system having a specific data structure; and including in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for the specific data structure.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining that the generic query is a comparative query; and including in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for comparative queries.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining includes assigning a weight to a selected one of the natural language classifiers based on a focus of the generic query.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein said determining includes identifying one of the candidate question types that a majority of the natural language classifiers yielded.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining that the structured question type has an associated confidence level which is below a predetermined confidence threshold; and responsive to said determining, requesting clarification of the natural language query.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the natural language query has at least one entity, and further comprising inserting specific data in the structured question type in relation to at least one of the structured data variables based on the at least one entity to form a structured data query.
8. A computer system comprising: one or more processors which process program instructions; a memory device connected to said one or more processors; and program instructions residing in said memory device for associating a generic query having one or more generic variables with a structured question type by receiving the generic query in computer-readable form wherein the generic query is derived from a natural language query, applying the generic query to multiple natural language classifiers each trained with different ground truths to yield multiple candidate question types each 10 having one or more structured data variables respectively corresponding to the one or more generic variables, determining confidence levels for the multiple candidate question types, and selecting one of the candidate question types for the structured question type based on the confidence levels.
9. The computer system of claim 8 wherein said program instructions further determines that the generic query is directed to a structured data system having a specific data structure, and include in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for the specific data structure.
10. The computer system of claim 8 wherein said program instructions further determine that the generic query is a comparative query, and include in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for comparative queries.
11. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the determining includes assigning a weight to a selected one of the natural language classifiers based on a focus of the generic query.
12. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the determining includes identifying one of the candidate question types that a majority of the natural language classifiers yielded.
13. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the said program instructions further determine that the structured question type has an associated confidence level which is below a predetermined confidence threshold, and responsively request clarification of the natural language query.
14. The computer system of claim 8 wherein the natural language query has at least one entity, and further comprising inserting specific data in the structured question type in relation to at least one of the structured data variables based on the at least one entity to form a structured data query.
15. A computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage medium; and program instructions residing in said storage medium for associating a generic query having one or more generic variables with a structured question type by receiving the generic query in computer-readable form wherein the generic query is derived from a natural language Query, applying the generic query to multiple natural language classifiers each trained with different ground truths to yield multiple candidate question types each having one or more structured data variables respectively corresponding to the one or more generic variables, determining confidence levels for the multiple candidate question types, and selecting one of the candidate question types for the structured question type based on the confidence levels.
16. The computer program product of claim 15 said program instructions further determines that the generic query is directed to a structured data system having a specific data structure, and include in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for the specific data structure.
17. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein said program instructions further determine that the generic query is a comparative query, and include in the multiple natural language classifiers a specific natural language classifier having a ground truth optimized for comparative queries.
18. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the determining includes assigning a weight to a selected one of the natural language classifiers based on a focus of the generic query.
19. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein the determining includes identifying one of the candidate question types that a majority of the natural language classifiers yielded.
20. The computer program product of claim 15 wherein said program instructions further determine that the structured question type has an associated confidence level which is below a predetermined confidence threshold, and responsively request clarification of the natural language query.
</claims>
</document>
