<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
OHSAWA, SHOHEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60038351
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Efficient determination of optimized learning settings of neural networks
</title>

<abstract>
A method comprising calculating output values of a plurality of linear nodes connected to a maxout node in a neural network, calculating a temporary maximum value among the output values during the calculation of the output values, and terminating the calculation of a final output value of a first linear node of the plurality of linear nodes in response to a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of the first linear node exceeds a threshold value during the calculation of the output values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: calculating, using a processor, output values of a plurality of linear nodes connected to a maxout node in a neural network; calculating, using the processor, a temporary maximum value among the output values during the calculation of the output values; terminating a calculation of a final output value of each linear node of the plurality of linear nodes that satisfies a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of that linear node exceeds a threshold value during the calculation of the output values; and continuing calculations of a final output value of non-terminated linear nodes of the plurality of linear nodes.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each linear node of the plurality of linear nodes is connected to a plurality of inputs, and the calculating output values includes calculating a final output value of each linear node based on the plurality of inputs and a plurality of weight values, each of the plurality of weight values associated with each of the plurality of inputs and the linear node.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating the final output value from each linear node includes multiplying each input of the plurality of inputs and corresponding weight value of the plurality of weight values and adding the result of multiplication; and the terminating includes terminating remaining multiplication and accumulation of the calculation of the final output value.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the calculating output values includes sorting the plurality of inputs in descending order.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein: the calculating output values includes calculating, for a first part of the plurality of inputs, temporary output values of the plurality of linear nodes; the calculating the temporary maximum value includes calculating, for the first part of the plurality of inputs, the temporary maximum value; the terminating includes terminating the calculation of the final output value from a linear node in response to a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of the linear node for the first part of the plurality of inputs exceeds the threshold value.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: generating the threshold value based on at least one of the plurality of weight values and the plurality of inputs.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the generating includes generating the threshold value based on each maximum weight value among weight values defined between each of the plurality of inputs and the plurality of linear nodes.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the generating includes generating the threshold value based on a maximum weight value among the plurality of weight values defined between the plurality of inputs and each of the plurality of linear nodes.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the generating includes generating the threshold value based on the maximum weight value among the plurality of weight values defined between the plurality of inputs except for the first part of the plurality of inputs of each of the plurality of linear nodes.
10. The method of claim 5, wherein the calculating output values includes adding the next two or more inputs to the first part of the plurality of inputs, and calculating the temporary output values of the plurality of linear nodes.
11. The method of claim 2, wherein the calculating output values includes calculating output values of a first part of the plurality of linear nodes; the calculating the temporary maximum value includes selecting a maximum output value of the first part of the plurality of linear nodes as the temporary maximum value; and the terminating includes terminating the calculation of an output value from a linear node excluded from the first part of the plurality of linear nodes in response to a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of the linear node exceeds the threshold value.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating the threshold value based on at least one of the plurality of weight values and the plurality of inputs.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the generating includes generating the threshold value based on each of the maximum weight values among weight values defined between each of the plurality of inputs and the remaining nodes excluded from the first part of the plurality of linear nodes.
14. The method of claim 13, comprising: creating, for a first input of the plurality of inputs, a weight table including weight values between the first input and the plurality of linear nodes, the weight values being sorted in descending order, and wherein the generating includes generating the threshold value by using the maximum weight value from the weight table between the first input and the plurality of linear nodes excluded from the first part of the plurality of linear nodes, and disabling the maximum weight value in the weight table in response to a condition that the corresponding linear node is added to the first plurality of linear nodes.
15. A non-transitory computer program product comprising one or more non-transitory computer readable storage mediums having instructions embodied therewith, the instructions being executable by a computer to cause the computer to: calculate output values of a plurality of linear nodes connected to a maxout node in a neural network; calculate a temporary maximum value among the output values during the calculation of the output values; terminate a calculation of a final output value of each linear node of the plurality of linear nodes that satisfies a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of that linear node exceeds a threshold value during the calculation of the output values; and continue calculations of a final output value of non-terminated linear nodes of the plurality of linear nodes.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein each linear node of the plurality of linear nodes is connected to a plurality of inputs, and a final output value of each linear node is calculated based on the plurality of inputs and a plurality of weight values, each of the plurality of weight values associated with each of the plurality of inputs and the linear node.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein calculating output values includes multiplying each input of the plurality of inputs and corresponding weight value of the plurality of weight values and adding the result of multiplication; and terminating includes terminating remaining multiplication and accumulation of the calculation of the final output value.
18. The computer program product of claim 17, wherein calculating output values includes sorting the plurality of inputs in descending order.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein: calculating output values includes calculating, for a first part of the plurality of inputs, temporary output values of the plurality of linear nodes; calculating the temporary maximum value includes calculating, for the first part of the plurality of inputs, the temporary maximum value; and terminating the calculation includes terminating the calculation of the final output value from a linear node in response to a condition that a difference between the temporary maximum value and a temporary output value of the linear node for the first part of the plurality of inputs exceeds the threshold value.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further comprising instructions executable by a computer to cause the computer to generate the threshold value based on at least one of the plurality of weight values and the plurality of inputs.
</claims>
</document>
