<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/36,A61N1/37,A61N1/372
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COCHLEAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
VON BRASCH, ALEXANDER
FUNG, STEPHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63445927
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Individualized auditory prosthesis fitting
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention are generally directed to individualized (recipient-specific) techniques for fitting an auditory/hearing prosthesis to a recipient. In the individualized fitting techniques, a fitting system obtains data/information that is specific to the recipient to which the auditory prosthesis is being fitted. The fitting system is configured to analyze the recipient-specific data and to generate an individualized fitting plan/program that is specifically tailored to the recipient.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for fitting an auditory prosthesis to a recipient, comprising: a display screen; one or more user input devices; and one or more processors configured to: obtain recipient-specific data associated with the recipient of the auditory prosthesis; analyze the recipient-specific data with a machine learning process to determine a first set of auditory prosthesis settings that are clinically relevant for the recipient, wherein the first set of auditory prosthesis settings comprise only a subset of a plurality of auditory prosthesis settings that may be determined for the auditory prosthesis; and based on the recipient-specific data, automatically generate and display an individualized fitting interface at the display screen that exposes to a user only a first set of functional fitting modules that are useable to determine the first set of auditory prosthesis settings that are clinically relevant for the recipient.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein to analyze the recipient-specific data with a machine learning process to determine a first set of auditory prosthesis settings that are clinically relevant for the recipient, the one or more processors are configured to: analyze only the recipient-specific data to determine the first set of auditory prosthesis settings, wherein the first set of auditory prosthesis settings comprise setting that enable the auditory prosthesis to convert sound signals into stimulation signals for delivery to the recipient.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: generate, in real-time, the first set of functional fitting modules based on the recipient-specific data.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to: select the first set of functional fitting modules from a plurality of pre-built functional fitting modules.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recipient-specific data associated with the recipient of the auditory prosthesis is obtained from the auditory prosthesis.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recipient-specific data associated with the recipient of the auditory prosthesis is obtained from a clinical database.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the recipient-specific data comprises at least one of an age of the recipient, a type of hearing loss experienced by the recipient, or an age of onset of hearing loss.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the apparatus is a mobile device.
9. A method for fitting an auditory prosthesis to a recipient with a fitting system, wherein the fitting system is configured to enable a clinician to set a plurality of settings for the auditory prosthesis, the method comprising: obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient; analyzing the recipient-specific data with a machine learning process to identify first set of prosthesis settings that enable the auditory prosthesis to convert sound signals into stimulation signals for delivery to the recipient, wherein the first set of prosthesis settings comprising only a subset of the plurality of settings that may be set by the fitting system; identifying selected functional fitting modules useable to determine values for the first set of prosthesis settings, wherein the selected functional fitting modules comprise only a subset of a plurality of functional fitting modules available at the fitting system; and displaying only the selected functional fitting modules at a display screen of the fitting system.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein identifying, the selected functional fitting modules comprises: generating, in real-time, each of the selected functional fitting modules useable to determine values for the first set of prosthesis settings.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the plurality of functional fitting modules comprise a plurality of pre-stored functional fitting modules stored in the fitting system and wherein identifying, the selected functional fitting modules comprises: selecting each of the selected functional fitting modules from the plurality of pre-stored functional fitting modules.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining recipient-specific data from the auditory prosthesis.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining recipient-specific data from a clinical database.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the recipient-specific data comprises at least one of an age of the recipient, a type of hearing loss experienced by the recipient, or an age of onset of hearing loss.
15. A method for fitting an auditory prosthesis to a recipient, comprising: at an auditory prosthesis fitting system: obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient; analyzing the recipient-specific data with a machine learning process to determine a first set of auditory prosthesis settings that are clinically relevant for the recipient, wherein the first set of auditory prosthesis settings comprise only a subset of a plurality of auditory prosthesis settings that may be determined for the auditory prosthesis; generating an individualized fitting plan to determine values for each of the settings in the first set of auditory prosthesis settings; and displaying, at a display screen of the auditory prosthesis fitting system, an indication of the individualized fitting plan for the recipient.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the auditory prosthesis fitting system is configurable for use in determining a plurality of auditory prosthesis settings, and wherein displaying the indication of the individualized fitting plan for the recipient comprises: displaying, at the display screen, an individualized fitting interface that includes only a first set of functional fitting modules needed to determine values for each of the settings in the first set of auditory prosthesis settings, wherein the first set of functional fitting modules comprise only a subset of a plurality of functional fitting modules available at the auditory prosthesis fitting system.
17. The method of claim 16, furthering comprising: generating the functional fitting modules in real-time based on the recipient-specific data.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining recipient-specific data from the auditory prosthesis.
19. The method of claim 15, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining recipient-specific data from a clinical database.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining at least one of an age of the recipient, a type of hearing loss experienced by the recipient, or an age of onset of hearing loss.
21. The method of claim 15, wherein obtaining recipient-specific data associated with the recipient comprises: obtaining at least one past clinical record associated with the recipient.
22. The method of claim 15, wherein the auditory prosthesis is a cochlear implant, and wherein generating an individualized fitting plan comprises: generating a cochlear implant fitting plan that is specifically tailored to the recipient.
</claims>
</document>
