<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F19/00,G06K9/62,G06T11/20,G06T11/60,G06T7/00,G16H50/20,G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARVARD UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAN HONG
SILBERSWEIG, DAVID
STERN, EMILY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53836197
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for generating biomarkers based on multivariate classification of functional imaging and associated data
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for generating biomarkers associated with neuropsychiatric disorders, neurodevelopmental disorders, neurobehavioral disorders, or other neurological disorders are described. In general, the biomarkers are generated based on correlations between functional imaging data and clinical acquired from a subject, as computed using a multivariate classifier. Functional imaging data may include functional magnetic resonance images, or activation maps generated from such images. Clinical data generally includes data associated with a clinical or behavioral characterization of the subject. The biomarkers can be used to monitor or otherwise assess a treatment response; to provide diagnostic information, such as subtyping or classifying a disorder; to provide prognostic information, such as a prediction of treatment response or outcome; or to indicate functional or anatomical targets for treatments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for generating a biomarker associated with a neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder, the steps of the method comprising: (a) providing to a computer system, functional imaging data acquired from a subject's brain; (b) providing to the computer system, clinical data associated with the subject; and (c) generating with the computer system, a biomarker associated with the neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder by computing a correlation between the functional imaging data and the clinical data using a multivariate classifier; (d) forming a matrix that includes matrix data that corresponds to regions in the subject's brain and the functional imaging data and the clinical data; and wherein the computer system is used to perform at least one of dimensionality reduction or feature extraction on the matrix before inputting the matrix to the multivariate classifier.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein step (d) includes forming the matrix having rows that correspond to the regions in the subject's brain and having columns that correspond to the functional imaging data and the clinical data, and wherein computing the correlation between the functional imaging data and the clinical data includes inputting the matrix to the multivariate classifier.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the functional imaging data includes at least one of functional magnetic resonance images acquired from the subject while the subject was performing a functional task, or functional magnetic resonance images acquired from the subject while the subject was in a resting state.
4. The method as recited in claim 3, wherein step (a) includes generating from the functional magnetic resonance images and with the computer system, activation maps that depict neuronal activation patterns associated with at least one of the functional task or the resting state.
5. The method as recited in claim 4, wherein the activation maps are generated with the computer system by using a multi-level mixed-effects statistical model.
6. The method as recited in claim 5, wherein the multi-level mixed-effects statistical model includes a nested random-effects structure.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the multi-level mixed-effects statistical model further includes an intra-subject power variance function and an autoregressive correlation structure.
8. The method as recited in claim 1, further comprising providing to the computer system additional data associated with system-level biological measures of the subject, and wherein step (c) includes generating the biomarker by computing a correlation between the functional imaging data, the clinical data, and the additional data using the multivariate classifier.
9. The method as recited in claim 8, wherein the additional data includes at least one of other imaging data, physiological data, genetic data, or epigenetic data.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein step (c) includes generating a classifier map using the computer system to map the correlation to a multidimensional parametric space having dimensions associated with the functional imaging data and the clinical data.
11. The method as recited in claim 10, wherein the biomarker includes a quantitative metric computed by the computer system from the classifier map, and wherein step (c) includes generating a report based on the quantitative metric.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the quantitative metric is a center-of-mass of correlated data associated with a particular classified group.
13. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein the quantitative metric is a distance of the subject's correlated data from a center-of-mass of correlated data associated with a particular classified group.
14. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the biomarker indicates a degree of efficacy of a particular treatment, and steps (a)-(c) are repeated at a different time to evaluate the degree of efficacy of the particular treatment.
15. A computer-implemented method for generating a biomarker that indicates a target for treating a neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder, the steps of the method comprising: (a) providing to a computer system, functional imaging data acquired from a subject's brain; (b) providing to the computer system, clinical data associated with the subject; (c) providing to the computer system, additional data associated with system-level biological measures of the subject; (d) forming a matrix using the computer system that includes matrix data that corresponds to regions in the subject's brain and the functional imaging data and the clinical data; and wherein the computer system is used to perform at least one of dimensionality reduction or feature extraction on the matrix; and (e) generating with the computer system, a biomarker that indicates a target for treating a neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder by computing a correlation between the functional imaging data, the clinical data, and the additional data using a multivariate classifier.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein step (d) includes generating the biomarker by mapping with the computer system, the correlation to a multidimensional parametric space, in which data points mapped to a similar region of the multidimensional parametric space correspond to similar neural signatures and symptoms associated with the neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the multidimensional parametric space includes dimensions corresponding to the functional imaging data, the clinical data, and the additional data.
18. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the biomarker indicates a functional target for treatment, in which the functional target represents symptoms correlated with the neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder.
19. The method as recited in claim 18, wherein the functional target further represents patterns of neuronal activation correlated with the symptoms and the neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder.
20. The method as recited in claim 16, wherein the biomarker indicates an anatomical target for treatment, in which the anatomical target represents brain regions associated with symptoms correlated with the neuropsychiatric, neurodevelopmental, neurobehavioral, or other neurological disorder.
</claims>
</document>
