<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/26,H04M15/00,H04W4/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANANDAN, SWAPNA
LIVANOS, KONSTANTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67659944
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Process-efficient generation of data records for data communications involving groups or aggregates of IoT devices
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, apparatus, and systems for the process-efficient generation of data records for data communications involving groups or aggregates of user equipment (UE), such as IoT devices, are described. In one illustrative example, for each one of a plurality of UEs associated with a group or aggregation identifier (ID), a request which includes data indicative of a network resource usage event of the UE is received and the data are stored in association with the group or aggregation ID. In response to identifying a predetermined condition, the data indicative of the network resource usage events associated with the group or aggregation ID are aggregated, and a request for generating a data record based on the aggregated data is sent to a data function for generating the data record. The generated data record (e.g. a CDR) may be stored for subsequent retrieval for reporting, analysis, network/communications management, or billing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a charging data function for use in a mobile network, obtaining from a charging trigger function (CTF) a charging data request responsive to a network resource usage event of a user equipment (UE) and including data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE; processing the charging data request by: based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is not to be performed, generating a charging data record (CDR) for the UE based on the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE; based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed, storing the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE in association with a group or aggregation identifier (ID) which identifies a group or aggregate of UEs; repeating the obtaining and the processing for each one of a plurality of charging data requests associated with a plurality of network resource usage events of a plurality of UEs; in response to identifying a predetermined condition: aggregating, by an aggregation function of the charging data function, each stored data indicative of the network resource usage event associated with the group or aggregation ID, for producing aggregated data for the group or aggregate of UEs; and generating, based on the aggregated data, an aggregate CDR for the group or aggregate of UEs.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: obtaining the charging data request comprises obtaining the charging data request at the aggregation function of the charging data function.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed includes the group or aggregation ID which identifies the group or aggregate of UEs.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the predetermined condition comprises identifying an expiration of a time period.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the predetermined condition comprises identifying a volume limit for data transfers involving the group or aggregate of UEs.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: generating the aggregate CDR comprises including the group or aggregation ID in the aggregate CDR.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: each charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed includes the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE for a data transfer between an application server (AS) and the UE in the group or aggregate of UEs, and the CTF is associated with a network function configured for exposure of services and capabilities of the mobile network, and for interfacing with the AS for data transfers of the group or aggregate of UEs via the mobile network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregate CDR is stored for subsequent retrieval for reporting, analysis, billing, or communications management.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: at the charging data function, sending the aggregate CDR via a charging gateway function (CGF) for receipt at a billing domain entity.
10. A computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer readable medium; instructions stored in the non-transitory computer readable medium, the instructions comprising a charging data function executable on one or more processors of a network node in a mobile network for: obtaining from a charging trigger function (CTF) a charging data request responsive to a network resource usage event of a user equipment (UE) and including data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE; processing the charging data request by: based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is not to be performed, generating a charging data record (CDR) for the UE based on the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE; based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed, storing the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE in association with a group or aggregation identifier (ID) which identifies a group or aggregate of UEs; repeating the obtaining and the processing for each one of a plurality of charging data requests associated with a plurality of network resource usage events of a plurality of UEs; in response to identifying a predetermined condition: aggregating, by an aggregation function of the charging data function, each stored data indicative of the network resource usage event associated with the group or aggregation ID which identifies the group or aggregate of UEs, for producing aggregated data for the group or aggregate of UEs; and generating, based on the aggregated data, an aggregate CDR for the group or aggregate of UEs.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein each charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed includes the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE for a data transfer between an application server (AS) and the UE in the group or aggregate of UEs.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions of the charging data function are executable on the one or more processors further for: identifying the predetermined condition by identifying an expiration of a time period or by identifying a volume limit for data transfers involving the group or aggregate of UEs.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions of the charging data function are executable on the one or more processors further for: for each charging data request, identifying an aggregation indicator in the charging data request, and wherein the aggregation indicator is set to indicate that aggregation is to be performed or that aggregation is not to be performed.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the instructions of the charging data function are executable on the one or more processors further for: sending the aggregate CDR via a charging gateway function (CGF) for receipt at a billing domain entity.
15. A network node for use in a mobile network, the network node comprising: one or more processors; an interface for communication with a billing domain (BD) entity via a charging gateway function (CGF); the one or more processors being configured for executing a charging data function for: obtaining from a charging trigger function (CTF) a charging data request responsive to a network resource usage event of a user equipment (UE) and including data indicative of a network resource usage event of the UE; processing the charging data request by: based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is not to be performed, generating a charging data record (CDR) based on the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE and sending the CDR via the CGF to the BD entity; based on the charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed, storing the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE in association with a group or aggregation identifier (ID) which identifies a group or aggregate of UEs; in response to identifying a predetermined condition: aggregating, by an aggregation function of the charging data function, each stored data indicative of the network resource usage event associated with the group or aggregation ID which identifies the group or aggregate of UEs, for producing aggregated data for the group or aggregate of UEs; and generating, based on the aggregated data, an aggregate CDR for the group or aggregate of UEs and sending the aggregate CDR via the CGF to the BD entity.
16. The network node of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured for executing the charging data function further for: generating the aggregate CDR by including the group or aggregation ID in the aggregate CDR.
17. The network node of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured for executing the charging data function further for: identifying the predetermined condition by identifying an expiration of a time period or by identifying a volume limit for data transfers involving of the group or aggregate of UEs.
18. The network node of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured for executing the charging data function further for: charging data request, identifying an aggregation indicator in the charging data request, and wherein the aggregation indicator is set to indicate that aggregation is to be performed or that aggregation is not to be performed.
19. The network node of claim 15, wherein: the one or more processors are further configured for further executing a network function comprising one of a services and capabilities exposure function (SCEF) or a network exposure function (NEF), for interfacing with an application server for a data transfer involving the group or aggregate of UEs, each charging data request indicating that aggregation is to be performed includes the data indicative of the network resource usage event of the UE for the data transfer between the application server and the UE in the group or aggregate of UEs, and the data transfer involves the group or aggregate of UEs which include lightweight machine-to-machine (LWM2M) devices and/or Internet of Things (IoT) devices.
20. The network node of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are further configured for further executing one of a control plane (CP) function for mobility management, a CP function for exposure of services and capabilities, or a CP function for session management.
</claims>
</document>
