<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/738,G06F17/00,G06F17/24,G06F17/27,G06F3/0485,G06F3/0488,G06F40/169,G06F40/30,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
RYU, WON-HO
RHO, JI-HYUN
LEE, JI-YEON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62190923
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic apparatus and method for summarizing content thereof
</title>

<abstract>
An example electronic apparatus and an example method for summarizing content thereof are provided. The example method includes displaying content on a display; based on receiving user input for content summarization, determining, as a content summarization range, from among content areas which are not displayed on the display, a content area corresponding to a location on the display at which the user input is detected; summarizing content within the content summarization range according to a type of the content; and displaying the summarized content along with the displayed content. The example electronic apparatus and example method may summarize the content by using a rule-based algorithm or an Artificial Intelligence (AI) algorithm.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for summarizing content of an electronic apparatus, the method comprising: displaying a first portion of content on a display; receiving a user input on the display while the first portion of the content is being displayed; determining an area of the display corresponding to a position where the user input is received on the display; identifying, from among a plurality of different non-displayed portions of the content, a first non-displayed portion of the content corresponding to the determined area; summarizing the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content; and displaying the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content along with at least a portion of the first portion of the content.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a user touch input to any of upper, lower, right, and left areas of the display.
3. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: determining the type of the content by analyzing the content.
4. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: identifying, from among a plurality of different content summarization units, a content summarization unit based on a type of the user input, wherein the first non-displayed portion of the content is summarized using the identified content summarization unit.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: displaying, based on receiving user input for scrolling a screen while the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content is displayed, the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content having a content summarization range changed according to the screen scrolling.
6. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the first non-displayed portion of the content is summarized based on a data summarization model generated by using a learning algorithm.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein summarizing the first non-displayed portion of the content comprises: analyzing information of the first non-displayed portion of the content; extracting main text for a summary sentence based on the analyzed information; and generating the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content by editing and arranging the extracted text.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein, based on the first non-displayed portion of the content comprising shopping content for a plurality of products, the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content comprises images of the products and text about the products.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the summarizing of the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content and a type of the received input.
10. An electronic apparatus comprising: a display; and a processor configured to: control the display to display a first portion of content; control to receive a user input on the display while the first portion of the content is being displayed; determine an area of the display corresponding to a position where the user input is received on the display; identify, from among a plurality of different non-displayed portions of the content, a first non-displayed portion of the content corresponding to the determined area; summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content; and control the display to display the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content along with at least a portion of the first portion of the content.
11. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the user input comprises a user touch input to any of upper, lower, right, and left areas of the display.
12. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to determine the type of the content by analyzing the content.
13. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to identify, from among a plurality of different content summarization units, a content summarization unit based on a type of the user input and summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content using the identified content summarization unit.
14. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to, based on receiving user input for scrolling while the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content is displayed, control the display to display the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content having a content summarization range changed according to the screen scrolling.
15. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, further comprising: a memory configured to store a data summarization model generated by using a learning algorithm, wherein the processor is configured to summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content based on the stored data summarization model.
16. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to analyze information of the first non-displayed portion of the content, extract main text for a summary sentence based on the analyzed information, and generate the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content by editing and arranging the extracted text.
17. The apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein based on the content comprising shopping content for a plurality of products, the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content comprises images of the products and text about the products.
18. The electronic apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content and a type of the received input.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program for executing a method for summarizing content which, when executed by a processor of an electronic apparatus, causes the electronic apparatus to execute operations comprising: displaying a first portion of content on a display; receiving a user input on the display while the first portion of the content is being displayed; determining an area of the display corresponding to a position where the user input is received on the display; identifying, from among a plurality of different non-displayed portions of the content, a first non-displayed portion of the content corresponding to the determined area; summarizing the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content; and displaying the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content along with at least a portion of the first portion of the content.
20. An electronic apparatus comprising: a display; a memory; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to: control the display to display a first portion of content; control to receive a user input on the display while the first portion of the content is being displayed; determine an area of the display corresponding to a position where the user input is received on the display; identify, from among a plurality of different non-displayed portions of the content, a first non-displayed portion of the content corresponding to the determined area; summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content based on a type of the content by applying a data summarization model configured to summarize the first non-displayed portion of the content, the data summarization model comprising a model learned by using content and summarized content as learning data; control the display to display the summarized first non-displayed portion of the content along with at least a portion of the first portion of the content.
</claims>
</document>
