<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2009-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
REFINITIV US ORGANIZATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEIDNER, JOCHEN, LOTHAR
SIIG, OLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51532053
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for generating supply chain representations
</title>

<abstract>
A computer implemented method for mining supply chain information to produce supply chain graphs includes receiving by a computer a set of data; identifying a supplier, a commodity, and a customer from the set of data; generating a query comprising the identified data; determining the absence of any of the supplier, the commodity, or the customer from the set of data; if any items are determined to be absent from the set of data, substituting a placeholder for the missing item from the data set; sending the query; receiving a set of supply chain graph information; generating a supply chain graph signal based upon the set of supply chain graph information; and transmitting the supply chain graph signal. A computing device or system includes a processor an electronic memory; and a program for mining supply chain information to produce supply chain graphs stored in the electronic memory.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer system comprising: a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor; a program stored in the memory, the program when executed by the processor comprising computer executable code adapted to: receive by the computer system as an input a set of company names C, a set of commodity types T, the computer system further comprises a set of query templates Q and a set of relationship types R; receive by the computer system a set of information; identify by the computer system one or more of a supplier, a commodity, and a customer from the set of information; generate by the computer system an instantiated query for execution by at least one search engine on an external database, the instantiated query comprising a supplier entry, a commodity entry, and a customer entry corresponding, respectively, to the identified supplier, commodity, and customer in the set of information, wherein the instantiated query comprises the elements: "{c1}{r}{t}{c2}"; wherein c1 is a first entity name, c2 is a second entity name, r is a relationship type, t is a commodity type, and the elements c1, r, t, and c2 are coupled with a linguistic indicia indicating a supply chain relationship; and determine by the computer system the absence of any of a supplier, a commodity, or a customer from the set of information and generating and inserting a placeholder for each item absent from the set of information; a transceiver for sending the instantiated query and receiving a set of supply chain information; a supply chain generation module for generating a supply chain data structure based at least in part upon the set of supply chain information; and a transmitter for transmitting a signal comprising the supply chain data structure.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the signal comprising the supply chain data structure is a supply chain visualization signal having a set of content associated with the set of supply chain information.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the supply chain visualization signal is adapted for use by a display to present a graphical representation of an aspect of a supply chain relationship.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the computer system further comprises a supply chain graph module, the supply chain graph module connected to the supply chain visualization signal generation module.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one query in the set of query templates Q comprises the elements: "{c1}{r}{t}{c2}"; wherein c′ is a first entity name selected from the set of company names C, c2 is a second entity name selected from the set of company names C, r is a relationship type selected from the set of relationship types R, t is a commodity type selected from the set of commodity types T, and the elements c1, r, t, and c2 are coupled with a linguistic indicia indicating a supply chain relationship.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the set of query templates Q further comprises at least one instantiated query template q′.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the set of supply chain information comprises a set of triples comprising a supplying entity, a commodity type, and a supplied entity.
8. The system of claim 2 wherein the supply chain visualization signal comprises at least one graph node and at least one connecting vertex.
9. The system of claim 8 wherein the supply chain visualization signal comprises a first node representing a supplying entity and a second node representing a customer entity and a connecting vertex representing a commodity type.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein each placeholder comprises a wildcard and the system is adapted to generate and execute a plurality of instantiated queries based on one or more sets of data respectively associated with each wildcard.
11. The system of claim 10 wherein execution of the plurality of instantiated queries returns a candidate result set.
12. A computer implemented method comprising: receiving by a computer a set of information; identifying by a computer one or more of a supplier, a commodity, and a customer from the set of information; generating by a computer an instantiated query for execution by at least one search engine on an external database, the instantiated query comprising a supplier entry, a commodity entry, and a customer entry corresponding, respectively, to the identified supplier, commodity, and customer in the set of information, wherein the instantiated query comprises the elements: "{c1}{r}{t}{c2}"; wherein c1 is a first entity name, c2 is a second entity name, r is a relationship type, t is a commodity type, and the elements c1, r, t, and c2 are coupled with a linguistic indicia indicating a supply chain relationship; determining by a computer the absence of any of a supplier, a commodity, or a customer from the set of information and generating and inserting a placeholder for each item absent from the set of information; sending by a computer the query; receiving by a computer a set of supply chain information; generating by a computer a supply chain data structure based at least in part upon the received set of supply chain information; and transmitting by a computer the supply chain data structure.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the signal comprising the supply chain data structure is a supply chain visualization signal is having a set of content associated with the set of supply chain information.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the supply chain visualization signal is adapted for use by a display to present a graphical representation of an aspect of a supply chain relationship.
15. The method of claim 12 further comprising receiving a set of company names C and receiving a set of commodity types T, wherein the set of company names C and the set of commodity types T are used in identifying one or more of a supplier, a commodity, and a customer.
16. The method of claim 12 wherein the set of supply chain information comprises a set of triples comprising a supplying entity, a commodity type, and a supplied entity.
17. The method of claim 13 wherein the supply chain visualization signal comprises at least one graph node and at least one connecting vertex.
18. The method of claim 17 wherein the supply chain visualization signal comprises a first node representing a supplying entity and a second node representing a customer entity and a connecting vertex representing a commodity type.
19. The method of claim 12 wherein the placeholder comprises a wildcard and further comprising generating and executing a plurality of instantiated queries based on one or more sets of data respectively associated with each wildcard.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein execution of the plurality of instantiated queries returns a candidate result set.
21. A computer system comprising: a processor; a memory communicatively coupled to the processor; a program stored in the memory, the program when executed by the processor comprising computer executable code adapted to: receive by the computer system as an input a set of company names C, a set of commodity types T, the computer system further comprises a set of query templates Q and a set of relationship types R, wherein at least one query in the set of query templates Q comprises the elements: "{c1}{r}{t}{c2}"; wherein c1 is a first entity name selected from the set of company names C, c2 is a second entity name selected from the set of company names C, r is a relationship type selected from the set of relationship types R, t is a commodity type selected from the set of commodity types T, and the elements c1, r, t, and c2 are coupled with a linguistic indicia indicating a supply chain relationship; receive by the computer system a set of information; identify by the computer system one or more of a supplier, a commodity, and a customer from the set of information; generate by the computer system an instantiated query for execution by at least one search engine on an external database, the instantiated query comprising a supplier entry, a commodity entry, and a customer entry corresponding, respectively, to the identified supplier, commodity, and customer in the set of information; and determine by the computer system the absence of any of a supplier, a commodity, or a customer from the set of information and generating and inserting a placeholder for each item absent from the set of information; a transceiver for sending the instantiated query and receiving a set of supply chain information; a supply chain generation module for generating a supply chain data structure based at least in part upon the set of supply chain information; and a transmitter for transmitting a signal comprising the supply chain data structure.
</claims>
</document>
