<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/055,A61B6/00,A61B6/03,A61B8/00,G06F16/245,G06F21/62,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F40/295,G06F9/54,G06K9/20,G06K9/62,G06K9/66,G06N20/00,G06N20/20,G06N5/04,G06Q10/06,G06Q20/14,G06Q50/22,G06T11/00,G06T11/20,G06T3/40,G06T5/00,G06T5/50,G06T7/00,G06T7/10,G06T7/11,G06T7/187,G06T7/44,G06T7/70,G16H10/20,G16H10/60,G16H15/00,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H40/20,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/70,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ENLITIC
</assignee>

<inventors>
UPTON, ANTHONY
COVINGTON, BEN
LYMAN, KEVIN
YAO, LI
PROSKY, JORDAN
POBLENZ, ERIC C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726467
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Utilizing random parameters in an intensity transform augmentation system
</title>

<abstract>
An intensity transform augmentation system is operable to receive a training set of medical scans. Random intensity transformation function parameters are generated for each medical scan of the training set of medical scans. A plurality of augmented images are generated, where each of the plurality of augmented images is generated by performing a intensity transformation function on one of the training set of medical scans by utilizing the random intensity transform parameters generated for the one of the training set of medical scan. A computer vision model is generated by performing a training step on the plurality of augmented images. A new medical scan is received via the receiver. Inference data is generated by performing an inference function that utilizes the computer vision model on the new medical scan. The inference data is transmitted to a client device for display via a display device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An intensity transform augmentation system, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory that stores operational instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the intensity transform augmentation system to: receive, via a receiver, a training set of medical scans; generate random intensity transformation function parameters for each medical scan of the training set of medical scans; generate a plurality of augmented images, wherein each of the plurality of augmented images is generated by performing an intensity transformation function on one of the training set of medical scans by utilizing the random intensity transformation function parameters generated for the one of the training set of medical scans, wherein a set of augmented images are generated for each of the training set of medical scans, and wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are generated separately for utilization in performing the intensity transformation function on the each of the training set of medical scans to generate each of the set of augmented images; generate a computer vision model by performing a training step on the plurality of augmented images; receive, via the receiver, a new medical scan; generate inference data by performing an inference function that utilizes the computer vision model on the new medical scan; and transmit, via a transmitter, the inference data to a client device for display via a display device.
2. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein performing the intensity transformation function on the one of the training set of medical scans includes calculating each one of a plurality of greyscale pixel values of the augmented image as a deterministic function of each corresponding one of a plurality of density values of raw sensor data of the one of the training set of medical scans.
3. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein performing the intensity transformation function on the one of the training set of medical scans includes calculating each one of a final plurality of greyscale pixel values of the augmented image as a deterministic function of each corresponding one of an initial plurality of greyscale pixel values of image data of the one of the training set of medical scans.
4. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein generating the computer vision model includes performing the training step on image data of each of the training set of medical scans and the plurality of augmented images.
5. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein the intensity transformation function is a non-linear function defined by the random intensity transformation function parameters.
6. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein generating the random intensity transformation function parameters includes randomly selecting a density window center and a density window boundary pair, and wherein the intensity transformation function is a density windowing function defined by the density window center and the density window boundary pair.
7. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein generating the random intensity transformation function parameters includes randomly selecting a mean value and further includes randomly selecting a standard deviation value, and wherein the intensity transformation function is performed in accordance with the mean value and the standard deviation value.
8. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 7, wherein performing the intensity transformation function on the one of the training set of medical scans includes calculating each one of a final plurality of pixel values of the augmented image as a deterministic function of each corresponding one of an initial plurality of pixel values of the one of the training set of medical scans, and wherein the wherein the deterministic function is a cumulative distribution function of a normal distribution designated by the mean value and the standard deviation value.
9. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 7, wherein a final histogram indicating an occurrence of pixel values for each of the plurality of augmented images reflects the mean value and the standard deviation value.
10. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 9, wherein an initial histogram indicating an occurrence of pixel values for the one of the training set of medical scans is utilized to determine the intensity transformation function such that the final histogram reflects the mean value and the standard deviation value.
11. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are selected randomly from a discrete set of pre-determined parameter options.
12. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are generated in accordance with a non-uniform random distribution.
13. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 12, further comprising determining an optimal random distribution for parameter selection, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters for all of the training set of medical scans are generated in accordance with the optimal random distribution.
14. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 12, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the intensity transformation augmentation system to: receive random distribution parameter data from a client device, wherein the random distribution parameter data corresponds to user input in response to a prompt displayed via a user interface on a display device that corresponds to the client device, wherein the non-uniform random distribution utilized to generate the random intensity transformation function parameters corresponds to the random distribution parameter data.
15. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 12, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the intensity transformation augmentation system to: determine a set of random distributions for parameter selection; and select one of the set of random distributions for each medical scan of the training set of medical scans, based on metadata of the each medical scan of the training set of medical scans, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are generated for the corresponding medical scan in accordance with the one of the set of random distributions.
16. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein the operational instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the intensity transformation augmentation system to: determine a set of random distributions for parameter selection, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are generated in accordance with each of the set of random distributions for the each of the training set of medical scans to generate the plurality of augmented images.
17. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 16, wherein the set of random distributions each have mean parameter values corresponding to one of a set of windowing functions, and wherein each of the set of windowing functions is based on density properties of a corresponding one of a plurality of different anatomy features.
18. The intensity transform augmentation system of claim 1, wherein a set of output label data corresponding to the training set of medical scans indicates known abnormality data of the training set of medical scans, wherein performance of the training step utilizes the set of output label data, and wherein the inference data indicates at least one abnormality detected in the new medical scan.
19. A method for execution by an intensity transform augmentation system, comprising: receiving, via a receiver, a training set of medical scans; generating random intensity transformation function parameters for each medical scan of the training set of medical scans, wherein the random intensity transformation function parameters are generated in accordance with a non-uniform random distribution; generating a plurality of augmented images, wherein each of the plurality of augmented images is generated by performing an intensity transformation function on one of the training set of medical scans by utilizing the random intensity transformation function parameters generated for the one of the training set of medical scans; generating a computer vision model by performing a training step on the plurality of augmented images; receiving, via the receiver, a new medical scan; generating inference data by performing an inference function that utilizes the computer vision model on the new medical scan; and transmitting, via a transmitter, the inference data to a client device for display via a display device.
</claims>
</document>
