<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47F5/00,G01G21/22,G01G21/28,G06Q10/08,H02G3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRENKEL, ALEXANDER MICHAEL
JAVA, PUNIT NARENDRA
MEDRANO, ISMAEL
GYORI, BENJAMIN JOZEF
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62554611
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modular item stowage system
</title>

<abstract>
Inventory locations such as shelves in a materials handling facility may be used to store items of various shapes and sizes. Described is a modular item stowage system with hardware that incorporates several components that may be readily reconfigured to accommodate changes in store layout, product presentation, and so forth. The components may include one or more of an instrumented auto-facing unit, divider, spacer, and so forth. The hardware may also support onboard electronics such as sensors to acquire sensor data and computing devices to process the sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a platform including: a shelf base within an upper portion of the platform, the shelf base comprising a cable recess; and a plurality of weight sensors located beneath the shelf base to generate weight data about a load on the platform; a first modular element coupled to the platform, the first modular element including at least one sensor; and a camera configured to acquire images of one or more items stowed on at least a portion of the platform.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the first modular element includes at least one or more of: a divider, a spacer, a hanger, a bin, or an auto-facing unit; and the first modular element is coupled to the platform via mechanical coupling that includes use of one or more of a plurality of back engagement features arranged along a back of the platform, one or more of a plurality of front engagement features arranged along a front of the platform, one or more magnets, or gravity.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a support member, the support member comprising an upright member with one or more slots or engagement features; a platform base support to support mounting of the platform to the support member; and a platform base affixed to the platform base support, wherein the platform rests upon the platform base, and wherein the plurality of weight sensors provide an interface between the platform and the platform base.
4. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a second modular element coupled to the platform, wherein: the first modular element and the second modular element have a common depth from front to back; the first modular element has a first width that represents a first integer multiple of a minimum size increment; and the second modular element has a second width that represents a second integer multiple of the minimum size increment.
5. A system comprising: a support member; a platform base support; a first platform mounted to the support member using the platform base support; a second platform mounted to the support member, the second platform including: a shelf base; and a plurality of weight sensors to generate weight data about a load on the second platform; a first modular element coupled to the second platform; and a camera mounted to the platform base support of the first platform, the camera having a field of view that includes at least a portion of the second platform.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein: the first modular element is coupled to the second platform via mechanical coupling that includes use of one or more engagement features, one or more magnets, or gravity; and the one or more engagement features including one or more of: a slot, a recess, a hook, a tab, a peg, a latch, a rail, a lip, a bar, a rod, a tube, a ferrous material, or a magnet.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein a width of the first modular element is a first integer multiple of a minimum size increment; and the system further comprising a second modular element coupled to the second platform, wherein a width of the second modular element is a second integer multiple of the minimum size increment.
8. The system of claim 5, wherein: the support member comprises an upright member with one or more of slots or engagement features; and the system further comprising: a second platform base support to support mounting of the second platform to the support member; and a platform base affixed to the second platform base support, wherein the second platform rests upon the platform base, wherein the plurality of weight sensors provide an interface between the second platform and the platform base.
9. The system of claim 5, the second platform further comprising one or more of: a cable recess within at least a portion of the shelf base, one or more drains within the cable recess, one or more connectors within the cable recess, one or more internal electronics bays arranged under the shelf base, a front lip arranged along a front of the second platform, one or more spill diverters, or a front stop.
10. The system of claim 5, further comprising: a second modular element coupled to the second platform adjacent to the first modular element, wherein the second modular element includes one or more of: a spacer to cover a portion of the second platform from a front of the second platform to a back of the second platform, a divider with vertical walls to constrain one or more items held by the second modular element from an adjacent modular element on a side opposite the second modular element, a hanger to hang items, a bin to stow items, or an auto-facing unit to hold items.
11. The system of claim 5, wherein the first modular element comprises: an instrumented auto-facing unit; one or more sensors to generate sensor data; and a data cable plugged into a connector to transfer the sensor data.
12. A system comprising: a support member; a first platform mounted to the support member; a second platform mounted to the support member below the first platform, the second platform including: a plurality of weight sensors to measure weight of a load on the second platform; and a plurality of engagement features to engage one or more modular elements; and a camera mounted to a bottom of the first platform, the camera having a field of view that includes at least a portion of the second platform.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a first modular element to hold one or more items, the first modular element coupled to the second platform using at least a portion of the plurality of engagement features.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein a width of the first modular element is a first integer multiple of a minimum size increment; and the system further comprising a second modular element coupled to the second platform using at least a second portion of the plurality of engagement features, wherein a width of the second modular element is a second integer multiple of the minimum size increment.
15. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a platform base support to support mounting of the second platform to the support member; a platform base affixed to the platform base support; and wherein the second platform is supported above the platform base using the plurality of weight sensors.
16. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a cable recess within the second platform, wherein the cable recess contains at least one incursion having at least one of the plurality of weight sensors emplaced within the incursion.
17. The system of claim 12, the second platform further comprising one or more of: a cable recess within the second platform, one or more drains within the cable recess, one or more connectors within the cable recess, one or more internal electronics bays arranged under a base shelf, a front lip arranged along a front of the second platform, one or more spill diverters, or a front stop.
18. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a first modular element coupled to the second platform; a second modular element coupled to the second platform; and wherein each of the first modular element and the second modular element comprises one or more of: a spacer to cover a portion of the second platform from a front of the second platform to a back of the second platform, a divider with vertical walls to constrain movement of items held by adjacent modular elements, a hanger to hang items from, a bin to stow items, or an auto-facing unit.
19. The system of claim 12, the plurality of engagement features including one or more of: a slot, a hook, a tab, a bar, a peg, a latch, a rail, a lip, a bar, a rod, a tube, a ferrous material, or a magnet.
20. The system of claim 12, the second platform further comprising: a cable recess within the second platform; a plurality of connectors arranged within the cable recess; and a first modular element comprising: an instrumented auto-facing unit; one or more sensors to generate sensor data; and a cable extending from an underside of the first modular element, wherein a first end of the cable is affixed to the first modular element at a front half of a platform base and a second end of the cable terminates in a plug to engage at least one of the plurality of connectors and transfer the sensor data between the one or more sensors and one or more devices in the second platform.
</claims>
</document>
