<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/00,G06Q30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GORNY, TOMAS
NEXTIVA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GORNY, TOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65361280
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Communications platform system
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are disclosed and include databases that store data describing electronic communication between one or more user devices and one or more company devices and a computer. The computer displays a graphical user interface for monitoring communication activity of one or more one or more user devices and one or more company devices, to one or more company devices and monitors communication activity over one or more communication channels. The computer also records and stores the communication activity in the databases. The computer further displays a list of rules, the list of rules comprising triggers, conditions and actions for each of the one or more rules and a flow of each rule associated with the company of the one or more company devices and executes one or more actions responsive to one or more triggers, conditions or actions of each of the one or more rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: one or more databases that stores data describing electronic communication between one or more company devices associated with a company and one or more user devices; and a computer coupled with the one or more databases and configured to: display, by the one or more company devices, a graphical user interface for monitoring communication activity of the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices; monitor the communication activity of the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices over one or more communication channels; responsive to the communication activity over the one or more communication channels, record the communication activity and store the recorded communication activity in the one or more databases; process the recorded communication activity to determine the content of the recorded communication activity; identify, with a configurable rules engine and in response to the determined content of the recorded communication activity, a list and a flow of one or more rules, the list comprising one or more triggers, conditions, and actions for each of the one or more rules, and the flow of each of the one or more rules comprising one or more elements and one or more branches constructed by a user of the one or more user devices; display, on the graphical user interface, the list and the flow of one or more rules; and responsive to the one or more triggers, conditions, and actions for each of the one or more rules, execute at least one action of the one or more triggers, conditions, and actions.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the computer is further configured to associate the one or more communication activities with one or more cases.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the computer is further configured to generate one or more reports based, at least in part, on one or more predefined keywords.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the computer is configured to record the communication activity by: recording and storing a time, duration, date, and type of the one or more communication channels of the communication activity in the one or more databases.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the computer is further configured to: determine whether the type of a communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call; responsive to determining that the communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call, transcribe the telephone call between the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices as an interaction; and associate the transcribed interaction with the one or more cases.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices comprise one or more of: a work station; a personal computer; a network computer; a laptop computer; a notebook computer; a tablet-type device; a smartphone; and a communication terminal.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more communication channels comprises one or more of: a telephone call; an email; an instant message; a chat message; a text message; a posting on social media; a blog; and a newsgroup.
8. A computer-implemented method, comprising: displaying, by one or more company devices associated with a company, a graphical user interface for monitoring communication activity of one or more user devices and the one or more company devices; monitoring the communication activity of the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices over one or more communication channels; responsive to the communication activity over the one or more communication channels, recording the communication activity and storing the recorded communication activity in the one or more databases; processing the recorded communication activity to determine the content of the recorded communication activity; identifying, with a configurable rules engine and in response to the determined content of the recorded communication activity, a list and a flow of one or more rules, the list comprising one or more triggers, conditions, and actions for each of the one or more rules, and the flow of each of the one or more rules comprising one or more elements and one or more branches constructed by a user of the one or more user devices; displaying, on the graphical user interface, the list and the flow of one or more rules; and responsive to the one or more triggers, conditions and actions for each of the one or more rules, executing at least one action of the one or more triggers, conditions, and actions.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, further comprising associating the one or more communication activities with one or more cases.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising generating one or more reports based, at least in part, on one or more predefined keywords.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, wherein recording the communication activity comprises recording and storing a time, duration, date, and type of the one or more communication channels of the communication activity in the one or more databases.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: determining whether the type of a communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call; responsive to determining that the communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call, transcribing the telephone call between the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices as an interaction; and associating the transcribed interaction with the one or more cases.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices comprise one or more of: a work station; a personal computer; a network computer; a laptop computer; a notebook computer; a tablet-type device; a smartphone; and a communication terminal.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the one or more communication channels comprises one or more of: a telephone call; an email; an instant message; a chat message; a text message; a posting on social media; a blog; and a newsgroup.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium embodied with software, the software when executed: displays, by one or more company devices associated with a company, a graphical user interface for monitoring communication activity of one or more user devices and the one or more company devices; monitors the communication activity of the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices over one or more communication channels; responsive to the communication activity over the one or more communication channels, records the communication activity and stores the recorded communication activity in the one or more databases; processes the recorded communication activity to determine the content of the recorded communication activity; identifies, with a configurable rules engine and in response to the determined content of the recorded communication activity, a list and a flow of one or more rules, the list comprising one or more triggers, conditions, and actions for each of the one or more rules, and the flow of each of the one or more rules comprising one or more elements and one or more branches constructed by a user of the one or more user devices; displays, on the graphical user interface, the list and the flow of one or more rules; and responsive to the one or more triggers, conditions, and actions for each of the one or more rules, executes at least one action of the one or more triggers, conditions, and actions.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the software when executed further: associates the one or more communication activities with one or more cases.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the software when executed further: generates one or more reports based, at least in part, on one or more predefined keywords.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the software records the communication activity by: recording and storing a time, duration, date, and type of the one or more communication channels of the communication activity in the one or more databases.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the software when executed further: determines whether the type of a communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call; responsive to determining that the communication channel of the one or more communication channels is a telephone call, transcribes the telephone call between the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices as an interaction; and associates the transcribed interaction with the one or more cases.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the one or more user devices and the one or more company devices comprise one or more of: a work station; a personal computer; a network computer; a laptop computer; a notebook computer; a tablet-type device; a smartphone; and a communication terminal.
</claims>
</document>
