<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/70,G06F16/23,G06F16/27
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NANT HOLDINGS IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOON-SHIONG, PATRICK
WIACEK, JOHN
Witchey, Nicholas J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70727318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed ledger tracking of event data
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques including data collection, organization and usage are provided, including in connection with computer-based gaming. Methods and systems are provided for establishing a set of data chronicling at least a portion of a duration of a computer-based gaming event that includes at least one user engaging in gaming using a computer or a computer-based device. Event data is obtained for chronicling chronologically ordered in-game events. Hardware and software related data is obtained that relates to the computer or the computer-based device and is relevant to the chronicling of the portion of the gaming event. Utilizing a distributed ledger technology or blockchain, the event data and the hardware and software related data are recorded in establishing the set of data chronicling at least a portion of the duration of the gaming event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for establishing a set of data chronicling at least a portion of a duration of a computer-based gaming event, the gaming event including at least one gamer engaging in gaming using a computer or a computer-based device, comprising: obtaining event data for chronicling chronologically ordered in-game events occurring during the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; obtaining hardware and software related data associated with the computer or the computer-based device and relevant to chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; and facilitating, utilizing a ledger data structure, recording the event data and the hardware and software related data in establishing the set of data chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ledger data structure comprises at least one of the following: a blockchain and a distributed ledger.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing at least one of: a Hyperledger technique, an Openchain technique, a The Tangle technique, an IOTA technique, an open source technique, a directed acyclic graph-utilizing technique, a hashgraph-utilizing technique, a hash chain-utilizing technique, and a Markov chain-utilizing technique.
4. A system for establishing a set of data chronicling at least a portion of a duration of a computer-based gaming event, the event including at least one gamer engaging in gaming using a computer or a computer-based device, comprising: one or more processors and a memory storing software instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: obtain event data for chronicling chronologically ordered in-game events occurring during the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; and obtain hardware and software related data associated with the computer or the computer-based device and relevant to chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; and facilitate, utilizing a ledger data structure, recording the event data and the hardware and software related data in establishing the set of data chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the ledger data structure comprises at least one of the following: a blockchain and a distributed ledger.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein obtaining hardware and software related data associated with the computer or the computer-based device comprises obtaining at least one of: network traffic data, data regarding applications, and other data served to or run on the computer or the computer-based device as a client.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing a private blockchain technique.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing a blockchain technique utilizing at least one of proof of work or proof of stake.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing at least one of: a Hyperledger technique, an Openchain technique, a The Tangle technique, an IOTA technique, an open source technique, a directed acyclic graph-utilizing technique, a hashgraph-utilizing technique, a hash chain-utilizing technique, and a Markov chain-utilizing technique.
10. The system of claim 4, wherein establishing the set of data comprises at least one of: establishing a set of multiple chains of blocks for chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event and establishing a single chain of blocks, each of the blocks having multiple threads, for chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
11. The system of claim 4, wherein the gaming event is at least one of: a gambling or casino related gaming event, a video game event, a professional gaming event, and an eSports event.
12. The system of claim 4, wherein obtaining the hardware and software related data comprises obtaining at least one of: data regarding hardware associated with the computer or the computer-based device and data regarding hardware associated with one or more servers utilized in game-related serving associated with the gaming.
13. The system of claim 4, wherein obtaining the hardware and software related data comprises obtaining at least one of: data regarding software associated with the computer or the computer-based device and data regarding software associated with one or more servers utilized in game-related serving associated with the gaming.
14. The system of claim 4, wherein the set of data enables determining, checking, or confirming the accurateness of particular factual information associated with the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
15. The system of claim 4, wherein the set of data enables reconstructing one or more aspects of the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
16. The system of claim 4, wherein the set of data enables establishing one or more aspects of gaming status that existed at various points in time during the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
17. The system of claim 4, wherein the set of data enables preventing cheating relating to the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
18. A non-transitory computer readable medium or media containing instructions for executing a method for establishing a set of data chronicling at least a portion of a duration of a computer-based gaming event, the gaming event including at least one gamer engaging in gaming using a computer or a computer-based device, comprising: obtaining event data for chronicling chronologically ordered in-game events occurring during the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; obtaining hardware and software related data relating to the computer or the computer-based device and relevant to chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event; and facilitating, utilizing a ledger data structure, recording the event data and the hardware and software related data in establishing the set of data chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
19. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the ledger data structure comprises at least one of a blockchain and a distributed ledger.
20. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein obtaining hardware and software related data associated with the computer or the computer-based device comprises obtaining at least one of: network traffic data, data regarding applications, and other data served to or run on the computer or the computer-based device as a client.
21. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing a private blockchain technique.
22. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing a blockchain technique utilizing at least one of proof of work or proof of stake.
23. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein utilizing the ledger data structure comprises utilizing at least one of: a Hyperledger technique, an Openchain technique, a The Tangle technique, an IOTA technique, an open source technique, a directed acyclic graph-utilizing technique, a hashgraph-utilizing technique, a hash chain-utilizing technique, and a Markov chain-utilizing technique.
24. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein establishing the set of data comprises at least one of: establishing a set of multiple chains of blocks for chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event and establishing a single chain of blocks, each of the blocks having multiple threads, for chronicling the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
25. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the gaming event is at least one of: a gambling or casino related gaming event, a video game event, a professional gaming event, and an eSports event.
26. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein obtaining the hardware and software related data comprises obtaining at least one of: data regarding hardware associated with the computer or the computer-based device and data regarding hardware associated with one or more servers utilized in game-related serving associated with the gaming.
27. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein obtaining the hardware and software related data comprises obtaining at least one of: data regarding software associated with the computer or the computer-based device and data regarding software associated with one or more servers utilized in game-related serving associated with the gaming.
28. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the set of data enables determining, checking, or confirming the accurateness of particular factual information associated with the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
29. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the set of data enables reconstructing one or more aspects of the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
30. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the set of data enables establishing one or more aspects of gaming status that existed at various points in time during the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
31. The computer readable medium or media of claim 18, wherein the set of data enables preventing cheating relating to the at least the portion of the duration of the gaming event.
</claims>
</document>
