<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06Q40/08,G06T7/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARVEY, BRIAN N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332395
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for hail damage verification on rooftops using computer vision and artificial intelligence
</title>

<abstract>
A computer system for verifying hail damage and/or detecting hail fraud includes a processor and a non-transitory, tangible, computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations including: (i) receiving at least one image of at least a portion of a rooftop; (ii) analyzing the at least one image to identify a plurality of damaged locations; (iii) analyzing damaged locations to determine a distance between each of the damaged locations; and (iv) determining, based upon the analyzing, whether the damaged locations are a result of hail damage by determining the distance between at least some of damaged locations.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A computer system for verifying hail damage using computer vision and artificial intelligence, the computer system comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory, tangible, computer-readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at least one image of at least a portion of a single rooftop; analyzing the at least one image to identify a plurality of damaged locations in a selected damage area on the single rooftop; analyzing, using at least one of a computer vision and an artificial intelligence algorithm, the plurality of damaged locations to determine (i) a distance between each of the plurality of damaged locations and (ii) a positioning of each damaged location relative to one another; comparing, based upon the analysis, (i) the distance between at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another and (ii) the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another; determining, based upon the comparison, whether the distance and the positioning between each damaged location of the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform relative to one another; and if, based upon the determination, the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are not substantially uniform, determining that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining that the plurality of damaged locations are not the result of hail damage when the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform.
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising analyzing the plurality of damaged locations to determine a shape and a size of each of the plurality of damaged locations.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are not a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of mechanical damage delivered by an individual.
6. The computer system of claim 4, wherein at least one of the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations is associated with mechanical damage delivered by a tool.
7. The computer system of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations not being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
8. The computer system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the plurality of damaged locations using an artificial intelligence algorithm comprises implementing a machine learning algorithm to compare the plurality of damaged locations to a plurality of patterns and shapes associated with known hail damage.
9. The computer system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the plurality of damaged locations using a computer vision algorithm comprises implementing an image recognition algorithm to identify variations in an impact signature of each of the plurality of damaged locations.
10. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising receiving at least one image of a soft metal component mounted on the single rooftop.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising analyzing the at least one image of the soft metal component to identify at least one damaged location in the soft metal component.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining, in response to the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations in the soft metal component are a result of hail damage.
13. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising analyzing the at least one image of the soft metal component to determine that the soft metal component is undamaged.
14. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to perform operations comprising determining, in response to the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are not a result of hail damage.
15. A computer-implemented method for verifying hail damage using computer vision and artificial intelligence, the method implemented using a computer system including a processor in communication with at least one memory, the method comprising: receiving at least one image of at least a portion of a single rooftop; analyzing the at least one image to identify a plurality of damaged locations in a selected damage area on the single rooftop; analyzing, using at least one of a computer vision and an artificial intelligence algorithm, the plurality of damaged locations to (i) determine a distance between each of the plurality of damaged locations and (ii) a positioning of each damaged location relative to one another; comparing, based upon the analysis, (i) the distance between at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another and (ii) the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another; determining, based upon the comparison, whether the distance and the positioning between each damaged location of the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform relative to one another; and if, based upon the determination, the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are not substantially uniform, determining that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein said determining comprises determining that the plurality of damaged locations are not the result of hail damage when the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15 further comprising analyzing the plurality of damaged locations to determine a shape and a size of each of the plurality of damaged locations.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17 further comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are not a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17 comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations not being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein analyzing the plurality of damaged locations using an artificial intelligence algorithm comprises implementing a machine learning algorithm to compare the plurality of damaged locations to a plurality of patterns and shapes associated with known hail damage.
21. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by a computer system including at least one processor in communication with a memory, the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to perform operations comprising: receiving at least one image of at least a portion of a single rooftop; analyzing the at least one image to identify a plurality of damaged locations in a selected damage area on the single rooftop; analyzing, using at least one of a computer vision and an artificial intelligence algorithm, the plurality of damaged locations to (i) determine a distance between each of the plurality of damaged locations and (ii) a positioning of each damaged location relative to one another; comparing, based upon the analysis, (i) the distance between at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another and (ii) the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations to one another; determining, based upon the comparison, whether the distance and the positioning between each damaged location of the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform relative to one another; and if, based upon the determination, the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are not substantially uniform, determining that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage.
22. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 21, wherein the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to perform operations further comprising determining that the plurality of damaged locations are not the result of hail damage when the distance and the positioning for the at least some of the plurality of damaged locations are substantially uniform.
23. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage claim 21, wherein the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to perform operations further comprising analyzing the plurality of damaged locations to determine a shape and a size of each of the plurality of damaged locations.
24. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage claim 23, wherein the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to perform operations further comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are not a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
25. The at least one non-transitory computer-readable storage claim 23, wherein the computer-executable instructions cause the at least one processor to perform operations further comprising determining, based upon the analyzing, that the plurality of damaged locations are a result of hail damage based upon the shape and the size of at least one of the plurality of damaged locations not being substantially identical to the shape and the size of at least one other damaged location of the plurality of damaged locations.
</claims>
</document>
