<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G06N7/00,G08G9/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HRL LABORATORIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEPP, NIGEL D.
JAMMALAMADAKA, ARUNA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68161778
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Neuronal network topology for computing conditional probabilities
</title>

<abstract>
Described is a system for estimating conditional probabilities for operation of a mobile device. Input data streams from first and second mobile device sensors are input into a neuronal network, where the first and second input data streams are converted into variable spiking rates of first and second neurons. The system learns a conditional probability between the first and second input data streams. A synaptic weight of interest between the first and second neurons converges to a fixed-point value, where the fixed-point value corresponds to the conditional probability. Based on the conditional probability and a new input data stream, a probability of an event is estimated. Based on the probability of the event, the system causes the mobile device to perform a mobile device operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for estimating conditional probabilities for operation of a mobile device, the system comprising: one or more processors and a non-transitory computer-readable medium having executable instructions encoded thereon such that when executed, the one or more processors perform operations of: inputting a first input data stream obtained from a first mobile device sensor and a second input data stream obtained from a second mobile device sensor into a neuronal network comprising a plurality of neurons, wherein the first and second input data streams are converted into variable spiking rates of a first neuron and a second neuron; learning a conditional probability between the first input data stream and the second input data stream, wherein a synaptic weight of interest between the first neuron and the second neuron converges to a fixed-point value corresponding to the conditional probability; based on the conditional probability and a new input data stream, estimating a probability of an event; and based on the probability of the event, causing the mobile device to perform a mobile device operation.
2. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the mobile device operation is a collision avoidance maneuver.
3. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the mobile device operation is generation of an alert providing instructions to a mobile device operator.
4. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein the synaptic weight of interest is updated each time either of the first and second neurons spike according to spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), causing a corresponding update in the conditional probability such that the conditional probability is adapted in real-time.
5. The system as set forth in claim 4, wherein all synaptic connections between neurons in the neuronal network have a predetermined delay, and wherein all synaptic weights besides the synaptic weight of interest are fixed at a value such that only the synaptic weight of interest is updated according to STDP.
6. The system as set forth in claim 5, wherein an increment or decrement in the synaptic weight of interest due to spikes in the first neuron causing spikes in the second neuron is set to a constant value that is a multiplier on a change in the synaptic weight of interest.
7. The system as set forth in claim 1, wherein tonic and phasic inputs are used to stabilize the synaptic weight of interest.
8. A computer implemented method for estimating conditional probabilities for operation of a mobile device, the method comprising an act of: causing one or more processers to execute instructions encoded on a non-transitory computer-readable medium, such that upon execution, the one or more processors perform operations of: inputting a first input data stream obtained from a first mobile device sensor and a second input data stream obtained from a second mobile device sensor into a neuronal network comprising a plurality of neurons, wherein the first and second input data streams are converted into variable spiking rates of a first neuron and a second neuron; learning a conditional probability between the first input data stream and the second input data stream, wherein a synaptic weight of interest between the first neuron and the second neuron converges to a fixed-point value corresponding to the conditional probability; based on the conditional probability and a new input data stream, estimating a probability of an event; and based on the probability of the event, causing the mobile device to perform a mobile device operation.
9. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the mobile device operation is a collision avoidance maneuver.
10. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the mobile device operation is generation of an alert providing instructions to a mobile device operator.
11. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein the synaptic weight of interest is updated each time either of the first and second neurons spike according to spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), causing a corresponding update in the conditional probability such that the conditional probability is adapted in real-time.
12. The method as set forth in claim 11, wherein all synaptic connections between neurons in the neuronal network have a predetermined delay, and wherein all synaptic weights besides the synaptic weight of interest are fixed at a value such that only the synaptic weight of interest is updated according to STDP.
13. The method as set forth in claim 12, wherein an increment or decrement in the synaptic weight of interest due to spikes in the first neuron causing spikes in the second neuron is set to a constant value that is a multiplier on a change in the synaptic weight of interest.
14. The method as set forth in claim 8, wherein tonic and phasic inputs are used to stabilize the synaptic weight of interest.
15. A computer program product for estimating conditional probabilities for operation of a mobile device, the computer program product comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having executable instructions encoded thereon, such that upon execution of the instructions by one or more processors, the one or more processors perform operations of: inputting a first input data stream obtained from a first mobile device sensor and a second input data stream obtained from a second mobile device sensor into a neuronal network comprising a plurality of neurons, wherein the first and second input data streams are converted into variable spiking rates of a first neuron and a second neuron; learning a conditional probability between the first input data stream and the second input data stream, wherein a synaptic weight of interest between the first neuron and the second neuron converges to a fixed-point value corresponding to the conditional probability; based on the conditional probability and a new input data stream, estimating a probability of an event; and based on the probability of the event, causing the mobile device to perform a mobile device operation.
16. The computer program product as set forth in claim 15, wherein the synaptic weight of interest is updated each time either of the first and second neurons spike according to spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP), causing a corresponding update in the conditional probability such that the conditional probability is adapted in real-time.
17. The computer program product as set forth in claim 16, wherein all synaptic connections between neurons in the neuronal network have a predetermined delay, and wherein all synaptic weights besides the synaptic weight of interest are fixed at a value such that only the synaptic weight of interest is updated according to STDP.
18. The computer program product as set forth in claim 17, wherein an increment or decrement in the synaptic weight of interest due to spikes in the first neuron causing spikes in the second neuron is set to a constant value that is a multiplier on a change in the synaptic weight of interest.
19. The computer program product as set forth in claim 15, wherein tonic and phasic inputs are used to stabilize the synaptic weight of interest.
20. A neuromorphic hardware chip for estimating conditional probabilities for a mobile device operation, the neuromorphic hardware chip performing operations of: inputting a first input data stream obtained from a first mobile device sensor and a second input data stream obtained from a second mobile device sensor into a neuronal network comprising a plurality of neurons, wherein the first and second input data streams are converted into variable spiking rates of a first neuron and a second neuron; learning a conditional probability between the first input data stream and the second input data stream, wherein a synaptic weight of interest between the first neuron and the second neuron converges to a fixed-point value corresponding to the conditional probability; based on the conditional probability and a new input data stream, estimating a probability of an event; and based on the probability of the event, causing the mobile device to perform a mobile device operation.
</claims>
</document>
