<document>

<filing_date>
2014-12-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/00,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
WHITLEY, MICHAEL D.
RIENDEAU, JOHN A.
ZHANG, LE
MERDIVAN, ERINC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56106796
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Inferred facts discovered through knowledge graph derived contextual overlays
</title>

<abstract>
An approach is provided in which a knowledge manager identifies a first cohort type and a second cohort type corresponding to an entity included in a question. The knowledge manager determines inferred states to the question by comparing a first set of cohort attributes corresponding to a first cohort type against entity attributes corresponding to the question. In turn, the knowledge manager generates possible answers by comparing the inferred states against a second set of cohort attributes corresponding to a second cohort type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An information handling system comprising: one or more processors; a memory coupled to at least one of the processors; and a set of computer program instructions stored in the memory and executed by at least one of the processors in order to perform actions of: receiving a question that comprises an entity; determining a deficiency of factual information in a knowledge base to the question; in response to determining the deficiency of factual information: identifying one or more entity attributes by traversing a knowledge graph corresponding to the knowledge base; selecting a plurality of cohort types corresponding to the entity based upon the one or more entity attributes, wherein the plurality of cohort types include a first cohort type and a second cohort type that is different from the first cohort type; determining one or more inferred states to the question by comparing a first set of cohort attributes corresponding to the first cohort type against the one or more entity attributes corresponding to the entity; in response to the determining of the one or more inferred states, evaluating the one or more inferred states against a second set of cohort attributes corresponding to the second cohort type; in response to the evaluating, generating one or more possible answers to the question, wherein the one or more possible answers are based on an inference between the entity, the first cohort, and the second cohort; and providing the possible answers to a user.
2. The information handling system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors perform additional actions comprising: computing one of a plurality of probability values for each of the one or more possible answers based upon evaluating the one or more possible answers against the one or more entity attributes; and ranking the one or more possible answers based upon the plurality of probability values.
3. The information handling system of claim 2 wherein the one or more processors perform additional actions comprising: assigning a weighting value to one of the plurality of cohort types based upon the one or more entity attributes; and factoring the assigned weighting value into the computing of at least one of the plurality of probability values.
4. The information handling system of claim 2 wherein the one or more processors perform additional actions comprising: generating one or more candidate answers corresponding to the one or more possible answers, wherein each of the one or more candidate answers include a corresponding one of the plurality of probability values and at least one document link that identifies a document that supports the corresponding probability value.
5. The information handling system of claim 1 wherein the one or more processors perform additional actions comprising: traversing the knowledge graph to locate the first set of cohort attributes and the second set of cohort attributes.
6. The information handling system of claim 1 wherein each of the plurality of cohort types corresponds to a grouping of individuals having a common statistical factor.
7. A computer program product stored in a computer readable storage medium, comprising computer program code that, when executed by an information handling system, causes the information handling system to perform actions comprising: receiving a question that comprises an entity; determining a deficiency of factual information in a knowledge base to the question; in response to determining the deficiency of factual information: identifying one or more entity attributes by traversing a knowledge graph corresponding to the knowledge base; selecting a plurality of cohort types corresponding to the entity based upon the one or more entity attributes, wherein the plurality of cohort types include a first cohort type and a second cohort type that is different from the first cohort type; determining one or more inferred states to the question by comparing a first set of cohort attributes corresponding to the first cohort type against the one or more entity attributes corresponding to the entity; in response to the determining of the one or more inferred states, evaluating the one or more inferred states against a second set of cohort attributes corresponding to the second cohort type; in response to the evaluating, generating one or more possible answers to the question, wherein the one or more possible answers are based on an inference between the entity, the first cohort, and the second cohort; and providing the possible answers to a user.
8. The computer program product of claim 7 wherein the information handling system performs additional actions comprising: computing one of a plurality of probability values for each of the one or more possible answers based upon evaluating the one or more possible answers against the one or more entity attributes; and ranking the one or more possible answers based upon the plurality of probability values.
9. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the information handling system performs additional actions comprising: assigning a weighting value to one of the plurality of cohort types based upon the one or more entity attributes; and factoring the assigned weighting value into the computing of at least one of the plurality of probability values.
10. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the information handling system performs additional actions comprising: generating one or more candidate answers corresponding to the one or more possible answers, wherein each of the one or more candidate answers include a corresponding one of the plurality of probability values and at least one document link that identifies a document that supports the corresponding probability value.
11. The computer program product of claim 7 wherein the information handling system performs additional actions comprising: traversing the knowledge graph to locate the first set of cohort attributes and the second set of cohort attributes.
12. The computer program product of claim 7 wherein each of the plurality of cohort types corresponds to a grouping of individuals having a common statistical factor.
</claims>
</document>
