<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/00,G06F11/30,G06F11/32,G06F11/34,G06N5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
TIWARI, AWADESH
KOWTA, RAMSHANKER
KIZHAKOOT RAMACHANDRAN, JAYACHANDRAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66533932
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System to manage economics and operational dynamics of IT systems and infrastructure in a multi-vendor service environment
</title>

<abstract>
A method is provided to manage economics and operational dynamics of various information technology (IT) systems. A computer collects data indicative of operation of a plurality of hardware components and collects data indicative of operation of a plurality of software components. The computer creates a first qualitative value representing a hardware status of the plurality of the hardware components and a second qualitative value representing a software status of the plurality of the software components. The first and second qualitative values are displayed in graphical form for evaluation by a system operator, and the computer computes a probability of life expectancy for the plurality of hardware components and the plurality of software components based on said first and second qualitative values and utilizing cognitive and artificial intelligence based calculations to determine the probability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method to manage economics and operational dynamics of various information technology (IT) systems, the method comprising: collecting, by a computer, first data indicative of operation of a plurality of hardware components; collecting, by said computer, second data indicative of operation of a plurality of software components; evaluating, by said computer, said first and second data using fuzzy logic to determine dynamic limits of various system conditions indicative of operating performance of said plurality of said hardware and software components; applying, by said computer, said various system conditions to a multiple input, multiple output model of analysis to determine a residual useful life value for said plurality of hardware and software components; performing, by the computer, a closed-loop analysis in the form of a probability density function (PDF) for real-time data related to said plurality of said hardware and software components to determine a number of times probability of failure has exceeded a predetermined threshold; creating, by the computer, a first qualitative value representing a hardware status of the plurality of said hardware components and a second qualitative value representing a software status of the plurality of said software components; displaying, by the computer, said first and second qualitative values in graphical form for evaluation by a system operator; and computing, by the computer, a probability of life expectancy for said plurality of said hardware components and said plurality of said software components based on said first and second qualitative values and utilizing cognitive and artificial intelligence based calculations to determine said probability.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: delivering data associated with said performing as a PDF value to an expert system for computing a probability of failure of at least one of said hardware and software components over a fixed period of time.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: an expert report generating an output in a form of a risk score for said plurality of said hardware and software components.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said risk score is indicative of an intensity of a failure probability.
5. The method claim 4, further comprising calculating said risk score based on a formula represented by an individual Asset Risk Scorea1 equal to β0a1+X1a1+β2a1X2a1+ . . . +βna1Xna1, where β0a1, β1a1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and X1a1, X2a1 etc. are variables and a cumulative risk score represented by Cumulative Asset Risk Score=θ0+θ1Risk Scorea1+θ2Risk Scorea2+ . . . +θnRisk Scorean, where θ0, θ1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and Risk Scorea1, Risk Scorea2 etc. are individual risk scores for respective assets.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: collecting said first and second data from first sensors arranged physically on said hardware components and second sensors detecting operation of said software components.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying, in addition to said fuzzy logic, a principal component analysis (PCA) to create dominant features and regenerating input and state matrices, wherein said PCA uses an orthogonal transformation to convert a set of observations of possibly correlated variables into a set of values of linearly uncorrelated variables.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining said probability of life expectancy to include a forecast of issues for a next X days, a trend of resource contentions, a sequence of processes to avoid contention, maintenance recommendations, optimal maintenance schedule, and economic optimization.
9. A computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage device; and a computer-readable program code stored in the computer-readable storage device, the computer readable program code containing instructions executable by a processor of a computer system to implement a method to manage economics and operational dynamics of various information technology (IT) systems, the method comprising: collecting first data indicative of operation of a plurality of hardware components; collecting second data indicative of operation of a plurality of software components; evaluating said first and second data using fuzzy logic to determine dynamic limits of various system conditions indicative of operating performance of said plurality of said hardware and software components; applying said various system conditions to a multiple input, multiple output model of analysis to determine a residual useful life value for said plurality of hardware and software components; performing a closed-loop analysis in the form of a probability density function (PDF) for real-time data related to said plurality of said hardware and software components to determine a number of times probability of failure has exceeded a predetermined threshold; creating a first qualitative value representing a hardware status of the plurality of said hardware components and a second qualitative value representing a software status of the plurality of said software components; displaying said first and second qualitative values in graphical form for evaluation by a system operator; and computing a probability of life expectancy for said plurality of said hardware components and said plurality of said software components based on said first and second qualitative values and utilizing cognitive and artificial intelligence based calculations to determine said probability.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising: delivering data associated with said performing as a PDF value to an expert system for computing a probability of failure of at least one of said hardware and software components over a fixed period of time.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, further comprising: an expert report generating an output in a form of a risk score for said plurality of said hardware and software components.
12. The computer program product of claim 11, wherein said a risk score is indicative of an intensity of a failure probability.
13. The computer program product of claim 12, further comprising: calculating said risk score based on a formula represented by an individual Asset Risk Scorea1 equal to β0a1+X1a1+β2a1X2a1+ . . . +βna1Xna1, where β0a1, β1a1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and X1a1, X2a1 etc. are variables and a cumulative risk score represented by Cumulative Asset Risk Score=θ0+θ1Risk Scorea1+θ2Risk Scorea2+ . . . +θnRisk Scorean, where θ0, θ1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and Risk Scorea1, Risk Scorea2 etc. are individual risk scores for respective assets.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising: collecting said first and second data from first sensors arranged physically on said hardware components and second sensors detecting operation of said software components.
15. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising: applying, in addition to said fuzzy logic, a principal component analysis (PCA) to create dominant features and regenerating input and state matrices, wherein said PCA uses an orthogonal transformation to convert a set of observations of possibly correlated variables into a set of values of linearly uncorrelated variables.
16. A computer system, comprising: a processor; a memory coupled to said processor; and a computer readable storage device coupled to the processor, the storage device containing instructions executable by the processor via the memory to implement a method to manage economics and operational dynamics of various information technology (IT) systems, the method comprising: collecting first data indicative of operation of a plurality of hardware components; collecting second data indicative of operation of a plurality of software components; evaluating said first and second data using fuzzy logic to determine dynamic limits of various system conditions indicative of operating performance of said plurality of said hardware and software components; applying said various system conditions to a multiple input, multiple output model of analysis to determine a residual useful life value for said plurality of hardware and software components; performing a closed-loop analysis in the form of a probability density function (PDF) for real-time data related to said plurality of said hardware and software components to determine a number of times probability of failure has exceeded a predetermined threshold; creating a first qualitative value representing a hardware status of the plurality of said hardware components and a second qualitative value representing a software status of the plurality of said software components; displaying said first and second qualitative values in graphical form for evaluation by a system operator; and computing a probability of life expectancy for said plurality of said hardware components and said plurality of said software components based on said first and second qualitative values and utilizing cognitive and artificial intelligence based calculations to determine said probability.
17. The method of claim 16 further comprising: delivering data associated with said performing as a PDF value to an expert system for computing a probability of failure of at least one of said hardware and software components over a fixed period of time.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: an expert report generating an output in a form of a risk score for said plurality of said hardware and software components.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein said risk score is indicative of an intensity of a failure probability.
20. The method claim 19, further comprising: calculating said risk score based on the formula represented by an individual Asset Risk Scorea1 equal to β0a1+β1a1X1a1+β2a1X2a1+ . . . +βna1Xna1, where β0a1, β1a1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and X1a1, X2a1 etc. are variables and a cumulative risk score represented by Cumulative Asset Risk Score=θ0+θ1Risk Scorea1+θ2Risk Scorea2+ . . . +θnRisk Scorean, where θ0, θ1 etc. are coefficients determined by regression techniques and Risk Scorea1, Risk Scorea2 etc. are individual risk scores for respective assets.
</claims>
</document>
