<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04W4/00,H04W80/08,H04W84/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETSIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
AKMAN, ARDA
CIVANLAR SEYHAN
YARGICOGLU, BURCU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72663896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Open control plane function for wireless networks
</title>

<abstract>
3GPP's 5th generation mobile network (5G) standards provide a service-based architecture by widely distributing control functions as virtualized network functions (VNFs). However, the equipment and software vendors control these control plane functions in a closed-box manner. This invention provides a new control plane function called Open Control Plane Function (OCPF), which allows various control applications of operators or third parties to register to certain control functions so that they can receive and process signaling/control messages outside those control functions. With this invention, new applications can be developed to view and modify control plane behavior utilizing both traditional methods as well as upcoming Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence algorithms to provide new and innovative services that are not part of standard operator offerings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of sending one or more signaling messages generated in a mobile network, the mobile network comprising a separate control plane and user plane, the control plane comprising at least one control function, the at least one control function generating the one or more signaling messages, the one or more signaling messages transmitted to an application, the application external to the control plane and operated by a mobile operator or a third-party service provider, the method, as implemented in an Open Control Plane Function (OCPF) comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a first registration message from the at least one control function and, upon receipt of the first registration message, registering the one control function in the OCPF; (b) receiving a second registration message from the application and, upon receipt of the second registration message, registering the application in the OCPF, the registering allowing the application to receive the one or more signaling messages from the at least one control function, the one or more signaling messages pertaining to a group of users of the mobile network; (c) receiving the one or more signaling messages pertaining to the group of users from the at least one control function, the one or more signaling messages received at the at least one control function from the group of users prior to being relayed to the OCPF; and (d) relaying the one or more signaling messages to the application.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the control function belongs to control plane layer and functions of any of the following: a base station, mobile management entity (MME), access and mobility management function (AMF) and session management function (SMF).
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific protocol type.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific procedure or message sequence.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the specific procedure or message sequence relates to any of the following: an initial context setup or handover.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the second registration message at least includes an identifier of the requesting application.
7. A method of sending one or more signaling messages generated in a mobile network, the mobile network comprising a separate control plane and user plane, the control plane comprising at least one control function, the at least one control function generating the one or more signaling messages, the one or more signaling messages transmitted to an application, the application external to the control plane and operated by a mobile operator or a third-party service provider, the method, as implemented in an Open Control Plane Function (OCPF) comprising the steps of: (a) receiving a first registration message from the at least one control function and, upon receipt of the first registration message, registering the one control function in the OCPF; (b) receiving a second registration message from the application and, upon receipt of the second registration message, registering the application in the OCPF, the registering allowing the application to receive and/or modify the one or more signaling messages originating from the at least one control function, the one or more signaling messages pertaining to a group of users of the mobile network; (c) receiving from the control function a given signaling message and, upon receiving the given signaling message, control function suspending normal signaling message process for the group of users; (d) relaying the given signaling message to the application, wherein the application either generates a new signaling message or modifies the given signaling message to form a modified signaling message in response to the received given signaling message; (e) receiving the new signaling message or the modified signaling message from the application; (f) relaying the new signaling message or the modified signaling message to the control function; wherein the control function receives the new signaling message or the modified signaling message and resumes normal signaling message process with the received new signaling message or the modified signaling message for the group of users.
8. The method of claim 3, wherein the modified signaling message has at least one information element that is different than that of the given signaling message.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the control function belongs to control plane layer and functions of any of the following: a base station, mobile management entity (MME), access and mobility management function (AMF) and session management function (SMF).
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific protocol type.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific procedure or message sequence.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the specific procedure or message sequence relates to any of the following: an initial context setup or handover.
13. The method of claim 7, wherein the second registration message at least includes an identifier of a requesting application.
14. A control function of the control plane of the mobile operator, the control function comprising: (a) a first registration interface to register a plurality of external applications; (b) a first database storing information on the plurality of external applications; (c) a second registration interface to register a plurality of control functions; (d) a second database storing information on the plurality of control functions; (e) a subfunction receiving a service request of the external application for handling certain signaling messages of each of the plurality of control functions; (f) a third database storing the service request of each the external application for each message type; (g) a first control messaging interface to communicate with the plurality of external applications; (h) a second control messaging interface to communicate with the plurality of control functions; and (i) a control message processor to manage the state of each signaling message that is in the processing by said external application.
15. The control function of claim 14, wherein the first and second control messaging interfaces and the first and second registration interfaces are a single interface.
16. The control function of claim 13, wherein the first and second control messaging interfaces and the first and second registration interfaces are different interfaces.
17. An article of manufacture comprising non-transitory computer storage medium storing computer readable program code which, when executed by a processor implements a method as implemented in an Open Control Plane Function (OCPF) of sending one or more signaling messages generated in a mobile network, the mobile network comprising a separate control plane and user plane, the control plane comprising at least one control function, the at least one control function generating the one or more signaling messages, the one or more signaling messages transmitted to an application, the application external to the control plane and operated by a mobile operator or a third-party service provider, the medium comprising: (a) computer readable program code receiving a first registration message from the at least one control function and, upon receipt of the first registration message, registering the one control function in the OCPF; (b) computer readable program code receiving a second registration message from the application and, upon receipt of the second registration message, registering the application in the OCPF, the registering allowing the application to receive the one or more signaling messages from the at least one control function, the one or more signaling messages pertaining to a group of users of the mobile network; (c) computer readable program code receiving the one or more signaling messages pertaining to the group of users from the at least one control function, the one or more signaling messages received at the at least one control function from the group of users prior to being relayed to the OCPF; and (d) computer readable program code relaying the one or more signaling messages to the application.
18. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the control function belongs to control plane layers and functions of any of the following: a base station, mobile management entity (MME), access and mobility management function (AMF) and session management function (SMF).
19. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific protocol type.
20. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the first or second registration message at least includes an indication of a specific procedure or message sequence.
21. The article of manufacture of claim 20, wherein the specific procedure or message sequence relates to any of the following: an initial context setup or handover.
22. The article of manufacture of claim 17, wherein the second registration message at least includes an identifier of a requesting application.
</claims>
</document>
