<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E01C23/01,G01B11/30,G01B21/08,G01B21/20,G01B21/32,G01C7/04,G01H11/06,G01M5/00,G08G1/015
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
PASUPATHY, PRAVEENKUMAR
CLAUDEL, CHRISTIAN
PROZZI, JORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61758649
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Measuring pavement deflections using data from laser scanning sensors as well as from high precision accelerometers and gyrometers
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system and computer program product for calculating highway and airport pavement deflections. A pavement monitoring system includes a tractor and a semi-trailer, where a rigid horizontal beam is suspended under the semi-trailer. Various sensing elements are attached to the rigid beam, such as laser scanning sensors configured to measure a distance from the laser scanning sensors to the same point on the pavement at two different times, a gyrometer configured to estimate a raw pitch rate, an inertial measurement unit configured to estimate an orientation of the beam and accelerometers configured to measure an acceleration at a same level as corresponding laser scanning sensors. By utilizing these sensing elements, a more accurate pavement deflection is estimated by not relying on indirect measurements. Furthermore, the tractor and semi-trailer of the pavement monitoring system may travel at the velocity of traffic.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for calculating pavement deflections, the method comprising: receiving laser distance data from laser scanning sensors involving a distance from said laser scanning sensors to a same point on a pavement at two different times; receiving acceleration measurements from accelerometers located at a same level from corresponding laser scanning sensors relative to said pavement; performing, by a processor, a deconvolution of said laser distance data using said acceleration measurements; determining, by said processor, a vertical position of a reference point in a beam with respect to an inertial frame as well as its pitch attitude using said deconvoluted laser distance data and a compensated raw pitch rate; obtaining horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors by matching one-dimensional line scans between said laser scanning sensors; and estimating, by said processor, a pavement deflection of said pavement using a difference between said distance from said laser scanning sensors to said same point on said pavement at two different times as well as said horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors, said vertical position of said reference point in said beam as well as its pitch attitude.
2. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising: receiving an uncompensated raw pitch rate; computing a component of a Earth rotation vector on a longitudinal axis of said beam; and compensating said raw pitch rate using said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam.
3. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam is computed using an orientation of said beam with respect to a geocentric frame and a current latitude.
4. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein said uncompensated raw pitch rate is received from a pyrometer.
5. The method as recited in claim 2, wherein said orientation of said beam is provided by an inertial measurement unit and said current latitude is provided by a positioning system.
6. A computer program product for calculating pavement deflections, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program code embodied therewith, the program code comprising the programming instructions for: receiving laser distance data from laser scanning sensors involving a distance from said laser scanning sensors to a same point on a pavement at two different times; receiving acceleration measurements from accelerometers located at a same level from corresponding laser scanning sensors relative to said pavement; performing a deconvolution of said laser distance data using said acceleration measurements; determining a vertical position of a reference point in a beam with respect to an inertial frame as well as its pitch attitude using said deconvoluted laser distance data and a compensated raw pitch rate; obtaining horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors by matching one-dimensional line scans between said laser scanning sensors; and estimating a pavement deflection of said pavement using a difference between said distance from said laser scanning sensors to said same point on said pavement at two different times as well as said horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors, said vertical position of said reference point in said beam as well as its pitch attitude.
7. The computer program product as recited in claim 6, wherein the program code further comprises the programming instructions for: receiving an uncompensated raw pitch rate; computing a component of a Earth rotation vector on a longitudinal axis of said beam; and compensating said raw pitch rate using said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam.
8. The computer program product as recited in claim 7, wherein said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam is computed using an orientation of said beam with respect to a geocentric frame and a current latitude.
9. The computer program product as recited in claim 7, wherein said uncompensated raw pitch rate is received from a gyrometer.
10. The computer program product as recited in claim 7, wherein said orientation of said beam is provided by an inertial measurement unit and said current latitude is provided by a positioning system.
11. A system, comprising: a memory unit for storing a computer program for calculating pavement deflections; and a processor coupled to the memory unit, wherein the processor is configured to execute the program instructions of the computer program comprising: receiving laser distance data from laser scanning sensors involving a distance from said laser scanning sensors to a same point on a pavement at two different times; receiving acceleration measurements from accelerometers located at a same level from corresponding laser scanning sensors relative to said pavement; performing a deconvolution of said laser distance data using said acceleration measurements; determining a vertical position of a reference point in a beam with respect to an inertial frame as well as its pitch attitude using said deconvoluted laser distance data and a compensated raw pitch rate; obtaining horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors by matching one-dimensional line scans between said laser scanning sensors; and estimating a pavement deflection of said pavement using a difference between said distance from said laser scanning sensors to said same point on said pavement at two different times as well as said horizontal positions of said laser scanning sensors, said vertical position of said reference point in said beam as well as its pitch attitude.
12. The system as recited in claim 11, wherein the program instructions of the computer program further comprise: receiving an uncompensated raw pitch rate; computing a component of a Earth rotation vector on a longitudinal axis of said beam; and compensating said raw pitch rate using said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam.
13. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam is computed using an orientation of said beam with respect to a geocentric frame and a current latitude.
14. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein said uncompensated raw pitch rate is received from a gyrometer.
15. The system as recited in claim 12, wherein said orientation of said beam is provided by an inertial measurement unit and said current latitude is provided by a positioning system.
16. A pavement monitoring system, comprising: a tractor; and a semi-trailer subject to a given axle load, wherein said mobile trailer comprises a rigid horizontal beam suspended under said semi-trailer, wherein a plurality of sensing elements are connected to said beam comprising: a plurality of laser scanning sensors configured to measure a distance from said plurality of laser scanning sensors to a same point on a pavement at two different times; a gyrometer configured to estimate a raw pitch rate; an inertial measurement unit configured to estimate an orientation of said beam; and a plurality of accelerometers configured to measure an acceleration at a same level as corresponding laser scanning sensors relative to said pavement.
17. The pavement monitoring system as recited in claim 16 further comprising: a computing device comprising a memory unit for storing a computer program for calculating pavement deflections; and a processor coupled to the memory unit, wherein the processor is configured to execute the program instructions of the computer program comprising: receiving laser distance data from said plurality laser scanning sensors involving said distance from said plurality of laser scanning sensors to said same point on said pavement at two different times; receiving acceleration measurements from said plurality of accelerometers; performing a deconvolution of said laser distance data using said acceleration measurements; determining a vertical position of a reference point in said beam with respect to an inertial frame as well as its pitch attitude using said deconvoluted laser distance data and a compensated raw pitch rate; obtaining horizontal positions of said plurality of laser scanning sensors by matching one-dimensional line scans between said plurality of laser scanning sensors; and estimating a pavement deflection of said pavement using a difference between said distance from said plurality of laser scanning sensors to said same point on said pavement at two different times as well as said horizontal positions of said plurality of laser scanning sensors, said vertical position of said reference point in said beam as well as its pitch attitude.
18. The pavement monitoring system as recited in claim 17, wherein the program instructions of the computer program further comprise: receiving said raw pitch rate; computing a component of a Earth rotation vector on a longitudinal axis of said beam; and compensating said raw pitch rate using said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam.
19. The pavement monitoring system as recited in claim 18, wherein said component of said Earth rotation vector on said longitudinal axis of said beam is computed using said orientation of said beam with respect to a geocentric frame and a current latitude.
20. The pavement monitoring system as recited in claim 19, wherein said current latitude is provided by a positioning system.
</claims>
</document>
