<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01G19/40,G01G19/52,G01G21/00,G01G21/22,G01G21/23,G06Q10/08,H01R12/72,H01R13/514,H02J1/00,H05K5/00,H05K5/02,H05K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCMAHON, NICHOLAS
DE BONET, JEREMY SAMUEL
SKALOUD, BRETT ALLEN
DUESTER, THOMAS
FEIEREISEN, JEFFREY KEVIN
PFUND, DAWN MARIE
DANENBERG, MICHAEL NATHAN
TIDMAN, JAMES MERTON
SIEGEL, JACOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838936
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fixture with brackets, crossbar mechanism, and weighing module
</title>

<abstract>
Shelves or other fixtures may be used to support items at a facility. Weighing modules including load cells may be used at the fixtures to acquire weight data indicative of changes to the fixture as items are added or removed from the fixture. Accessories such as trays, bins, hangers, and so forth may be attached to the load cells, allowing the fixtures to be easily reconfigured to accommodate items of different sizes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a crossbar comprising: a left bracket attached to a left end of the crossbar and a right bracket attached to a right end of the crossbar; and a plurality of electrical conductors; and a weighing module attached to the crossbar, wherein the weighing module comprises: a first member; one or more module engagement features for the weighing module to mechanically engage at least a portion of the crossbar; a load cell having a first end attached to the first member; electronics to generate load cell data indicative of weight on the load cell; a plurality of electrical contacts to establish a connection between the electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors of the crossbar; a mounting block affixed to a second end of the load cell; and a bin that is affixed to the mounting block using one or more removeable fasteners.
2. A system comprising: a crossbar comprising a plurality of electrical conductors; and a first weighing module attached to the crossbar, wherein the first weighing module comprises: a first member; one or more module engagement features to mechanically engage at least a portion of the crossbar; a first load cell having a first end attached to the first member; first electronics to generate first load cell data indicative of weight on the first load cell; and a first plurality of electrical contacts to establish a connection between the first electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors of the crossbar; and an accessory removably mounted to a second end of the first load cell.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more module engagement features comprise one or more of threaded bolts, threaded screws, or rivets.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the accessory is removably mounted to the second end of the first load cell using one or more of bolts or threaded screws.
5. The system of claim 2, further comprising: an accessory bracket comprising: a first portion affixed to the second end of the first load cell; and a second portion that is arranged perpendicular to the first portion; and the accessory comprising one or more of: a shelf affixed to the second portion of the accessory bracket, or a hanger affixed to the second portion of the accessory bracket.
6. The system of claim 2, further comprising: an accessory bracket affixed to the second end of the first load cell, the accessory bracket comprising a stiffening feature; and a front plate mounted to the accessory bracket proximate to the stiffening feature, wherein the front plate comprises one or more holes to accept a hanger.
7. The system of claim 2, further comprising a second weighing module, wherein the second weighing module comprises: one or more second module engagement features to mechanically engage at least a portion of the crossbar; a second load cell having a third end attached to a third second member; second electronics to generate second load cell data indicative of weight on the second load cell; a second plurality of electrical contacts to establish a connection between the second electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors of the crossbar; and wherein the accessory is also mounted to a fourth end of the second load cell using one or more removeable fasteners, the mounting between the fourth end and the second load cell configured to provide vertical support to the accessory while allowing lateral movement.
8. The system of claim 7, further comprising: a first accessory mounting block affixed to the second end of the first load cell and the accessory; and a second accessory mounting block affixed to the fourth end of the second load cell and the accessory.
9. The system of claim 2, wherein the accessory comprises a single piece of formed material, and further wherein at least a portion of the accessory comprises a rear cap wall, a top cap wall, and a front cap wall that provide a concave region within which at least part of the first load cell is arranged.
10. The system of claim 2, further comprising: a mounting bracket that attaches with a first end of the mounting bracket to the second end of the first load cell; and the accessory comprising one or more of a tray or hanger that attaches to a second end of the mounting bracket.
11. The system of claim 2, wherein an underside of the accessory is located above an upper surface of the first load cell.
12. The system of claim 2, wherein the second end of the first load cell is affixed to a first end of the accessory and further wherein a second end of the accessory is unsupported.
13. The system of claim 2, the accessory comprising: a shelf having a front end and a back end, wherein the back end is affixed to the second end of the first load cell and the front end is distal to the crossbar.
14. The system of claim 2, wherein the accessory comprises: a first portion that attaches to the second end of the first load cell; and a second portion arranged substantially vertically and comprising a flat surface having one or more holes therein that are configured to accept a hanger.
15. A system comprising: a bracket comprising: a bracket body; an upper engagement tab extending from an upper portion of a first end of the bracket body, the upper engagement tab comprising: a first notch positioned proximal to the bracket body; and a second notch positioned distal to the bracket body; and a lower engagement tab extending from a lower portion of the first end of the bracket body, the lower engagement tab comprising: a third notch positioned proximal to the bracket body; and a distal surface; a crossbar attached to the bracket; and a weighing module attached to the crossbar via an engagement feature.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein an interior proximal surface of the second notch and an interior proximal surface of the third notch are collinear.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the second notch and the third notch are aligned with one another.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein an interior proximal surface of the first notch is aligned with the distal surface.
19. The system of claim 15, the crossbar comprising a plurality of electrical conductors; and the weighing module comprising: a load cell; electronics to generate load cell data indicative of weight on the load cell; and a plurality of electrical contacts to establish a connection between the electronics and the plurality of electrical conductors of the crossbar.
20. The system of claim 15, the crossbar comprising: a plurality of engagement slots in a member, each engagement slot having a long axis that is perpendicular to a long axis of the crossbar; and a plurality of linear electrical contacts, each linear electrical contact having a long axis that is parallel to the long axis of the crossbar.
</claims>
</document>
