<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06T11/20,G06T11/60,G09G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABDI TAGHI ABAD, FARDIN
FARIVAR, REZA
TAYLOR, KENNETH
GOODSITT, JEREMY EDWARD
WALTERS, AUSTIN GRANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69167206
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and arrangements to create images
</title>

<abstract>
Logic may create new images by adding more than one synthetic image on a template. Logic may provide a template with a background for a new image. Logic may provide a set of models, each model to comprise a generative adversarial network (GAN), the GANs pretrained independently to generate different synthetic images. Logic may select two or more models from the set of models. Logic may generate, by the two or more models, two or more of the different synthetic images. Logic may combine the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template to create the new image. And logic may train a set of GANs independently, to generate one of two or more different synthetic images on a blank image background, the different synthetic images to comprise a subset of the multiple features of a new image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus comprising: memory; and logic circuitry coupled with the memory to provide a template, the template to comprise a background for a new image; provide a set of models, each model to comprise a generative adversarial network (GAN), the GANs pretrained independently to generate different synthetic images; select two or more models from the set of models; generate, by the two or more models, two or more of the different synthetic images; determine an order to combine the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template, the determined order established randomly or by using one or more parameters associated with the different synthetic images; and combine the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template in the determined order to create the new image, wherein the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template comprises: use of a first model to generate a first synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the template and output the first synthetic image; and use of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, wherein the second model of the set receives the first synthetic image as an input, wherein each of the remaining of the two or more models generates an output of a subsequent synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the input synthetic image, wherein the output of each of the remaining of the two or more models is provided as an input to a successive model of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, and wherein an image output by a last model of the two or more models is the new image.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic circuitry is configured to provide a template comprising a background image or a blank image background.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images to the template to comprise provision of the template as an input image to a first model of the set in accordance with the determined order.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, the logic circuitry to pretrain each model in the set to generate one of the different synthetic images with one or more background images.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images to the template to comprise provision of a blank image background as an input image to each model of the set, each model to generate concurrently, one of the different synthetic images with the blank image background and output the one of the different synthetic images, and further comprising an overlay model to overlay each one of the different synthetic images on the template in accordance with the determined order to generate the new image.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, the overlay model to comprise an application to generate the new image as a drawing structure with the template as a base layer and each one of the different synthetic images as a separate layer in the drawing structure.
7. The apparatus of claim 5, the overlay model to comprise an overlay GAN, the overlay GAN to overlay the template with each one of the different synthetic images in the determined order to create the new image, the overlay GAN to determine the determined order.
8. The apparatus of claim 5, the logic circuitry to pretrain each model in the set to generate one of the different synthetic images with a blank image background.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, the parameters to comprise parameters related to the models selected from the set of models.
10. A non-transitory storage medium containing instructions, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations to: provide a base image, the base image to comprise a background for a new image; provide a library of models, each model to comprise a generative adversarial network (GAN), the GAN pretrained to generate a different synthetic image; select two or more models from the library of models; generate, by the two or more models, two or more of the different synthetic images; and determine an order by an overlay model to combine the two or more of the different synthetic images with a template, the determined order established randomly or by using one or more parameters associated with the different synthetic images; and combine the two or more of the different synthetic images with the base image in the determined order to create the new image, wherein the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template comprises: use of a first model to generate a first synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the template and output the first synthetic image; and use of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, wherein the second model of the set receives the first synthetic image as an input, wherein each of the remaining of the two or more models generates an output of a subsequent synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the input synthetic image, wherein the output of each of the remaining of the two or more models is provided as an input to a successive model of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, and wherein an image output by a last model of the two or more models is the new image.
11. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise operations to provide a base image comprising a background image or a blank image background.
12. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images to the base image to comprise provision of the base image as an input image to a first model of the library in accordance with the determined order.
13. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise operations to pretrain each model in the library to generate one of the two or more of the different synthetic images with a background image as the base image.
14. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images to a base image to comprise provision of a blank image background as an input image to each model of the two or more models, each model to generate concurrently, one of the two or more of the different synthetic images with the blank image background and output the one of two or more different synthetic images, and further comprising an overlay model to overlay each of two or more different synthetic images on the base image in accordance with the determined order to generate the new image.
15. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 14, the overlay model to comprise an application to generate the new image as a drawing structure with the base image as a base layer and each of two or more different synthetic images as a separate layer in the drawing structure.
16. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, the overlay model to comprise an overlay GAN, the overlay GAN to overlay the base image with each of two or more different synthetic images in the determined order to create the new image, the overlay GAN to determine the determined order.
17. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, to pretrain each model in the library to generate one of the different synthetic images with a blank image background.
18. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, the new image to comprise a degraded base image.
19. The non-transitory storage medium of claim 10, the parameters related to the models selected from the set of models.
20. A system comprising: memory; and logic circuitry coupled with the memory to train a set of GANs independently, to generate one of two or more different synthetic images on a blank image background, the different synthetic images to comprise one feature of multiple features of a new image; and train an overlay model to combine the two or more different synthetic images in an order from the set of GANs with a template to create the new image, the template to comprise a background image or a blank image background, the order to be determined randomly or by using one or more parameters associated with the different synthetic images, wherein the combination of each of the two or more of the different synthetic images with the template comprises: use of a first model to generate a first synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the template and output the first synthetic image; and use of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, wherein the second model of the set receives the first synthetic image as an input, wherein each of the remaining of the two or more models generates an output of a subsequent synthetic image of the different synthetic images on the input synthetic image, wherein the output of each of the remaining of the two or more models is provided as an input to a successive model of the remaining of the two or more models in accordance with the determined order, and wherein an image output by a last model of the two or more models is the new image.
</claims>
</document>
