<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04H60/32,H04H60/33,H04N21/24,H04N21/25,H04N21/2668,H04N7/025,H04N7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PLUTO
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOU, CHAN V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68464376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for generating and providing program guides and content
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for identifying, assembling, and transmitting content are described in the illustrative context of electronic program guides and program channels. Data is received over a network from a first user terminal that enables identification of the first user. Program information for a digital program is accessed. A determination is made as to how many interstitials are to be presented during a playback of the digital program. A prediction model is selected and executed to generate predictions of user responses to one or more placements of program interstitials. The user response predictions are used to determine positioning of interstitials with respect to the program. The interstitials are enabled to be displayed on the first user terminal in accordance with the determined positioning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a network interface; at least one processing device; non-transitory memory storing programmatic code that when executed by the at least one processing device, cause the system to: generate, for at least a first user, a first prediction model, the first prediction model generated based at least in part on a determination, with respect to a plurality of different positionings in time of items of ancillary content relative to a beginning of one or more items of streaming content, of: how quickly the first user fast forwarded through, skipped, or navigated away from one or more of the items of ancillary content; access, using the network interface, data from a first user device that enables identification of the first user; use the identification of the first user to access associated user data; determine a first number of items of ancillary content that are to be presented during streaming of a first digital program; select, using at least the accessed user data and a determined prediction model accuracy, a prediction model from a pool of prediction models, the pool of prediction models comprising prediction models, including the first prediction model, configured to generate predictions of user responses to different positionings in time of ancillary content with respect to digital programs; execute the prediction model, selected from the pool of prediction models, to generate predictions of user responses to a plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to a beginning of the first digital program; determine a positioning in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program based at least in part on the generated predictions of user responses to the plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program; based at least in part on the determined positioning in time relative to the beginning of the first digital program of the first number of items of ancillary content, enable at least a portion of the first number of items of ancillary content to be streamed to and displayed by the first user device in accordance with the determined positioning in time; monitor, via information received using the network interface from the first user device, responses of the first user to items ancillary content displayed in accordance with the determined positioning in time by the first user device; based at least in part on the monitored responses of the first user to the displayed items of ancillary content in accordance with the determined positioning in time, enhancing the prediction model, wherein the prediction model comprises one or more hidden layers, a given hidden layer comprising nodes, the nodes associated with node weights, wherein enhancing the prediction model comprises adjusting one or more node weights; and use the enhanced prediction model to enable a second number of items of ancillary content to be streamed to and displayed by the first user device in accordance with a second determined positioning in time.
2. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to select the prediction model, used to generate predictions of user responses to the plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program, from the pool of prediction models using a prediction model evaluator module.
3. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to: iteratively compare monitored responses of the first user to items of ancillary content with corresponding predictions made by the prediction model, and correspondingly update prediction model node weights to generate corresponding updated predictions.
4. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the prediction model utilizes at least a first tag associated with the first digital program in generating predictions of user responses.
5. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the prediction model is configured to access and utilize a plurality of tags associated with the first number of items of ancillary content in generating predictions of user responses.
6. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the prediction model, used to generate predictions of user responses to a plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program, comprises at least one of a deep neural network, a generative adversarial network, a genetic algorithm, a rules engine, a knowledge graph, a generalized Fibonacci sequence, or a clustering algorithm.
7. The method as defined in claim 1, wherein the prediction model, used to generate predictions of user responses to a plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program, comprises a neural network having one or more hidden layers.
8. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the prediction model, used to generate predictions of user responses to a plurality of different positionings in time of the first number of items of ancillary content relative to the beginning of the first digital program, comprises a genetic algorithm.
9. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the pool of prediction models, comprising prediction models configured to generate predictions of user responses to different positionings in time of ancillary content with respect to digital programs, comprises a heterogeneous pool of prediction models.
10. The system as defined in claim 1, wherein the system is configured to select the prediction model at a time selected based at least in part on system loading data.
11. A computer-implemented method comprising: determining for at least a first user, with respect to a plurality of different positionings in time, relative to corresponding reference time points, of interstitials within one or more items of streaming content, whether the first user fast forwarded through, skipped, or navigated away from at least one interstitial; generating or updating a prediction model, the prediction model generated or updated based at least in part on the determination of how quickly the first user fast forwarded through, skipped, or navigated away from the at least one interstitial; receiving, at a computer system comprising one or more processing device over a network from a first user device, data that enables identification of the first user; accessing data associated with the first user using the identification of the first user; accessing by the computer system program information for a first digital program comprising video content; determining how many interstitials are to be presented during a playback of the first digital program; accessing the prediction model; executing the prediction model to generate, using at least a portion of the data associated with the first user, predictions of user responses to different positionings in time of interstitials, the different positionings in time of the interstitials corresponding to different displacements relative to a beginning of the first digital program; based at least in part on the user response predictions, determining positionings in time of interstitials, the positionings in time of the interstitials displaced relative to the beginning of the first digital program; enabling the interstitials to be displayed on the first user device in accordance with the determined positionings in time; monitoring, via information received from the first user device, responses of the first user to interstitials displayed by the first user device in accordance with the determined positionings in time and based at least in part on the monitored responses of the first user to the displayed interstitials, adjusting one or more model node weights associated with respective model layer nodes.
12. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, the method further comprising: monitoring responses of the first user to the displayed interstitials; and based at least in part on the monitored responses of the first user to the displayed interstitials, updating the prediction model.
13. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, the method further comprising: monitoring responses of the first user to the displayed interstitials; and iteratively comparing the monitored responses of the first user to the displayed interstitials to predictions made using the prediction model and correspondingly updating prediction model node weights.
14. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, the method further comprising selecting the prediction model based at least in part on the first user identification.
15. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, wherein the accessed prediction model utilizes at least a portion of the program information in generating predictions of user responses.
16. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, wherein the accessed prediction model comprises at least one of a deep neural network, a generative adversarial network, a genetic algorithm, a rules engine, a knowledge graph, a generalized Fibonacci sequence, or a clustering algorithm.
17. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, the method further comprising selecting the prediction model from a heterogeneous pool of prediction models.
18. The computer-implemented method as defined in claim 11, wherein the accessed prediction model is selected at a time selected based at least in part on system loading data.
19. Non-transitory computer-readable media including computer-executable instructions that, when executed by computer system, cause the computer system to at least: determine for at least a first user, with respect to a plurality of different positionings in time, relative to corresponding reference points, of ancillary content within one or more items of streaming content, whether the first user fast forwarded through, skipped, or navigated away from one or more of the items of ancillary content; generate a prediction model, the prediction model generated based at least in part on the determination of how quickly the first user fast forwarded through, skipped, or navigated away from one or more of the items of ancillary content; access data from a first user device that enables identification of the first user; determine a number of items of ancillary content that are to be presented during streaming of a first digital program; access the prediction model; execute the prediction model to generate predictions of user responses to different positionings in time a plurality of different placements of the number of items of ancillary content, wherein the different positionings in time of the number of items of ancillary content correspond to different displacements relative to a beginning of the first digital program; determine a positioning of the number of items of ancillary content relative to a beginning of the first digital program based at least in part on the generated predictions; using the determined positioning of the number of items of ancillary content in enabling at least a portion of the number of items of ancillary content to be displayed by the first user device in accordance with the determined positioning in time; monitor responses of the first user to items of ancillary content displayed by the first user device in accordance with the determined positioning in time; compare the monitored responses of the first user to the items of ancillary content displayed by the first user device in accordance with the determined positioning in time to the generated predictions of user responses; and based at least in part on the comparison of the monitored responses of the first user to the displayed items of ancillary content to the generated predictions of user responses, modifying weights associated with layer nodes of the prediction model to generate corresponding updated predictions.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by computer system, cause the computer system to select the prediction model from the pool of prediction models using a prediction model evaluator module.
21. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by computer system, cause the computer system to: iteratively compare monitored responses of the first user to items of ancillary content with corresponding predictions made by the prediction model, and correspondingly update prediction model layer node weights to generate corresponding updated predictions.
22. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by computer system, cause the computer system to select the prediction model from a pool of prediction models based at least in part on the first user identification.
23. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the prediction model is configured to utilize at least a first tag associated with the first digital program in generating predictions of user responses.
24. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the prediction model comprises a neural network having one or more hidden layers.
25. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the prediction model comprises a genetic algorithm.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the prediction model is configured to access and utilize a plurality of tags associated with the number of items of ancillary content in generating predictions of user responses.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable media as defined in claim 19, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by computer system, cause the computer system to select the prediction model at a time selected based at least in part on system loading data.
</claims>
</document>
