<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01K11/00,A01K29/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VAN EEDEN, JACOBUS SAREL
</assignee>

<inventors>
VAN EEDEN, JACOBUS SAREL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71104821
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for facilitating the management of data associated with a pet
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a method of facilitating the management of data associated with a pet, in accordance with some embodiments. Accordingly, the method may include a step of receiving, using a communication device, at least one data from at least one IoT device associated with a pet. Further, the method may include a step of generating, using a processing device, a pet profile corresponding to the pet based on the at least one data associated with the pet. Further, the method may include a step of analyzing, using the processing device, the pet profile based on machine learning. Further, the method may include a step of generating, using the processing device, at least one instruction based on the analyzing. Further, the method may include a step of transmitting, using the communication device, the at least one instruction to at least one device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for facilitating the management of data associated with a pet, the method comprising: receiving, using a communication device, at least one data from at least one IoT device associated with a pet; generating, using a processing device, a pet profile corresponding to the pet based on the at least one data associated with the pet; analyzing, using the processing device, the pet profile based on machine learning; generating, using the processing device, at least one instruction based on the analyzing; and transmitting, using the communication device, the at least one instruction to at least one device, wherein the at least one data comprises historical data and current data, wherein the method further comprises retrieving, using a storage device, the historical data from a database, wherein the method further comprises performing, using the processing device, the machine learning based on the historical data, wherein the analyzing of the at least one data comprises analyzing the current data.
2. A method of facilitating the management of data associated with a pet, the method comprising: receiving, using a communication device, at least one data from at least one IoT device associated with a pet; generating, using a processing device, a pet profile information data corresponding to the pet based on the at least one data associated with the pet; transmitting, using the processing device, the pet profile information data to a plurality of user devices associated with a plurality of users; analyzing, using the processing device, the pet profile information data using machine learning; generating, using the processing device, a notification data corresponding to at least one need of the pet based on the analyzing; and transmitting, using the communication device the notification data to at least one device.
3. A system for facilitating the management of data associated with a pet, the system comprising: at least one IoT device configured for generating at least one data associated with a pet; a communication device configured for: receiving the at least one data from the at least one IoT device; and transmitting at least one instruction to at least one device; and a processing device configured for: generating a pet profile corresponding to the pet based on the at least one data associated with the pet; analyzing the pet profile based on machine learning; and generating the at least one instruction based on the analyzing, wherein the communication device is configured for receiving the at least one data, wherein the at least one data comprises a historical data and a current data, wherein the system further comprises a storage device configured for 16/566,166 retrieving the historical data from a database, wherein the processing device is configured for: performing the machine learning based on the historical data; and analyzing the current data.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the communication device is configured for transmitting the at least one instruction to the at least one device, wherein the at least one instruction comprises a purchase instruction, wherein the at least one device comprises an online store server.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one data comprises a plurality of data corresponding to a plurality of pets, wherein the method further comprises performing, using the processing device, the machine learning based on the plurality of data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one IoT device comprises at least one sensor configured to generate at least one sensor data associated with the pet.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one device comprises at least one actuator configured to actuate at least one mechanism associated with the pet, wherein the actuation of the at least one mechanism is based on the at least one instruction.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one instruction comprises an indication of at least one behavior associated with the pet.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one instruction comprises at least one notification associated with the pet, wherein the at least one device comprises at least one user device configured to present the at least one notification.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprises receiving of the at least data from the at least one user device associated with at least one user.
11. The method of claim 1 further comprises presenting the indication of behavior on at least one presentation device associated with the at least one user.
12. The system of claim 3, wherein the communication device is configured for receiving the at least one data, wherein the at least one data comprises a plurality of data corresponding to a plurality of pets; wherein the processing device is configured for performing the machine learning based on the plurality of data.
13. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one IoT device comprises at least one sensor, wherein the at least one sensor is associated with the pet.
14. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one device comprises at least one actuator, wherein the at least one actuator is configured for actuating at least one mechanism associated with the pet.
15. The system of claim 3, wherein the communication device is configured for transmitting at least one instruction, wherein the at least one instruction comprises an indication of at least one behavior associated with the pet.
16. The system of claim 3, wherein the communication device is configured for transmitting the at least one instruction, wherein the at least one instruction comprises at least one notification, wherein the at least one device comprises at least one user device, wherein the at least one user device is configured to present the at least one notification.
</claims>
</document>
