<document>

<filing_date>
2015-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F8/00,G06F8/34,G06F8/38,G06F9/50,G06F9/54,G06Q10/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/00,G06T11/20,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SALESFORCE.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOSWORTH, ADAM
MAMUT, TATYANA
LAYMAN, ANDREW
FLECKENSTEIN, MATTHEW JOHN
HAUSER, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58282729
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Simplified entity lifecycle management
</title>

<abstract>
The technology disclosed offers a declarative framework that implements a machine for multi-step progression of interaction with an entity. The declarative framework is usable over and over for a broad range of applications because it provides a simple rule-based authoring tool that can be used for specifying different elements and components of a complex state machine, including state definitions, state transition triggers, state transition conditions and state transition actions. Once defined, the state machine is automatically generated and implemented based on the declarative input provided by a non-technical user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of simplifying, for a non-programming user, creation of an entity management workflow, the method including: generating a data entry columnar that accepts declarative input, wherein the declarative input specifies a state machine implementing an automated multi-step progression of interaction with an entity, and wherein the data entry columnar is configured to receive: a state in the multi-step progression, time-based transition trigger input, event-based transition trigger input, and action input responsive to a state transition based on at least one of a time-based transition trigger or an event-based transition trigger; receiving a first declarative input value to the data entry columnar that defines the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger, wherein the time-based transition trigger is specified by a timer that causes a state transition upon expiration of a time period and the event-based transition trigger is specified by an event that causes the state transition; receiving a second declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies an action to perform responsive to the state transition caused by the at least one of the time based transition trigger or event based transition trigger; and saving at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a third declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies a resulting state following execution of the action.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the action is a first action, the state transition is a single state transition, and further comprising receiving a third declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies a second action responsive to a global state transition that applies to a plurality of states of the entity.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a third declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies a plurality of states of the entity.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the entity is an electronic device, and the plurality of states of the electronic device include at least one of on, off, standby, power up, power down, a percentage of full power, or extent of network connectivity.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the entity is a user, and the plurality of states of the user include at least one of avid, churned, or lapsed.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value is received from a near real-time (NRT) event management framework that includes a message bus and a stream processing system.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value includes at least one of user click data, user purchasing behavior, device data, or social media streams.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the message bus is at least one of Kafka, Flume, ActiveMQ, or RabbitMQ, and the stream processing system is at least one of Storm or Spark.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the event satisfies a condition, the action is a first action, and further including: measuring the condition during the state transition against at least one value of a database field that the condition references; and performing a second action based on the measuring.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising saving a workflow constructed from the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value.
12. A system including one or more processors coupled to memory, the memory loaded with computer program instructions to simplify for a non-programming user creation of an entity management workflow, the computer program instructions, when executed on the processors, implementing actions comprising: generating a data entry columnar that accepts declarative input, wherein the declarative input specifies a state machine implementing an automated multi-step progression of interaction with an entity, and the data entry columnar is configured to receive: a state in the multi-step progression, time-based transition trigger input, event-based transition trigger input, and action input responsive to a state transition based on at least one of a time-based transition trigger or an event-based transition trigger; receiving a first declarative input value to the data entry columnar that defines the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger, wherein the time-based transition trigger is specified by a timer that causes a state transition upon expiration of a time period and the event-based transition trigger is specified by an event that causes the state transition; receiving a second declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies an action to perform responsive to the state transition caused by the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger; and saving at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium impressed with computer program instructions to simplify for a non-programming user creation of an entity management workflow, the instructions, when executed on a processor, implement actions comprising: generating a data entry columnar that accepts declarative input, wherein the declarative input specifies a state machine implementing an automated multi-step progression of interaction with an entity, and wherein the data entry columnar is configured to receive: a state in the multi-step progression, time-based transition trigger input, event-based transition trigger input, and action input responsive to a state transition based on at least one of a time-based transition trigger or an event-based transition trigger; receiving a first declarative input value to the data entry columnar that defines the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger, wherein the time-based transition trigger is specified by a timer that causes a state transition upon expiration of a time period and the event-based transition trigger is specified by an event that causes the state transition; receiving a second declarative input value to the data entry columnar that specifies an action to perform responsive to the state transition caused by the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger; and saving at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value is received from a near real-time (NRT) event management framework that includes a message bus and a stream processing system.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value includes at least one of user click data, user purchasing behavior, device data, or social media streams.
16. A method of simplified creation of an entity management workflow, the method including: receiving a data entry columnar that accepts declarative input, wherein the declarative input specifies a state machine implementing an automated multi-step progression of interaction with an entity, and the data entry columnar is configured to receive: a state in the multi-step progression, time-based transition trigger input, event-based transition trigger input, and action input responsive to a first state transition based on at least one of a time-based transition trigger or an event-based transition trigger; transmitting a declarative input value to the data entry columnar that defines: a plurality of states of the entity; the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger, wherein the time-based transition trigger is specified by a timer that causes the first state transition upon expiration of a time period and the event-based transition trigger is specified by an event value satisfying a condition; resulting state following execution of a first action responsive to the first state transition caused by the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger; and second action responsive to a second state transition that applies to the plurality of states of the entity, wherein the condition controls a third action to implement responsive to the first state transition or the second state transition.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the entity is an electronic device, and the plurality of states of the electronic device include at least one of on, off, standby, power up, power down, a percentage of full power, or extent of network connectivity.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the entity is a user, and the plurality of states of the user include at least one of avid, churned, or lapsed.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the declarative input value is received from a near real-time (NRT) event management framework that includes a message bus and a stream processing system.
20. A method of simplifying, for a non-programming user, creation of an entity management workflow, the method including: generating a data entry articulation that accepts declarative input, wherein declarative input specifies a state machine implementing an automated multi-step progression of interaction with an entity, and the data entry articulation is configured to receive: a state in the multi-step progression, time-based transition trigger input, event-based transition trigger input, and action input responsive to a state transition based on at least one of a time-based transition trigger or an event-based transition trigger; receiving a first declarative input value to the data entry articulation that defines the at least one of a time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger, wherein the time-based transition trigger is specified by a timer that causes a state transition upon expiration of a time period and the event-based transition trigger is specified by an event that causes the state transition; receiving a second declarative input value to the data entry articulation that an action to perform responsive to the state transition caused by the at least one of the time-based transition trigger or the event-based transition trigger; and saving at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising receiving a third declarative input value to the data entry articulation that specifies a resulting state following execution of the action.
22. The method of claim 20, wherein the action is a first action, the state transition is a single state transition, and further comprising receiving a third declarative input value to the data entry articulation that specifies a second action responsive to a global state transition that applies to a plurality of states of the entity.
23. The method of claim 20, further comprising receiving third declarative input value to the data entry articulation that specifies a plurality of states of the entity.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the entity is a user, and the plurality of states of the user include at least one of avid, churned, or lapsed.
25. The method of claim 20, wherein at least one of the first declarative input value or the second declarative input value is received from a near real-time (NRT) event management framework that includes a message bus and a stream processing system.
</claims>
</document>
