<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04N21/234,H04N21/2387,H04N21/24,H04N21/25,H04N21/258,H04N21/442,H04N21/658
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRABORTY, ARNAB D.
SANYAL, KAUSHIK
CHITTICK, LAURA
SACHDEVA, RUCHIKA
SHANMUGASUNDARAM, MUTHUMARI
DESHPANDE, KETAKI
MUNJAL, JUHI
ADIMULAM, DEEPTHI
BALDINO, III, MICHAEL
SAGINAW, JONATHAN
STRIBLEY, JONATHAN
TUMA, YOUSSEF D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59960794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Video analytics device
</title>

<abstract>
A device may communicate with a group of devices to obtain data regarding a set of events occurring for the group of devices. The device may process the data regarding the set of events to remove a subset of data entries, from the data, that is associated with an anomalous event. A first layer of analysis may relate to the group of devices, a second layer of analysis relating to a set of sessions of operating a user interface via the group of devices, and a third layer of analysis relating to information provided via the user interface. The device may perform the multiple layers of analysis via a machine learning technique to identify an alteration relating to the information provided via the user interface. The device may alter the information provided via the user interface based on performing the multiple layers of analysis.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions, the instructions comprising: one or more instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: obtain content data from a group of user devices, the content data including data entries regarding playback of content, and the content data relating to a content platform associated with providing playback of the content via the group of user devices; process the data entries by: removing a group of the data entries from the content data, the group of the data entries corresponding to at least one of: an anomalous user satisfying a threshold quantity of playback time per day, or an anomalous event associated with a threshold deviation from other events, and adding one or more additional entries to complete an incomplete group of the data entries, the one or more additional entries including at least one of: information about the content, or information identifying one or more users of the group of user devices; analyze, based on removing the group of the data entries from the content data and adding the one or more additional entries, the data entries to determine data metrics associated with user engagement with the content; set, based on determining the data metrics and for a particular user associated with a particular user device of the group of user devices, a frequency of playback for advertising content during a content accessing session to a particular frequency; and cause the advertising content to be provided at the particular frequency via the content platform of the particular user device.
2. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: cause an alteration to a network configuration based on the data metrics; and where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to cause the advertising content to be provided via the content platform, cause the one or more processors to: transmit the advertising content to the particular user device after causing the alteration to the network configuration.
3. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: generate a user interface including information associated with the data metrics; and cause the user interface to be provided for display via a client device.
4. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: assign the particular user to a particular cluster associated with the data metrics based on one or more content playback sessions for the particular user corresponding to a set of content playback sessions of the particular cluster; and select a particular item of content for playback based on assigning the particular user to the particular cluster.
5. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: determine a popularity of a particular item of content based on the data metrics; and select the particular item of content for playback based on the popularity of the particular item of content.
6. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: generate an analytical data model based on analyzing the data entries; and identify a cluster of users based on performing a set of layered analysis using the analytical data model.
7. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 1, where the one or more instructions, that cause the one or more processors to obtain the content data from the group of user devices, cause the one or more processors to: obtain the content data from the group of user devices in real-time.
8. A device, comprising: a memory; and one or more processors to: obtain content data from a group of user devices, the content data including data entries regarding playback of content, and the content data relating to a content platform associated with providing playback of the content via the group of user devices; process the data entries by: removing a group of the data entries from the content data, the group of the data entries corresponding to at least one of: an anomalous user satisfying a threshold quantity of playback time per day, or an anomalous event associated with a threshold deviation from other events, and adding one or more additional entries to complete an incomplete group of data entries, the one or more additional entries including at least one of: information about the content, or information identifying one or more users of the group of user devices; analyze, based on removing the group of the data entries from the content data and adding the one or more additional entries, the data entries to determine data metrics associated with user engagement with the content; set, based on determining the data metrics and for a particular user associated with a particular user device of the group of user devices, a frequency of playback for advertising content during a content accessing session to a particular frequency; and cause the advertising content to be provided at the particular frequency via the content platform of the particular user device.
9. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors are further to: cause an alteration to a network configuration based on the data metrics; and where the one or more processors, when causing the advertising content to be provided via the content platform, cause the one or more processors to: transmit the advertising content to the particular user device after causing the alteration to the network configuration.
10. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors are further to: generate a user interface including information associated with the data metrics; and cause the user interface to be provided for display via a client device.
11. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors are further to: assign the particular user to a particular cluster associated with the data metrics based on one or more content playback sessions for the particular user corresponding to a set of content playback sessions of the particular cluster; and select a particular item of content for playback based on assigning the particular user to the particular cluster.
12. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors are further to: determine a popularity of a particular item of content based on the data metrics; and select the particular item of content for playback based on the popularity of the particular item of content.
13. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors are further to: generate an analytical data model based on analyzing the data entries; and identify a cluster of users based on performing a set of layered analysis using the analytical data model.
14. The device of claim 8, where the one or more processors, when obtaining the content data from the group of user devices, are to: obtain the content data from the group of user devices in real-time.
15. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a device, content data from a group of user devices, the content data including data entries regarding playback of content, and the content data relating to a content platform associated with providing playback of the content via the group of user devices; processing, by the device, the data entries by: removing a group of the data entries from the content data, the group of the data entries corresponding to at least one of: an anomalous user satisfying a threshold quantity of playback time per day, or an anomalous event associated with a threshold deviation from other events, and adding one or more additional entries to complete an incomplete group of the data entries, the one or more additional entries including at least one of: information about the content, or information identifying one or more users of the group of user devices; analyzing, by the device, based on removing the group of the data entries, and based on adding the one or more additional entries, the data entries to determine data metrics associated with user engagement with the content; setting, by the device, based on determining the data metrics, and for a particular user associated with a particular user device of the group of user devices, a frequency of playback for advertising content during a content accessing session to a particular frequency; and causing, by the device, the advertising content to be provided at the particular frequency via the content platform of the particular user device.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: causing an alteration to a network configuration based on the data metrics; and where causing the advertising content to be provided via the content platform comprises: transmitting the advertising content to the particular user device after causing the alteration to the network configuration.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating a user interface including information associated with the data metrics; and causing the user interface to be provided for display via a client device.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: assigning the particular user to a particular cluster associated with the data metrics based on one or more content playback sessions for the particular user corresponding to a set of content playback sessions of the particular cluster; and selecting a particular item of content for playback based on assigning the particular user to the particular cluster.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating an analytical data model based on analyzing the data entries; and identifying a cluster of users based on performing a set of layered analysis using the analytical data model.
20. The method of claim 15, where obtaining the content data from the group of user devices comprises: obtaining the content data from the group of user devices in real-time.
</claims>
</document>
