<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/35,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CA
</assignee>

<inventors>
RANJAN, GYAN
KOUL, NIKHITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70775040
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for creating automatic computer-generated classifications
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed computer-implemented method for creating automatic computer-generated classifications may include (i) mining webpages of entities with a known classification, (ii) using information mined from the webpages to create a classification structure that assigns class labels to entities based on entity webpage content, (iii) applying, to the classification structure, one or more webpages of a new entity with an unknown classification, (iv) receiving, from the classification structure, a class label for the new entity, and (v) performing a security action based on the new entity's class label. Various other methods, systems, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for creating automatic computer-generated classifications, at least a portion of the method being performed by a computing device comprising at least one processor, the method comprising: mining webpages of entities with a known industry classification by: searching a database of classified entities for entities that have a particular classification; identifying a corpus of webpages describing the entities with the particular classification; and extracting text from the identified webpages relating to the particular classification; using information mined from the webpages to create a classification structure that assigns industry classifications to entities based on entity webpage content; applying, to the classification structure, one or more webpages of a new entity with an unknown classification; receiving, from the classification structure, an industry classification for the new entity wherein the classification structure generates the industry classification by: identifying hidden semantic structures within the text extracted from the webpages of the entities with the particular classification; identifying, based on the identified hidden semantic structures, a cluster of similar words corresponding to an abstract topic; and determining that text included within the webpages of the new entity correspond to the cluster of similar words; deducing a vulnerability of the new entity based on vulnerability information available for other entities known to have the industry classification; and implementing a security measure that responds to the vulnerability associated with the industry classification.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: attributing a characteristic to the new entity based on the new entity's industry classification; and deducing the vulnerability based at least in part on the characteristic.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein implementing the security measure comprises performing at least one action to protect a device associated with the new entity against data loss.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein determining the vulnerability the new entity comprises determining the vulnerability of the new entity based further on risk information for the entities with known classifications.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein using the information mined from the webpages to create the classification structure comprises using textual semantics included within the webpages to create the classification structure.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein using the textual semantics included within the webpages comprises identifying semantic patterns within the webpages and using the semantic patterns to create the classification structure.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, wherein the semantic patterns comprise at least one of: a word pair; and a relative placement of words.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the classification structure assigns the new entity with the multiple class labels using fuzzy classification; and receiving the new entity's industry classification from the classification structure comprising receiving multiple class labels for the new entity from the classification structure.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein mining the webpages of the entities with a known industry classification comprises: receiving input from a crowd-sourced list of entities that includes entity classifications; and identifying the industry classifications for the entities based on the input.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying an industry classification previously assigned to the new entity by at least one of the new entity and a third party; determining that the industry classification previously assigned to the new entity differs from the industry classification received from the classification structure; and determining, based on the industry classification previously assigned to the new entity differing from the industry classification received from the classification structure, that the new entity changed industry sectors after receiving the previously assigned industry classification, wherein determining that the new entity changed industry sectors comprises automatically determining that the new entity changed industry sectors without obtaining information indicating that the new entity changed sectors from the new entity.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein mining the webpages of the entities with a known industry classification comprises identifying the webpages using at least one of: an Internet search engine; and a web crawler.
12. A system for creating automatic computer-generated classifications, the system comprising: a mining module, stored in memory, that mines webpages of entities with a known industry classification by: searching a database of classified entities for entities that have a particular classification; identifying a corpus of webpages describing the entities with the particular classification; and extracting text from the identified webpages relating to the particular classification; a creation module, stored in memory, that uses information mined from the webpages to create a classification structure that assigns industry classifications to entities based on entity webpage content; an application module, stored in memory, that applies, to the classification structure, one or more webpages of a new entity with an unknown classification; a receiving module, stored in memory, that receives, from the classification structure, an industry classification for the new entity, wherein the classification structure generates the industry classification by: identifying hidden semantic structures within the text extracted from the webpages of the entities with the particular classification; identifying, based on the identified hidden semantic structures, a cluster of similar words corresponding to an abstract topic; and determining that text included within the webpages of the new entity correspond to the cluster of similar words; a security module, stored in memory, that deduces a vulnerability of the new entity based on vulnerability information available for other entities known to have the industry classification and implements a security measure that responds to the vulnerability associated with the industry classification; and at least one physical processor configured to execute the mining module, the creation module, the application module, the receiving module, and the security module.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein: the receiving module attributes a characteristic to the new entity based on the new entity's industry classification; and the security module deduces the vulnerability based at least in part on the characteristic.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the security module implements the security measure by performing at least one action to protect a device associated with the new entity against data loss.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the security module determines the vulnerability of the new entity based further on risk information for the entities with known classifications.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the webpages of the entities with a known classification and the webpages of the new entity comprise at least one of: webpages associated with an entity product; webpages associated with an entity service; and social media pages.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the classification structure relies on topic modeling to assign industry classifications to entities.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising one or more computer-readable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, cause the computing device to: mine webpages of entities with a known industry classification by: searching a database of classified entities for entities that have a particular classification; identifying a corpus of webpages describing the entities with the particular classification; and extracting text from the identified webpages relating to the particular classification; use information mined from the webpages to create a classification structure that assigns class industry classifications to entities based on entity webpage content; apply, to the classification structure, one or more webpages of a new entity with an unknown classification; receive, from the classification structure, an industry classification for the new entity, wherein the classification structure generates the industry classification by: identifying hidden semantic structures within the text extracted from the webpages of the entities with the particular classification; identifying, based on the identified hidden semantic structures, a cluster of similar words corresponding to an abstract topic; and determining that text included within the webpages of the new entity correspond to the cluster of similar words; deduce a vulnerability of the new entity based on the new entity's industry classification based on vulnerability information available for other entities known to have the industry classification; and implement a security measure that responds to the vulnerability associated with the industry classification.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the vulnerability comprises a vulnerability to a particular type of security breach.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the vulnerability comprises a vulnerability to a particular type of security breach.
</claims>
</document>
