<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/954,G06F3/048,G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06N20/00,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELSEVIER
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, HANS-FREDERICK
FURSTOSS, ETHAN PAUL
BARBER, DANIEL DEWITT
COHEN, SUSANNE MARCY
TARR, GBOINYEE KEVIN
FAZIO, CHRISTIAN MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69163045
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for providing concomitant augmentation via learning interstitials for books using a publishing platform
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and electronic device for providing concomitant augmentation via learning interstitials for publications includes activating a scan mode, where the scan mode causes a camera to capture image data; determining the presence of a publication captured in the image data; and analyzing the image data to determine the presence of an augmented reality (AR) identifier. In response to identifying the presence of the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data, the image data and an AR link that corresponds to the AR identifier is displayed as an AR overlay to the image data of the publication. In response to failing to identify the AR identifier within the publication, a user is prompted to input a page number of the publication; and the AR link that corresponds to the page number of the publication input by the user is displayed in a list view.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of providing concomitant augmentation via learning interstitials for publications, the method comprising: activating a scan mode, wherein the scan mode causes a camera of an electronic device to capture image data; determining the presence of a publication captured in the image data; analyzing the image data of the publication to determine the presence of an augmented reality (AR) identifier; in response to identifying the presence of the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data, displaying, on a display of the electronic device, the image data of the publication and an AR link that corresponds to the AR identifier, wherein the AR link is displayed as an AR overlay to the image data of the publication; and in response to failing to identify the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data: prompting a user to input a page number of the publication captured in the image data; and displaying the AR link that corresponds to the page number of the publication input by the user, wherein the AR link is displayed in a list view on the display of the electronic device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the image data of the publication includes utilizing a machine learning model configured to detected one or more AR identifiers within the image data of the publication.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: transmitting the page number input by the user and the image data of the publication to a server configured to train the machine learning model; and receiving an updated machine learning model from the server, wherein the server incorporates the image data of the publication captured when the machine learning model failed to identify the presence of the AR identifier within the image data of the publication and in response updates the machine learning model.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a feedback from the user regarding the AR link; and updating a content or a functionality of the AR link when the feedback indicates an update is needed.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the feedback includes a score defining a level of likeability of the content provided by the AR link, and when the score is below a threshold value the feedback indicates an update is needed.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein when the feedback includes an indication that the AR link is not functioning, the feedback indicates an update is needed.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising adding an identified AR Link to an AR link library that corresponds to the publication.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a gutter within the publication and wherein the AR link is displayed in the gutter of the publication.
9. A system for providing concomitant augmentation via learning interstitials for publications comprising: an electronic device comprising a display and a camera; a processor communicatively coupled to the display and the camera; and a non-transitory, processor-readable memory coupled to the processor, the non-transitory, processor-readable memory comprising a machine readable instruction set stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to: activate a scan mode, wherein the scan mode causes the camera of the electronic device to capture image data; determine the presence of a publication captured in the image data; analyze the image data of the publication to determine the presence of an augmented reality (AR) identifier; in response to identifying the presence of the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data, display, on the display of the electronic device, the image data of the publication and an AR link that corresponds to the AR identifier, wherein the AR link is displayed as an AR overlay to the image data of the publication; and in response to failing to identify the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data: prompt a user to input a page number of the publication captured in the image data; and display the AR link that corresponds to the page number of the publication input by the user, wherein the AR link is displayed in a list view on the display of the electronic device.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein analyzing the image data of the publication includes utilizing a machine learning model configured to detected one or more AR identifiers within the image data of the publication.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a server communicatively coupled to the electronic device, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: transmit the page number input by the user and the image data of the publication to the server configured to train the machine learning model; wherein the server is configured to: incorporate the image data of the publication, when the machine learning model failed to identify the presence of the AR identifier within the image data of the publication, with training material for the machine learning model; and update the machine learning model for detecting the one or more AR identifiers based on the image data of the publication.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: receive a feedback from the user regarding the AR link; and update a content or a functionality of the AR link when the feedback indicates an update is needed.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the feedback includes a score defining a level of likeability of the content provided by the AR link, and when the score is below a threshold value the feedback indicates an update is needed.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein when the feedback includes an indication that the AR link is not functioning, the feedback indicates an update is needed.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: add an identified AR Link to an AR link library that corresponds to the publication.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: detect a gutter within the publication and wherein the AR link is displayed in the gutter of the publication.
17. An electronic device configured with an application for providing concomitant augmentation via learning interstitials for publications comprising: a display; a camera; a processor communicatively coupled to the display and the camera; and a non-transitory, processor-readable memory coupled to the processor, the non-transitory, processor-readable memory comprising a machine readable instruction set stored thereon that, when executed by the processor, causes the processor to: activate a scan mode, wherein the scan mode causes the camera of the electronic device to capture image data; determine the presence of a publication captured in the image data; analyze the image data of the publication to determine the presence of an augmented reality (AR) identifier; in response to identifying the presence of the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data, display, on the display of the electronic device, the image data of the publication and an AR link that corresponds to the AR identifier, wherein the AR link is displayed as an AR overlay to the image data of the publication; and in response to failing to identify the AR identifier within the publication captured in the image data: prompt a user to input a page number of the publication captured in the image data; and display the AR link that corresponds to the page number of the publication input by the user, wherein the AR link is displayed in a list view on the display of the electronic device.
18. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein analyzing the image data of the publication includes utilizing a machine learning model configured to detected one or more AR identifiers within the image data of the publication.
19. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: transmit the page number input by the user and the image data of the publication to a server configured to train the machine learning model; and receive an updated machine learning model for detecting the one or more AR identifiers based on the image data of the publication.
20. The electronic device of claim 17, wherein the machine readable instruction set, when executed, further causes the processor to: receive a feedback from the user regarding the AR link; transmit the feedback to a computing device for updating the AR link; and receive, from the computing device, updated content or functionality of the AR link in response to the transmitted feedback.
</claims>
</document>
