<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/55,G06F21/62,G06Q10/10,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04W4/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUANG, SHEN
KUAN, CHI-YI
ZHANG YONGZHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64664396
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data protection using alerts to delay transmission
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for delaying the transmission of a message to one or more recipients using an alert in order to provide data protection and security with respect to data included in the message are disclosed herein. In some embodiments, a computer-implemented method comprises: receiving a request to transmit a message from a computing device of a user to a recipient, the request comprising content of the message; detecting an issue with the request using at least one classifier to classify the request as having the issue; generating an alert based on the detecting of the issue; and prior to transmitting the message to a destination associated with the recipient, causing the generated alert to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the alert indicating the issue with the message.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer system having a memory and at least one processor, a request to transmit a message from a computing device of a user via a network to a recipient, the request comprising content of the message; detecting, by the computer system, an issue with the request using at least one classifier to classify the request as having the issue, the detecting of the issue comprising accessing profile data of a profile of the recipient stored in a database of a social networking service, and the detecting of the issue is based on a determination that the message is inappropriate for the recipient based on a combination of the accessed profile data of the profile of the recipient and the content of the message, the profile data of the profile of the recipient on which the detecting of the issue is based comprising at least one of a company to which the recipient belongs, a department within the company to which the recipient belongs, educational background information of the recipient, and a work industry of the recipient; generating, by the computer system, an alert based on the detecting of the issue; and prior to transmitting the message to a destination associated with the recipient via the network, causing, by the computer system, the generated alert to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the alert indicating the issue with the message.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the detecting of the issue comprises accessing profile data of a profile of the user stored in the database of the social networking service, and the detecting of the issue is based on a combination of the accessed profile data of the profile of the recipient and the accessed profile data of the profile of the user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the content of the message comprises text in a body field of the message.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the content of the message comprises a file that is attached to the message.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generated alert comprises: a prompting of the user to respond to the displayed alert with feedback corresponding to the detected issue; and at least one user interface element configured to enable the user to submit feedback corresponding to the detected issue in response to the displayed alert.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: determining that the user has not submitted feedback corresponding to the detected issue within a predetermined time period; and discarding the message without transmitting the message to the destination of the recipient based on the determining that the user has not submitted feedback corresponding to the detected issue within the predetermined time period.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving feedback submitted by the user via the at least one user interface element in response to the displayed alert, the feedback comprising a confirmation that the message is to be transmitted to the recipient; and based on the feedback, using the request as training data in performing a machine learning process to train the at least one classifier.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one classifier comprises: a first classifier configured to determine whether the content of the message corresponds to a domain or industry to which the recipient corresponds; a second classifier configured to determine whether an organization to which the recipient belongs is a competitor of an organization to which the user belongs; and a third classifier configured to determine whether the recipient works within a specific department to which the content of the message corresponds.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the message comprises an instant message, a chat message, a text message, or an e-mail message.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computing device comprises a mobile device.
11. A system comprising: at least one hardware processor; and a non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by the at least one hardware processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request to transmit a message from a computing device of a user via a network to a recipient, the request comprising content of the message; detecting an issue with the request using at least one classifier to classify the request as having the issue, the detecting of the issue comprising accessing profile data of a profile of the recipient stored in a database of a social networking service, and the detecting of the issue is based on a determination that the message is inappropriate for the recipient based on a combination of the accessed profile data of the profile of the recipient and the content of the message, the profile data of the profile of the recipient on which the detecting of the issue is based comprising at least one of a company to which the recipient belongs, a department within the company to which the recipient belongs, educational background information of the recipient, and a work industry of the recipient; generating an alert based on the detecting of the issue; and prior to transmitting the message to a destination associated with the recipient via the network, causing the generated alert to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the alert indicating the issue with the message.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the detecting of the issue comprises accessing profile data of a profile of the user stored in the database of the social networking service, and the detecting of the issue is based on a combination of the accessed profile data of the profile of the recipient and the accessed profile data of the profile of the user.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the content of the message comprises at least one of text in a body field of the message and a file that is attached to the message.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the generated alert comprises: a prompting of the user to respond to the displayed alert with feedback corresponding to the detected issue; and at least one user interface element configured to enable the user to submit feedback corresponding to the detected issue in response to the displayed alert.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: determining that the user has not submitted feedback corresponding to the detected issue within a predetermined time period; and discarding the message without transmitting the message to the destination of the recipient based on the determining that the user has not submitted feedback corresponding to the detected issue within the predetermined time period.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving feedback submitted by the user via the at least one user interface element in response to the displayed alert, the feedback comprising a confirmation that the message is to be transmitted to the recipient; and based on the feedback, using the request as training data in performing a machine learning process to train the at least one classifier.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the computing device comprises a mobile device.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable medium embodying a set of instructions that, when executed by at least one hardware processor, cause the processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving a request to transmit a message from a computing device of a user via a network to a recipient, the request comprising content of the message; detecting an issue with the request using at least one classifier to classify the request as having the issue, the detecting of the issue comprising accessing profile data of a profile of the recipient stored in a database of a social networking service, and the detecting of the issue is based on a determination that the message is inappropriate for the recipient based on a combination of the accessed profile data of the profile of the recipient and the content of the message, the profile data of the profile of the recipient on which the detecting of the issue is based comprising at least one of a company to which the recipient belongs, a department within the company to which the recipient belongs, educational background information of the recipient, and a work industry of the recipient; generating an alert based on the detecting of the issue; and prior to transmitting the message to a destination associated with the recipient via the network, causing the generated alert to be displayed on the computing device of the user, the alert indicating the issue with the message.
</claims>
</document>
