<document>

<filing_date>
2016-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B21/06,E21B21/08,E21B3/02,E21B44/00,E21B44/04,E21B47/024,E21B47/06,E21B47/18,E21B49/00,E21B7/04,G05B19/042
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
HALLIBURTON ENERGY SERVICES GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
DYKSTRA, JASON D.
GU, QIUYING
XUE, YUZHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59626096
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Game theoretic control architecture for drilling system automation
</title>

<abstract>
A drilling apparatus including plurality of subsystems, each subsystem includes a subsystem controller, one or more sensors, and one or more actuators. Each subsystem controller is configured to determine a local subsystem state from measurements received from the one or more sensors and further configured to receive global state estimates and updated control strategies. Each subsystem controller is configured to send command signals to one or more actuators based at least in part on the local subsystem state, global state estimates, and updated control strategy. A method and system for coordinating the control of a plurality of drilling subsystems during drilling operations is provided. A method of drilling subsystem controller decision-making based on a co-player inference playing strategy is further provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A drilling apparatus comprising: a plurality of subsystems, each subsystem comprising: a subsystem controller; one or more sensors; one or more actuators, each subsystem controller configured to determine a local subsystem state from measurements received from the one or more sensors and further configured to receive global state estimates based at least in part on the local subsystem states of each of the plurality of subsystems; a communication coordinator communicatively coupled with each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, the communication coordinator configured to receive local subsystem states from each of the plurality of subsystem controllers and transmit global state estimates to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, wherein each subsystem controller is configured to receive updated control strategies based at least in part on the global state estimates, each subsystem controller further configured to send command signals to one or more actuators based on the local subsystem state, global state estimates, and updated control strategy, wherein the communication coordinator is further configured to receive data comprising command signals sent by each of the subsystem controllers to one or more subsystem actuators, wherein the communication coordinator is further configured to transmit data comprising command signals, sent by each of the subsystem controllers to one or more actuators, to each of the subsystem controllers; and a global state estimator communicatively coupled with the communication coordinator, the global state estimator configured to determine global state estimates based at least in part on the local subsystem states of each of the plurality of subsystems and the command signals sent by each of the subsystem controllers to one or more actuators, the global state estimator further configured to transmit the global state estimates to the communication coordinator, the communication coordinator configured to transmit the global state estimates to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers.
2. The drilling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein each subsystem controller is further configured to receive data comprising command signals sent by each of the subsystem controllers to one or more actuators, and wherein each subsystem controller is further configured to send command signals to one or more actuators based on the local subsystem state, global state estimates, updated control strategy, and command signals sent by each of the subsystem controllers.
3. The drilling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the data transmitted by the communication coordinator comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a sensing communication matrix and an interaction matrix.
4. The drilling apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a global strategy controller communicatively coupled with the global state estimator and each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, the global strategy controller configured to receive and evaluate the global state estimates to determine updated control strategies required to achieve a performance objective of the apparatus, the global strategy controller further configured to transmit said updated control strategies to the plurality of subsystem controllers.
5. The drilling apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the updated control strategies comprises one selected from the group consisting of an updated objective function, an updated local control law, and an updated controller setting.
6. The drilling apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of subsystems comprises a drilling fluid subsystem, a bottom hole assembly (BHA) subsystem, and a rig subsystem.
7. A method comprising: providing a drilling system comprising a plurality of subsystems, each subsystem comprising a subsystem controller communicatively coupled with one or more sensors and one or more actuators; determining, at each subsystem controller, a local subsystem state from measurements received from the one or more sensors; obtaining a global state estimate based at least in part on the local subsystem states and command signals sent by each subsystem controller to one or more actuators; evaluating the global state estimates to determine updated control strategies required to achieve the performance objective of the system; communicating the updated control strategies to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers; actuating, at each of the plurality of subsystems, one or more actuators to adjust a drilling subsystem control variable in response to the updated control strategies.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein the updated control strategy comprises an updated objective function.
9. The method according to claim 7, wherein the communicating comprises mud pulse telemetry.
10. The method according to claim 7, wherein the plurality of subsystems comprises a BHA subsystem, a rig subsystem, and a drilling fluid subsystem.
11. A drilling system comprising: a plurality of drilling subsystems, each drilling subsystem comprising: a subsystem controller; one or more sensors; and one or more actuators; wherein each subsystem controller is configured to determine a local subsystem state from measurements received from the one or more sensors; a communication coordinator communicatively coupled with each of the plurality of subsystem controllers and configured to receive local subsystem states from each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, the communication coordinator further configured to receive, from each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, command signals sent by each subsystem controller to one or more actuators; a global state estimator communicatively coupled with the communication coordinator and configured to determine global state estimates based at least in part on the local subsystem states and the command signals received from the communication coordinator, the global state estimator further configured to transmit global estimates to a communication controller; and a global strategy controller communicatively coupled with the global state estimator and each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, the global strategy controller configured to receive and evaluate the global state estimates to determine updated control strategies required to achieve the performance objective of the system, the global strategy controller further configured to transmit said updated control strategies to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers; wherein each subsystem controller sends command signals to the one or more actuators based at least in part on the local subsystem state, global state estimates received from the communication coordinator, and the updated control strategy.
12. The drilling system according to claim 11, wherein the communication coordinator is further configured to transmit data comprising command signals sent by each subsystem controller to each subsystem controller and global state estimates to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers, and wherein each subsystem controller sends command signals to the one or more actuators based at least in part on the local subsystem state, the updated control strategy, and data received from the communication coordinator.
13. The drilling system according to claim 12, wherein the data transmitted by the communication coordinator to each of the plurality of subsystem controllers comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of a sensing communication matrix and a interaction matrix.
14. The drilling system according to claim 11, wherein the updated control strategies comprises one selected from the group consisting of an updated objective function, an updated local control law, and an updated controller setting.
15. The drilling system according to claim 11, wherein the plurality of drilling subsystems comprises a drilling fluid subsystem, a bottom hole assembly (BHA) subsystem, and a rig subsystem.
16. A method comprising: providing a drilling system comprising a plurality of subsystems, each subsystem comprising a subsystem controller communicatively coupled with one or more sensors and one or more actuators; determining, at each subsystem controller, a local subsystem state from measurements received from the one or more sensors; actuating, at each of the plurality of subsystems, one or more actuators to adjust a drilling subsystem control variable in response to a control action taken by a subsystem controller, obtaining, at an individual subsystem controller, global state estimates based at least in part on the local subsystem states and control actions taken by each of the subsystem controllers; evaluating, at the individual subsystem controller, the global state estimates to determine expected control actions of other subsystems; producing, at the individual subsystem controller, an uncorrected command signal based at least in part on the expected control actions of other subsystems; receiving, at the individual subsystem controller, the actual control actions of other subsystems; determining, at the individual subsystem controller, an estimated error based at least in part on the expected control actions of other subsystems and the actual control actions of other subsystems; generating, at the individual subsystem controller, a compensation signal based at least in part on the estimated error; adding the compensation signal to the uncorrected command signal to produce a corrected command signal; and actuating one or more actuators to adjust a drilling subsystem control variable in response to the corrected command signal.
</claims>
</document>
