<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03K19/17736,H03K19/1776
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACHRONIX SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NIJSSEN, RAYMOND
PUGH, DANIEL
Fitton, Michael Philip
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72615188
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fused memory and arithmetic circuit
</title>

<abstract>
A tile of an FPGA fuses memory and arithmetic circuits. Connections directly between multiple instances of the tile are also available, allowing multiple tiles to be treated as larger memories or arithmetic circuits. By using these connections, referred to as cascade inputs and outputs, the input and output bandwidth of the arithmetic circuit is further increased. The arithmetic unit accesses inputs from a combination of: the switch fabric, the memory circuit, a second memory circuit of the tile, and a cascade input. In some example embodiments, the routing of the connections on the tile is based on post-fabrication configuration. In one configuration, all connections are used by the memory circuit, allowing for higher bandwidth in writing or reading the memory. In another configuration, all connections are used by the arithmetic circuit.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A circuit comprising: a memory circuit that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); provides a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; and in response to a configuration signal, is configured to receive a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; and an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receives the second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
2. A circuit comprising: a memory circuit that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); and provides a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; a second memory circuit that: stores data received from a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; and provides a second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; and an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receives the second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA; receives the second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
3. The circuit of claim 2, wherein: in response to a first configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform operations on the first set of outputs and the second set of inputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform operations on the second set of outputs and the second set of inputs.
4. The circuit of claim 2, wherein: in response to a first configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform multiplication operations on the second set of outputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform addition operations on the second set of outputs.
5. A circuit comprising: a memory circuit that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); and provides a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; and an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receives a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; receives a third set of inputs directly from a cascade output of a second tile of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
6. The circuit of claim 5, wherein the arithmetic circuit further provides a third set of outputs to a third tile of the FPGA via a second cascade output.
7. A circuit comprising: a block random access memory (BRAM) that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); provides a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; and provides a second set of outputs to a second connection fabric of the FPGA; and an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receives a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
8. A method comprising: receiving, by a memory circuit, a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); providing, by the memory circuit, a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; receiving, by an arithmetic circuit, the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; generating, by the arithmetic circuit, a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs; and in response to a configuration signal, configuring the memory circuit to receive the second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA.
9. A method comprising: receiving, by a first memory circuit, a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); providing, by the first memory circuit, a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; storing, by a second memory circuit, data received from a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; providing, by the second memory circuit, a second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receiving, by an arithmetic circuit, the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, the second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, the second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; and generating, by the arithmetic circuit, a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: in response to a first configuration signal, configuring the arithmetic circuit to perform operations on the first set of outputs and the second set of inputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, configuring the arithmetic circuit to perform operations on the second set of outputs and the second set of inputs.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: in response to a first configuration signal, configuring the arithmetic circuit to perform multiplication operations on the second set of outputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, configuring the arithmetic circuit to perform addition operations on the second set of outputs.
12. A method comprising: receiving, by a memory circuit, a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); providing, by the memory circuit, a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; receiving, by an arithmetic circuit, the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, a third set of inputs directly from a cascade output of a second tile of the FPGA; and generating, by the arithmetic circuit, a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: providing, by the arithmetic circuit, a third set of outputs to a third tile of the FPGA via a second cascade output.
14. A method comprising: receiving, by a block random access memory (BRAM), a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); providing, by the BRAM, a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; providing, by the BRAM, a second set of outputs to a second connection fabric of the FPGA; receiving, by an arithmetic circuit, the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receiving, by the arithmetic circuit, a second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA; and generating, by the arithmetic circuit, a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium containing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to control configuration of a field programmable gate array (FPGA) comprising: a memory circuit that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); and provides a first set of outputs within a tile of the FPGA; a second memory circuit that: stores data received from a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; and provides a second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; and an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; receives the second set of inputs from the second connection fabric of the FPGA; receives the second set of outputs within the tile of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein: in response to a first configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform operations on the first set of outputs and the second set of inputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform operations on the second set of outputs and the second set of inputs.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein: in response to a first configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform multiplication operations on the second set of outputs; and in response to a second configuration signal, the arithmetic circuit is configured to perform addition operations on the second set of outputs.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium containing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to control configuration of a field programmable gate array (FPGA) comprising: a memory circuit that: receives a first set of inputs from a first connection fabric of a field programmable gate array (FPGA); and provides a first set of outputs within a first tile of the FPGA; an arithmetic circuit that: receives the first set of outputs within the first tile of the FPGA; receives a second set of inputs from a second connection fabric of the FPGA; receives a third set of inputs directly from a cascade output of a second tile of the FPGA; and generates a result based on a first subset of the first set of outputs and a second subset of the second set of inputs.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the arithmetic circuit further provides a third set of outputs to a third tile of the FPGA via a second cascade output.
</claims>
</document>
