<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/901,G06F16/951,G06F17/27,G06F17/30,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAYIQAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
ASSA, HAIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51691266
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Web-based influence system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A web-based method and system for influencing entities to change their position using semantic web analysis. The identification of entities that might change their position regarding a certain issue is done through their environment, for example by analyzing semantic text between entities) without making a direct connection with those entities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A WEB-based method for automatically identifying semantically a specific issue, by collecting public available information from the WEB regarding said specific issue, clustering at least one entity with an interest in said specific issue into an ontology and automatically clustering into a re-ontology of said at least one entity with an interest in said specific issue, said method comprising: issuing, using a computing device, at least one parameter to indicate an interest in said specific issue of a requested entity; automatically generating, using the computing device, a formal ontology based on a basic entity attributes and identity; automatically generating, using the computing device, at least one friend of a friend graph of entities with links, and having text related to the specific issues, by semantically analyzing the text of said entities; generating, using the computing device, automatic production of a chain of semantic graphs; automatically generating, using the computing device, influencer and influenced maps of entities; automatically generating, using the computing device, at least one cluster by attributes of the at least one entity; automatically analyzing, using the computing device, said clusters; automatically generating, using the computing device, personal friend of a friend graphs for each detected influenced entity and automatically producing said chain of semantic graphs; generating automatically re-ontology regarding said specific issue, by way of optimizing the clustering process in accordance with: said automated friend of a friend graphs linked to said entities texts, said automatically generated chain of graphs, said influencer and influenced maps, said analyzed clusters, and said chain of semantic graphs, and reclustering all optimized graphs into a new set of said graphs and chains; automatically calculating, using the computing device, volatility of each influenced entity; if the result of the calculation of a specific influenced entity is above a predefined threshold then said influenced entity becomes a targeted individual; and creating and executing, using the computing device, strategies to influence said targeted individual to change his opinion on the specific issue, wherein the volatility calculation is based on one or more of the following criteria: the number of entities in the personal friend of a friend graphs in favor of the specific issue with respect to entities in the personal friend of a friend graphs that are not in favor of the specific issue; the strength of the bond between entities that have a similar opinion relative to the strength of the relationship between the entities that do not have a similar opinion.
2. The method according to claim 1 further using the computing device for reducing the influence effect of the influencers entities on the influenced and potential influenced entities regarding the specific issue.
3. The method according to claim 1 further using the computing device for changing the number of influenced entities regarding to a specific issue and to change spreading of the influence by the influenced entities on the public that is not part in the influenced entities.
4. The method according to claim 1 further using the computing device for automatically testing and executing actions in the WEB particularly but not limited to a social network for reducing or increasing the relevance of the specific issue, to reduce or to increase the spreading intensity of the specific issue among the public; and, measuring and estimating the success of actions taken regarding to the specific issue and the entities.
5. The method according to claim 1 wherein, said optimizing of the clustering process is modified during a timeline.
6. The method according to claim 1 wherein said method is based on WEB 2.0 and WEB 3.0 technologies.
7. The method according to claim 1 wherein said issuing at least one parameter to indicate an interest in said specific issue is issued automatically by analyzing text of said requested entity.
8. The method according to claim 1 wherein said friend of a friend graph is stored temporary.
9. The method according to claim 1 wherein, a specific need of an entity at a particular time will be automatically identified; and the formal ontology of the entity will be updated automatically.
10. The method according to claim 1 wherein said friend of a friend graph is updated in any time based on said updated formal ontology.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein, said influenced and influencer maps are updated based on text analysis.
12. The method according to claim 1 wherein, said clusters are updated based on said updated influenced and influencer maps.
13. The method according to claim 1 wherein the optimized data is detected by using statistical criteria and wherein, said optimized data is added as a new attribute.
14. The method according to claim 1, wherein said strategies regarding said targeted individual are examined whether said targeted individual has changed his opinion by using text analysis during a predetermined timeline.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein if during said predetermine timeline of text analysis there is insufficient information to determine whether said targeted individual has changed his opinion then said text analysis continues to be activated to determine if said targeted individual changes his opinion.
16. A web-based system for influencing entities to change their opinion using semantic web analysis for performing an automatic re-ontology as described in claim 1, said system comprising: a data collector layer for collecting data from a variety of web arenas; a data classifier for classifying and filtering the textual information collected by said data collector; a Resource Description Framework (RDF) builder layer for editing said textual information and transforming the textual information into a graph model based on entities and predicates; and an influencers and influenced Social Network Analysis (SNA) Model Builder configured to receive said graph model as an input and with predefined OWL (Ontology Web Language) structure, and configured to convert said graph model to an influencers and influenced SNA model.
17. The web-based system according to claim 16, further comprising a Model Transformation Simulator (MTS) that receives said SNA influencers and influenced model as an input, and enables the users to run several simulations with an actions bank for changing the opinion of entities regarding to a specific issue.
18. A computing device for predicting at least one volatility entity in a social network to change the opinion of a targeted individual regarding a specific issue, said computing device comprising: a processor; a storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executed by the processor for issuing at least one parameter to indicate an interest in said specific issue of a requested entity; logic executed by the processor for generating a formal ontology, based on basic entity attributes and identity; logic executed by the processor for generating at least one friend of a friend graph of entities with links related to the at least one parameter to indicate an interest in said specific issue by analyzing text of said entities semantically; logic executed by the processor for generating influencer and influenced maps; logic executed by the processor for generating at least one cluster by entity attributes; logic executed by the processor for analyzing said clusters; logic executed by the processor for generating personal friend of a friend graphs for each detected influenced entity; logic executed by the processor for calculating volatility of each influenced entity; logic executed by the processor for generating automatically re-ontology regarding said specific issue, by way of optimizing the clustering process with accordance with: said automated friend of a friend graphs links to said entities semantics, said automatic generated graph of graphs, said influencer and influenced maps, said analyzed clusters, and a chain of semantic graphs, and reclustering all the optimized data into a new set of said graphs and chains; automatically calculating, using the computing device, volatility of each influenced entity; wherein if the result of the calculation of a particular influenced entity is above a predefined threshold then said influenced entity becomes a targeted individual; thereby, creating and executing, using the computing device, strategies to influence said targeted individual to change his opinion; and wherein the processor is configured to perform the method of claim 1.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon computer readable instructions for a method for predicting at least one volatility entity in a social network to change his opinion regarding a specific issue, in accordance with the method of claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
