<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B64C39/02,G05D1/00,G05D1/10,G06F17/27,G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G08G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOLAND, GREGORY F.
KOZLOSKI, JAMES R.
MA, YU
MANWEILER, JUSTIN G.
SIEMONSEN, KEVIN E.
TOPKARA, UMUT
VOGT, KATHERINE
WEISZ, JUSTIN D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57120262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method to operate a drone
</title>

<abstract>
A method for controlling a drone includes receiving a request for information about a spatial location, generating data requests, configuring a flight plan and controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location to obtain data types based on the data requests, and extracting and analyzing data to answer the request. The method can include extracting data points from the data types, obtaining labels from a user for one or more of the data points, predicting labels for unlabeled data points from a learning algorithm using the labels obtained from the user, determining the predicted labels are true labels for the unlabeled data points and combining the extracted data, the user labeled data points and the true labeled data points to answer the request for information. The learning algorithm may be active learning using a support vector machine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for controlling one or more drones to respond to a request for information, comprising; receiving a request for information about a spatial location; generating a plurality of data requests corresponding to data necessary to answer the request; configuring a first flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the plurality of data requests; controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the plurality of data requests; analyzing the obtained sensor data to determine whether the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above a threshold; in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above the threshold, analyzing the sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information; and in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence below the threshold, generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request, configuring a second flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests, controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the at least one additional data requests, and analyzing the obtained sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request is automatically generated by an active learning system.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein the configuring a flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests is automatically configured by active learning.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the active learning is provided by a support vector machine.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 3, wherein the active learning is provided by semi-supervised machine learning.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 5, wherein the semi-supervised machine learning includes interactively querying a user to obtain additional data requests.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a natural language question relating to the spatial location; receiving a plurality of requests for information relating to answering the natural language question; searching sensor data obtainable by the at least one drone responsive to the plurality of requests for information; analyzing the obtainable sensor data to determine whether the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above a threshold; in a case in which the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above the threshold, configuring the first flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from the sensors based on the plurality of data requests; and in a case in which the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence below the threshold, generating at least one additional data request relating to answering the natural language question, and configuring a third flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the plurality of data requests and the at least one additional data requests.
8. A non-transitory article of manufacture tangibly embodying computer readable instructions, which when implemented, cause a computer to perform the steps of a method for controlling one or more drones to respond to a request for information, comprising; receiving a request for information about a spatial location; generating a plurality of data requests corresponding to data necessary to answer the request; configuring a first flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the plurality of data requests; controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the plurality of data requests; analyzing the obtained sensor data to determine whether the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above a threshold; in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above the threshold, analyzing the sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information; and in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence below the threshold, generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request, configuring a second flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests, controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the at least one additional data requests, and analyzing the obtained sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information.
9. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 8, wherein the generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request is automatically generated by an active learning system.
10. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 9, wherein the configuring a flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests is automatically configured by active learning.
11. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 10, wherein the active learning is provided by a support vector machine.
12. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 10, wherein the active learning is provided by semi-supervised machine learning.
13. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 12, wherein the semi-supervised machine learning includes interactively querying a user to obtain additional data requests.
14. The non-transitory article of manufacture of claim 8, further comprising: receiving a natural language question relating to the spatial location; receiving a plurality of requests for information relating to answering the natural language question; searching sensor data obtainable by the at least one drone responsive to the plurality of requests for information; analyzing the obtainable sensor data to determine whether the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above a threshold; in a case in which the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above the threshold, configuring the first flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from the sensors based on the plurality of data requests; and in a case in which the natural language question can be answered with a degree of confidence below the threshold, generating at least one additional data request relating to answering the natural language question, and configuring a third flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the plurality of data requests and the at least one additional data requests.
15. A computer system for controlling one or more drones to respond to a request for information, comprising: receiving a request for information about a spatial location; generating a plurality of data requests corresponding to data necessary to answer the request; configuring a first flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the plurality of data requests; controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the plurality of data requests; analyzing the obtained sensor data to determine whether the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above a threshold; in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence equal to or above the threshold, analyzing the sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information; and in a case in which the request for information can be answered with a degree of confidence below the threshold, generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request, configuring a second flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests, controlling one or more drones to fly over the spatial location according to the configured flight plan to obtain the sensor data from the spatial location based on the at least one additional data requests, and analyzing the obtained sensor data to provide an answer to the request for information.
16. The computer system of claim 15, wherein the generating at least one additional data request necessary to answer the request is automatically generated by an active learning system.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the configuring a flight plan for one or more drones over the spatial location to obtain data from sensors based on the at least one additional data requests is automatically configured by active learning.
18. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the active learning is provided by a support vector machine.
19. The computer system of claim 17, wherein the active learning is provided by semi-supervised machine learning.
20. The computer system of claim 19, wherein the semi-supervised machine learning includes interactively querying a user to obtain additional data requests.
</claims>
</document>
