<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01L1/14,G06F3/01,G06F3/041,G06F3/044
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TACTUAL LABS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEIGH, DARREN
LANDA, ADAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61562601
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Pressure and shear sensor
</title>

<abstract>
A sensor for sensing contact with an outside object is disclosed. A sensor stackup has top surface, having an outer skin adapted for contact with the outside object. The stackup also including, a deformable layer below top surface in the stackup, the deformable layer including patches made from conductive or high dielectric material. The stackup further including a capacitive sensor layer below the deformable layer, the capacitive sensor layer comprising conductors that are insulated from the patches. Each of the patches is displaceable with respect to the capacitive sensor layer in response contact with the outside object. The stackup also includes a backing layer below the capacitive sensor layer in the stackup. The sensor further includes capacitive sensor circuitry operatively connected to the capacitive sensor layer, the capacitive sensor circuitry configured to detect changes in capacitive coupling between the conductors of the capacitive sensor layer resulting from displacement of the patches with respect to the capacitive sensor layer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A sensor stackup comprising: sensor layer having top side and a bottom side, the sensor layer having at least one drive conductor and at least one sense conductor; a deformable layer having a top side and a bottom side, the deformable layer being deformable as a result of contact between the sensor stackup by an outside object; the sensor layer and the deformable layer being positioned within the sensor stackup such that the top side of the sensor layer is closer to the bottom side of the deformable layer than it is to the top side of the deformable layer; the deformable layer having a plurality of patches therewithin, the patches being insulated from the sensor layer, and the patches being displaced with respect to the sensor layer by deformation of the deformable layer, thereby causing a change in the capacitive coupling between the at least one drive conductor and at least one sense conductor.
2. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 1, further comprising: top surface positioned on the outer side of the deformable layer, the top surface being adapted for contact with the outside object.
3. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 2, further comprising: backing layer positioned below the sensor layer.
4. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 3, wherein the top surface and the backing layer each comprise a conductive layer.
5. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 2, wherein the top surface comprises at least one feature selected from the group consisting of: ridges, bumps, dimples, embossed areas, protrusions.
6. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 5, wherein the feature provides better tangential grip between the top surface and the outside object.
7. A sensor stackup comprising: sensor layer having top side and a bottom side, the sensor layer having at least one drive conductor and at least one sense conductor; a deformable layer having a top side and a bottom side; a flexible layer having a top side and a bottom side, the flexible layer having a plurality of patches therewithin; the deformable layer being deformable as a result of contact between the sensor stackup by an outside object; the sensor layer and the deformable layer being positioned within the sensor stackup such that the top side of the sensor layer is closer to the bottom side of the deformable layer than it is to the top side of the deformable layer; the deformable layer and the flexible layer being positioned within the sensor stackup such that the bottom side of the flexible layer is closer to the top side of the deformable layer than it is to the bottom side of the deformable layer; the patches being insulated from the at least one drive conductor and the at least one sense conductor, and the patches being displaced with respect to the sensor layer by deformation of the deformable layer, thus causing a change in capacitive coupling between the at least one drive conductor and at least one sense conductor.
8. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 7, further comprising: top surface positioned on the top side of the flexible layer, the top surface being adapted for contact with the outside object.
9. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 8, further comprising: backing layer positioned below the sensor layer.
10. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 9, wherein the top surface and the backing layer each comprise a conductive layer.
11. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 8, wherein the top surface comprises at least one feature selected from the group consisting of: ridges, bumps, dimples, embossed areas, protrusions.
12. A sensor stackup claimed in claim 11, wherein the feature provides better tangential grip between the top surface and the outside object.
13. A sensor for sensing contact with an outside object, the sensor comprising: a sensor stackup comprising: top surface, having an outer skin adapted for contact with the outside object; deformable layer below the top surface in the stackup, the deformable layer comprising a plurality of patches, each of the plurality of patches comprising conductive or high dielectric material; capacitive sensor layer below the top surface in the stackup, the capacitive sensor layer comprising conductors, the conductors being insulated from the patches; each of the plurality of patches configured to be displaced with respect to the capacitive sensor layer in response to at least one specific contact with the outside object; backing layer below the capacitive sensor layer in the stackup; and capacitive sensor circuitry operatively connected to the capacitive sensor layer, the capacitive sensor circuitry configured to detect changes in capacitive coupling between the conductors of the capacitive sensor layer resulting from displacement of the patches with respect to the capacitive sensor layer.
14. The sensor of claim 13, the sensor stackup further comprising: conductive layer below top surface and above the deformable layer in the stackup.
15. The sensor of claim 13, the sensor stackup further comprising: conductive layer below the capacitive sensor layer in the stackup.
16. The sensor of claim 13, the sensor stackup further comprising: first conductive layer below top surface and above the deformable layer in the stackup; and second conductive layer below the capacitive sensor layer in the stackup.
17. The sensor stackup of claim 13, wherein the at least one specific contact is selected from the group consisting of: pressure and shear.
18. The sensor stackup of claim 13, wherein the deformable layer is integrated with the capacitive sensor layer.
19. The sensor stackup of claim 18, wherein the conductors comprising a first group of conductors and a second group of conductors; and the deformable layer is between the first group of conductors and the second group of conductors in the capacitive sensor layer.
</claims>
</document>
