<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/36,G06F16/901,G06F16/951,G06F17/27,G06F3/0484,G06F40/295,G06F40/30,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAIN, MAYANK
AYALA, HECTOR MAURICIO
DURR, CHRISTOPHER JACOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60269908
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Optimized graph traversal
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for optimized graph traversal are disclosed. In one aspect, a method includes the actions of receiving a given phrase that is input through a user interface by a digital component provider. The actions further include determining an entity that is being referred to by the given phrase. The actions further include identifying properties of the entity. The actions further include selecting a subset of the properties that were identified for the entity. The actions further include identifying additional phrases. The actions further include updating the user interface to present at least some of the additional phrases with programmatic controls that assign one or more of the additional phrase as distribution criteria for digital components of the digital component provider in response to activation of the programmatic controls.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a property selector of a front end server that is configured to: receive training data that includes previous phrases submitted by digital component providers and content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases; a knowledge graph traverser that is configured to: determine, by accessing a knowledge graph, an entity that is being referred to by each of the previous phrases submitted by the digital component providers, wherein the knowledge graph comprises nodes that are each uniquely identify different entities and that are connected by relationships between connected nodes; and determine, by accessing the knowledge graph and for each entity referred to by each of the previous phrases, related entities that are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entity, wherein the property selector is configured to: train, using machine learning, a selection model using the submitted phrases, the content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases, the entities referred to by each previous phrase, the related entities that are within the threshold distance of the node corresponding to the entity, and the relationship between the entities referred to by each previous phrase and the related entities, and wherein the front end server is configured to: receive, through a user interface, a phrase submitted by a particular digital component provider; provide the phrase as an input to the selection model; receive, from the selection model and in response to the phrase being provided as the input to the selection model, a group of phrases that are related to the phrase, wherein the group of phrases omits related phrases that have a lower performance characteristic than the phrase submitted by the particular digital component provider; and update the user interface to present at least a portion of the group of phrases with programmatic controls that assign one or more of the phrases of the group of phrases as distribution criteria that control distribution of digital components provided by the digital component provider in response to interaction with the programmatic controls by the particular digital component provider.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the selection model is configured to identify, by traversing a portion of the knowledge graph, entities that are related to a phrase provided to the selection model.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the related entities used to train the selection model are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entities referred to by each previous phrase.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the group of phrases received from the selection model comprise a minimum spanning tree among the phrase.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the front end server is configured to receive an activation of a particular programmatic control of the programmatic controls, the particular programmatic control assigning a particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for a particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider, and the property selector is configured to update the selection model based on the activation of the particular programmatic control assigning the particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for the particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the selection model is configured to reduce a number of accesses to the knowledge graph when identifying the group of phrases.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the front end server is configured to: provide the phrase as an input to the selection model by providing the phrase as an input to the selection model that identifies entities that are related to the phrase and identifies the group of phrases that are related to the phrase.
8. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving training data that includes previous phrases submitted by digital component providers and content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases; determining, by accessing a knowledge graph, an entity that is being referred to by each of the previous phrases submitted by the digital component providers, wherein the knowledge graph comprises nodes that are each uniquely identify different entities and that are connected by relationships between connected nodes; determining, by accessing the knowledge graph and for each entity referred to by each of the previous phrases, related entities that are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entity; training, using machine learning, a selection model using the submitted phrases, the content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases, the entities referred to by each previous phrase, the related entities that are within the threshold distance of the node corresponding to the entity, and the relationship between the entities referred to by each previous phrase and the related entities; receiving, through a user interface, a phrase submitted by a particular digital component provider; providing the phrase as an input to the selection model; receiving, from the selection model and in response to the phrase being provided as the input to the selection model, a group of phrases that are related to the phrase, wherein the group of phrases omits related phrases that have a lower performance characteristic than the phrase submitted by the particular digital component provider; and updating the user interface to present at least a portion of the group of phrases with programmatic controls that assign one or more of the phrases of the group of phrases as distribution criteria that control distribution of digital components provided by the digital component provider in response to interaction with the programmatic controls by the particular digital component provider.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the selection model is configured to identify, by traversing a portion of the knowledge graph, entities that are related to a phrase provided to the selection model.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the related entities used to train the selection model are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entities referred to by each previous phrase.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the group of phrases received from the selection model comprise a minimum spanning tree among the phrase.
12. The method of claim 8, comprising: receiving an activation of a particular programmatic control of the programmatic controls, the particular programmatic control assigning a particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for a particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider; and updating the selection model based on the activation of the particular programmatic control assigning the particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for the particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the selection model is configured to reduce a number of accesses to the knowledge graph when identifying the group of phrases.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein: providing the phrase as an input to the selection model comprises providing the phrase as an input to the selection model that identifies entities that are related to the phrase and identifies the group of phrases that are related to the phrase.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing software comprising instructions executable by one or more computers which, upon such execution, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: receiving training data that includes previous phrases submitted by digital component providers and content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases; determining, by accessing a knowledge graph, an entity that is being referred to by each of the previous phrases submitted by the digital component providers, wherein the knowledge graph comprises nodes that are each uniquely identify different entities and that are connected by relationships between connected nodes; determining, by accessing the knowledge graph and for each entity referred to by each of the previous phrases, related entities that are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entity; training, using machine learning, a selection model using the submitted phrases, the content selected by the digital component providers in response to the submitted phrases, the entities referred to by each previous phrase, the related entities that are within the threshold distance of the node corresponding to the entity; receiving, through a user interface, a phrase submitted by a digital component provider; providing the phrase as an input to the selection model; receiving, from the selection model and in response to the phrase being provided as the input to the selection model, a group of phrases that are related to the phrase, wherein the group of phrases omits related phrases that have a lower performance characteristic than the phrase submitted by the particular digital component provider; and updating the user interface to present at least a portion of the group of phrases with programmatic controls that assign one or more of the phrases of the group of phrases as distribution criteria that control distribution of digital components provided by the digital component provider in response to interaction with the programmatic controls by the particular digital component provider.
16. The medium of claim 15, wherein the selection model is configured to identify, by traversing a portion of the knowledge graph, entities that are related to a phrase provided to the selection model.
17. The medium of claim 15, wherein the related entities used to train the selection model are within a threshold distance of a node corresponding to the entities referred to by each previous phrase.
18. The medium of claim 15, wherein the operations comprise: receiving an activation of a particular programmatic control of the programmatic controls, the particular programmatic control assigning a particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for a particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider; and updating the selection model based on the activation of the particular programmatic control assigning the particular phrase of the group of phrases as distribution criteria for the particular digital component of the digital components of the digital component provider.
19. The medium of claim 15, wherein the selection model is configured to reduce a number of accesses to the knowledge graph when identifying the group of phrases.
20. The medium of claim 15, wherein: providing the phrase as an input to the selection model comprises providing the phrase as an input to the selection model that identifies entities that are related to the phrase and identifies the group of phrases that are related to the phrase.
</claims>
</document>
