<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06F17/50,G06F30/20,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04W12/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KNOWBE4
</assignee>

<inventors>
SJOUWERMAN, STU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62022694
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for an artificial intelligence driven smart template
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure describes systems and methods for determining a subsequent action of a simulated phishing campaign. A campaign controller identifies a starting action for a simulated phishing campaign directed to a user of a plurality of users. The simulated phishing campaign includes a plurality of actions, one or more of the plurality of actions to be determined during execution of the simulated phishing campaign The campaign controller responsive to the starting action, communicates a simulated phishing communication to one or more devices of a user. The campaign controller determines a subsequent action of the plurality of actions of the simulated phishing campaign based at least on one of a response to the simulated phishing communication received by the campaign controller or a lack of response within a predetermined time period and initiating, responsive to the determination, the subsequent action of the simulated phishing campaign.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a subsequent action of a simulated phishing campaign, the method comprising: (a) identifying, by a campaign controller, a starting action for a simulated phishing campaign directed to a user of a plurality of users, the simulated phishing campaign comprising a plurality of actions, one or more of the plurality of actions to be determined during execution of the simulated phishing campaign; (b) communicating, by the campaign controller responsive to the starting action, a simulated phishing communication to one or more devices of a user, a subsequent action to the starting action to be determined by the campaign controller after the starting action and before the simulated phishing campaign is determined to be complete; (c) determining, by the campaign controller during execution of the simulated phishing campaign, the subsequent action to be executed by the campaign controller of the plurality of actions of the simulated phishing campaign based at least on one of a response to the simulated phishing communication received by the campaign controller or a lack of response within a predetermined time period; and (d) initiating, by the campaign controller responsive to the determination, execution of the subsequent action during execution of the simulated phishing campaign.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises identifying, by the campaign controller, a type of communication for the starting action, the type of communication including one of the following: email, a text or short message service (SMS) message, a phone call or an Internet based communication.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises selecting the starting action based on at least one of the following: an industry of a company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within a company of the user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises selecting the starting action based on at least attributes of or a profile of the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises selecting the starting action based on at least a history of a user with respect to simulated phishing communications.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises selecting, by the campaign controller, the starting action from a plurality of starting actions responsive to applying a machine learning model on results of executed simulated phishing campaigns.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein (a) further comprises selecting, by the campaign controller, the starting action from a plurality of starting actions responsive to applying a machine learning model on a history or behavior of the user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein (b) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, a device of the one or more devices of the user to communicate the simulated phishing communication.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, a timing of the subsequent action based at least on at least one of the response, attributes of the user, a company of the user, an industry of the company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within the company of the user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, a type of communication for the subsequent action based at least on one of the response attributes of the user, a company of the user, an industry of the company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within the company of the user, wherein the type of communication comprises one of the following: email, a text or short message service (SMS) message, a phone call or an Internet based communication.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, the subsequent action responsive to applying a machine learning model on a history or behavior of the user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, the subsequent action responsive to applying a machine learning model on results of executed simulated phishing campaigns.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein (c) further comprises determining, by the campaign controller, content of a second simulated phishing communication for the subsequent action based at least on the response.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein (d) further comprises communicating, by the campaign controller, a second simulated phishing communication as the subsequent action to the one or more devices of the user.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising communicating, by the campaign controller, the simulated phishing communication as the subsequent action in accordance with a persona model selected for the user.
16. A system for determining a subsequent action of a simulated phishing campaign, the system comprising: a campaign controller executable on a device comprising a processor, coupled to memory, the campaign controller configured to: identify a starting action for a simulated phishing campaign directed to a user of a plurality of users, the simulated phishing campaign comprising a plurality of actions, one or more of the plurality of actions to be determined during execution of the simulated phishing campaign, a subsequent action to the starting action to be determined by the campaign controller after the starting action and before the simulated phishing campaign is determined to be complete; communicate, responsive to the starting action, a simulated phishing communication to one or more devices of a user; determine, during execution of the simulated phishing campaign, the subsequent action to be executed by the campaign controller of the plurality of actions of the simulated phishing campaign based at least on one of a response to the simulated phishing communication received by the campaign controller or a lack of response within a predetermined time period; and initiate, responsive to the determination, execution of the subsequent action by the campaign controller during execution of the simulated phishing campaign.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to identify a type of communication for the starting action, the type of communication including one of the following: email, a text or short message service (SMS) message, a phone call or an Internet based communication.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to select the starting action based on at least one of the following: an industry of a company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within company of the user.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to select the starting action based on at least attributes of or a profile of the user.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to select the starting action based on at least a history of a user with respect to simulated phishing communications.
21. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to select the starting action from a plurality of starting actions responsive to applying a machine learning model on results of executed simulated phishing campaigns.
22. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to select the starting action from a plurality of starting actions responsive to applying a machine learning model on a history or behavior of the user.
23. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine a device of the one or more devices of the user to communicate the simulated phishing communication.
24. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine a timing of the subsequent action based at least on one of the response, attributes of the user, a company of the user, an industry of the company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within the company of the user.
25. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine a type of communication for the subsequent action based at least one of the response, attributes of the user, a company of the user, an industry of the company of the user, a geographic region of the user, a demographic of the user or an organizational level within the company of the user, wherein the type of communication comprises one of the following: email, a text or short message service (SMS) message, a phone call or an Internet based communication.
26. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine the subsequent action responsive to applying a machine learning model on a history or behavior of the user.
27. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine the subsequent action responsive to applying a machine learning model on results of executed simulated phishing campaigns.
28. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to determine content of a second simulated phishing communication for the subsequent action based at least on the response.
29. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to communication as the subsequent action a second simulated phishing communication to the one or more devices of the user.
30. The system of claim 16, wherein the campaign controller is further configured to communicate a simulated phishing communication as the subsequent action in accordance with a persona model selected for the user.
</claims>
</document>
