<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04M3/36,H04M3/51,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAASTLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JAIN, CHIRAG
RAI, PRASHANT KUMAR
SINGH, AVINASH
SINHA, ANKITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72289873
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for forecasting inbound telecommunications associated with an electronic transactions subscription platform
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems and methods for forecasting inbound telecommunications, and more particularly, for analyzing real-time and historical call center data, and applying a forecasting model to said data in order to predict inbound call volume. Additionally, tools are disclosed for manipulating call center data and generating visual representations of metrics pertaining to forecasting call center data via a dashboard.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for forecasting inbound telecommunications comprising: estimating a number of expected daily retained users within a specific window of time; estimating a number of acquired new users added each day over the specific window of time via a decay function; calculating an expected daily user count based on the estimated number of expected daily retained users and acquired new users; calculating a total user call rate based on a historic cancellation rate and a historic resolution rate; and calculating a total number of expected calls based on the expected daily user count and total user call rate.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises implementing machine learning techniques in or to generate an expected daily acquired user count.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises receiving inbound communications at a call center from a public switched telephone network and routing inbound communications to an employee associated with the call center.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: predicting expected user count and current communication trends for an upcoming 30 day window.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: calculating an average error associated with the actual and predicted expected total call count.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: generating a forecasting report via a graphical user interface; and wherein the forecasting report depicts predicted call ranges as a function of volume over time via a heat map.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein calculating expected user count further comprises: receiving input data for one or more of: historic actual user call rate, average call rate, and user cancellations.
8. A system for forecasting inbound telecommunications comprising: a storage device that stores instructions; and at least one processor that executes the instructions in order for: estimating a number of expected daily retained users within a specific window of time; estimating a number of acquired new users added each day over the specific window of time via a decay function; calculating an expected daily user count based on the estimated number of expected daily retained users and acquired new users; calculating a total user call rate based on a historic cancellation rate and a historic resolution rate; and calculating a total number of expected calls based on the expected daily user count and total user call rate.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises implementing machine learning techniques in or to generate an expected daily acquired user count.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises receiving inbound communications at a call center from a public switched telephone network and routing inbound communications to an employee associated with the call center.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: predicting expected user count and current communication trends for an upcoming 30 day window.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: calculating an average error associated with the actual and predicted expected total call count.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: generating a forecasting report via a graphical user interface; and wherein the forecasting report depicts predicted call ranges as a function of volume over time via a heat map.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein calculating expected user count further comprises: receiving input data for one or more of: historic actual user call rate, average call rate, and user cancellations.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions for forecasting inbound telecommunications, the instructions configured to cause at least one processor to perform operations comprising: estimating a number of expected daily retained users within a specific window of time; estimating a number of acquired new users added each day over the specific window of time via a decay function; calculating an expected daily user count based on the estimated number of expected daily retained users and acquired new users; calculating a total user call rate based on a historic cancellation rate and a historic resolution rate; and calculating a total number of expected calls based on the expected daily user count and total user call rate.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises implementing machine learning techniques in or to generate an expected daily acquired user count.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises receiving inbound communications at a call center from a public switched telephone network and routing inbound communications to an employee associated with the call center.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: predicting expected user count and current communication trends for an upcoming 30 day window.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: calculating an average error associated with the actual and predicted expected total call count.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein forecasting inbound telecommunications further comprises: generating a forecasting report via a graphical user interface; and wherein the forecasting report depicts predicted call ranges as a function of volume over time via a heat map.
</claims>
</document>
