<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0402,A61B5/08,A61B5/11,A61B7/02,A61N1/372,G16H10/20,G16H20/40,G16H40/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARDIAC PACEMAKERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAILE, KEITH R.
RUBLE, STEPHEN B.
SHEN, ZHE
TERNES, DAVID J.
THAKUR, PRAMODSINGH H.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57868413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Obtaining high-resolution information from an implantable medical device
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure include systems and methods for obtaining high-resolution data from implantable medical devices (IMDs) by triggering a limited-time system behavior change. For example, embodiments include utilizing study prescriptions for batching data obtained by an IMD, communicating the batched data to an external device, and reconstructing the batched data at the external device. Study prescriptions refer to sets of instructions, conditions, protocols, and/or the like, that specify one or more of an information gathering scheme and a communication scheme, and may be configured, for example, to obtain information at a resolution sufficient for performing a certain analysis (e.g., associated with a diagnostic model), while managing the resulting impact to device longevity and/or performance.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A system, comprising: an implantable medical device (IMD) configured to be implanted within a patient's body, the IMD comprising: a sensing component configured to obtain values of a first physiological parameter; a power source configured to provide power to the IMD; and a first communication component configured to transmit, according to a study prescription, the values of the first physiological parameter, the study prescription comprising: (i) a study selection component configured to select a diagnostic model from among a plurality of candidate diagnostic models, (ii) a prescription generator configured to generate the study prescription based on the selected diagnostic model, and (iii) a communication scheme that is configured based on an impact on a longevity of at least one component of the IMD, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with operating the sensing component to obtain the values of the first physiological parameter; and an external monitoring device (EMD) configured to be disposed outside of a patient's body, the EMD comprising a second communication component, configured to receive, from the first communication component, the values of the first physiological parameter.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD further corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with information transmission from the IMD to the EMD.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the study prescription further includes instructions configured to cause the sensing component to store the values of the first physiological parameter.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD further corresponds to storing the values of the first physiological parameter.
5. The system of claim 1, the IMD further comprising a trigger component configured to detect, based on a first set of information, a trigger event, wherein the first set of information comprises a set of values of a second physiological parameter.
6. The system of claim 1, the EMD further comprising a trigger component configured to detect, based on a first set of information, a trigger event, wherein the first set of information comprises values of a second physiological parameter.
7. The system of claim 5, the values of the second physiological parameter comprising additional values of the first physiological parameter.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a management server, the management server comprising a third communication component configured to communicate with the second communication component.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein at least one of the EMD and management server provides an analysis component configured to analyze at least the values of the first physiological parameter.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the analysis component is configured to implement one or more adjudication algorithms to adjudicate a diagnosis based on the values of the first physiological parameter.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein at least one of the IMD, EMD, and management server implements a prescription component, the prescription component configured to enable implementation of the study prescription.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the management server further comprises a confirmation component configured to provide a notification of the study prescription to a user device, and to receive, from the user device, at least one of a confirmation of the study prescription or a modification of the study prescription.
13. The system of claim 1, the IMD further comprising a controller, wherein the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with processing, using the controller, the values of the first physiological parameter.
14. A method comprising: sensing values of a first physiological parameter using an implantable medical device (IMD); and transmitting, from the IMD to an external medical device (EMD), the values of the first physiological parameter according to a study prescription, the study prescription comprising: (i) a study selection component configured to select a diagnostic model from among a plurality of candidate diagnostic models, (ii) a prescription generator configured to generate the study prescription based on the selected diagnostic model, and (iii) a communication scheme that is configured based on an impact on a longevity of at least one component of the IMD, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with operating the sensing component to obtain the values of the first physiological parameter.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD further corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with information transmission from the IMD to the EMD.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with processing, using the controller, the values of the first physiological parameter.
17. A system, comprising: an implantable medical device (IMD) configured to be implanted within a patient's body, the IMD comprising: a sensing component configured to obtain values of a first physiological parameter; a power source configured to provide power to the IMD; a first communication component configured to transmit, according to a study prescription, the values of the first physiological parameter, the study prescription comprising a communication scheme that is configured based on an impact on a longevity of at least one component of the IMD; and an external monitoring device (EMD) configured to be disposed outside of a patient's body, the EMD comprising a second communication component, configured to receive, from the first communication component, the values of the first physiological parameter, and wherein the IMD, the EMD, or the IMD and the EMD comprise a prescription component configured to: select a diagnostic model from among a plurality of candidate diagnostic models; and generate the study prescription based on the selected diagnostic model.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the communication scheme that is configured based on the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD further corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with information transmission from the IMD to the EMD.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the impact on the longevity of the at least one component of the IMD corresponds to an amount of power consumption associated with operating the sensing component to obtain the values of the first physiological parameter.
</claims>
</document>
