<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B11/14,G06K9/00,G06K9/36,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T3/00,G06T5/00,G06T7/12,G06T7/50,H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KOFAX
</assignee>

<inventors>
MA JIYONG
AMTRUP, JAN W.
THOMPSON, STEPHEN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65720519
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content-based object detection, 3D reconstruction, and data extraction from digital images
</title>

<abstract>
A method of detecting an object depicted in a digital image includes: detecting a plurality of identifying features of the object, wherein the plurality of identifying features are located internally with respect to the object; projecting a location of region(s) of interest of the object based on the plurality of identifying features, where each region of interest depicts content; building and/or selecting an extraction model configured to extract the content based at least in part on: the location of the region(s) of interest, the of identifying feature(s), or both; and extracting the some or all of the content from the digital image using the extraction model. Corresponding system and computer program product embodiments are disclosed. The inventive concepts enable reliable extraction of data from digital images where portions of an object are obscured/missing, and/or depicted on a complex background.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of detecting an object depicted in a digital image, the method comprising: detecting, using a hardware processor, a plurality of identifying features of the object, wherein the plurality of identifying features are located internally with respect to the object; projecting, using the hardware processor, a location of one or more regions of interest of the object based at least in part on the plurality of identifying features, wherein each region of interest depicts content, and wherein at least some of the regions of interest comprise feature zones; building and/or selecting, using the hardware processor, an extraction model configured to extract some or all of the content based at least in part on: the location of the one or more regions of interest, the plurality of identifying features, or both the location of the one or more regions of interest and the plurality of identifying features; and extracting, using the hardware processor, the some or all of the content from the digital image using the extraction model; wherein detecting the plurality of identifying features comprises automatic discovery of the feature zones; and wherein automatic feature zone discovery comprises: matching a plurality of pixels in the digital image to a plurality of corresponding pixels in a plurality of reference images to form a set of matching pairs, each matching pair including one pixel from the digital image and one pixel from one of the plurality of reference images; and determining a subset of the matching pairs exhibiting a frequency within the set of matching pairs that is greater than a predetermined frequency threshold.
2. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the plurality of identifying features comprise boilerplate content.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the content extracted from the digital image comprises variable content.
4. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein at least some of the content extracted from the digital image comprises variable content positioned adjacent to boilerplate content representing some of the plurality of identifying features.
5. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein the content extracted from the digital image is selected based on a downstream application in which the extracted content will be utilized.
6. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising transforming the digital image to display the projected location of the one or more regions of interest of the object.
7. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising identifying a plurality of distinctive pixels within the plurality of identifying features of the object.
8. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising matching the digital image depicting the object to one of a plurality of reference images each depicting a known object type, wherein the matching comprises determining whether the object includes distinctive pixels that correspond to distinctive pixels present in one or more of the plurality of reference images.
9. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising: matching the digital image depicting the object to one of a plurality of reference images each depicting a known object type.
10. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 9, comprising: designating as an outlier a candidate match between a distinctive pixel in the digital image and one or more candidate corresponding distinctive pixels present in one of the plurality of reference images; wherein the outlier is designated in response to determining a distance ratio is greater than a predetermined distance ratio threshold, wherein the distance ratio is a ratio describing: a first distance between the distinctive pixel in the digital image and a first of the one or more candidate corresponding distinctive pixels; and a second distance between the distinctive pixel in the digital image and a second of the one or more candidate corresponding distinctive pixels.
11. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 9, comprising: designating as an outlier a candidate match between a distinctive pixel in the digital image and a candidate corresponding distinctive pixel present in one of the plurality of reference images in response to determining the candidate match is not unique.
12. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein at least a portion of one or more edges of the object is at least partially obscured and/or missing in the digital image.
13. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, wherein projecting the location of the one or more regions of interest of the object is based on a mapping of key points within some or all of the plurality of identifying features to key points of a reference image depicting an object belonging to a same class as the object depicted in the digital image.
14. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising cropping the digital image based at least in part on a projected location of one or more edges of the object, wherein the projected location of the one or more edges of the object is based at least in part on the plurality of identifying features; wherein the cropped digital image depicts a portion of a background of the digital image surrounding the object; and wherein the method comprises detecting one or more transitions between the background and the object within the cropped digital image.
15. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising: cropping the digital image based at least in part on a projected location of one or more edges of the object; and classifying the object depicted within the cropped digital image.
16. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, comprising: attempting to detect the object within the digital image using a plurality of predetermined object detection models each corresponding to a known object type; and determining a classification of the object based on a result of attempting to detect the object within the digital image using the plurality of predetermined object detection models; and wherein the classification of the object is determined to be the known object type corresponding to one of the object detection models for which the attempt to detect the object within the digital image was successful.
17. A computer-implemented method of detecting an object depicted in a digital image, the method comprising: detecting, using a hardware processor, a plurality of identifying features of the object, wherein the plurality of identifying features are located internally with respect to the object; projecting, using the hardware processor, a location of one or more regions of interest of the object based at least in part on the plurality of identifying features, wherein each region of interest depicts content; building and/or selecting, using the hardware processor, an extraction model configured to extract some or all of the content based at least in part on: the location of the one or more regions of interest, the plurality of identifying features, or both the location of the one or more regions of interest and the plurality of identifying features; and extracting, using the hardware processor, the some or all of the content from the digital image using the extraction model; and wherein detecting the plurality of identifying features comprises analyzing a plurality of feature vectors each corresponding to pixels within a patch of the digital image to determine whether the patch includes a sharp transition in intensity.
18. A computer-implemented method of detecting an object depicted in a digital image, the method comprising: detecting, using a hardware processor, a plurality of identifying features of the object, wherein the plurality of identifying features are located internally with respect to the object; projecting, using the hardware processor, a location of one or more regions of interest of the object based at least in part on the plurality of identifying features, wherein each region of interest depicts content; building and/or selecting, using the hardware processor, an extraction model configured to extract some or all of the content based at least in part on: the location of the one or more regions of interest, the plurality of identifying features, or both the location of the one or more regions of interest and the plurality of identifying features; extracting, using the hardware processor, the some or all of the content from the digital image using the extraction model; generating a plurality of scaled images based on the digital image, each scaled image being characterized by a different resolution; extracting one or more feature vectors from each scaled image; and matching one or more of the scaled images to one of a plurality of reference images, each reference image depicting a known object type and being characterized by a known resolution.
</claims>
</document>
