<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
C23C14/24,C23C14/34,G05B13/02,G05B19/418,H01J37/32,H01L21/02,H01L21/285,H01L21/311,H01L21/66,H01L21/67,H01L21/677,H01L21/76,H01L21/768
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOKYO ELECTRON
</assignee>

<inventors>
YU, KAI-HUNG
TAPILY, KANDABARA
CLARK, ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67983243
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Platform and method of operating for integrated end-to-end fully self-aligned interconnect process
</title>

<abstract>
A method for forming a fully self-aligned via is provided. A workpiece having a pattern of features in a dielectric layer is received into a common manufacturing platform. Metal caps are deposited on the metal features, and a barrier layer is deposited on the metal caps. A first dielectric layer is added to exposed dielectric material. The barrier layer is removed and an etch stop layer is added on the exposed surfaces of the first dielectric layer and the metal caps. Additional dielectric material is added on top of the etch stop layer, then both the additional dielectric material and a portion of the etch stop layer are etched to form a feature to be filled with metal material. An integrated sequence of processing steps is executed within one or more common manufacturing platforms to provide controlled environments. Transfer modules transfer the workpiece between processing modules within and between controlled environments.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of preparing for a self-aligned via on a semiconductor workpiece, the method comprising: using an integrated sequence of processing steps executed on a common manufacturing platform hosting a plurality of processing modules including one or more film-forming modules, one or more etching modules, and one or more transfer modules, the integrated sequence of processing steps comprising: receiving the workpiece into the common manufacturing platform, the workpiece having a pattern of metal features in a dielectric layer wherein exposed surfaces of the metal features and exposed surfaces of the dielectric layer together define an upper planar surface; selectively depositing metal caps on the exposed surfaces of the metal features relative to the exposed dielectric material using one of the one or more of the film-forming modules, the selectivity between the metal cap and the dielectric material being based, at least in part, on a metal layer deposition rate on the metal features than on the dielectric material; selectively forming a barrier layer on the metal caps, using one of the one or more film-forming modules, relative to the exposed dielectric material, the selectivity between the metal cap and the dielectric material being based, at least in part, on a higher barrier layer deposition rate on the metal caps than on the dielectric material; selectively depositing a first dielectric material on the exposed surfaces of the dielectric layer using one of the one or more film-forming modules to form a recess pattern in the first dielectric material, the selective deposition being based, at least in part, on a deposition rate of the first dielectric material being higher on the exposed surfaces than on the metal caps, the recess pattern comprising a sidewall including a portion of the first dielectric material; treating the workpiece to expose the metal caps at bottom surfaces of the recess pattern using one of the one or more etch modules; and depositing an etch stop layer over the recess pattern using one of the one or more film-forming modules, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps is executed in a controlled environment within the common manufacturing platform and without leaving the controlled environment, and wherein the one or more transfer modules are used to transfer the workpiece between the plurality of processing modules while maintaining the workpiece within the controlled environment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein depositing the barrier layer encases the metal caps over the pattern of metal features.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein selectively depositing the metal caps includes a selectivity to the metal features relative to the dielectric layer of at least 10:1.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the controlled environment includes a vacuum, an inert gas, or combinations thereof.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the metal caps comprise ruthenium and the metal features comprise copper.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the barrier layer comprises a self-assembled monolayer.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the selective deposition comprises two or more deposition steps which apply 10 nm or less of the first dielectric material on the workpiece.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps further comprises pre-treating the workpiece before depositing the metal caps to alter a surface termination of the first dielectric material, and wherein the pretreating is done in one or more pre-treatment modules on the common manufacturing platform.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps further comprises removing any metal from the first dielectric material, using the one-or-more etching chambers, during the metal cap deposition step.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps further comprises removing the first dielectric material from the barrier layer or metal caps during the first dielectric material deposition step.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps further comprises removing the first dielectric material and/or the barrier layer from the metal caps during the first dielectric material deposition step.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps further comprises selectively forming a replacement barrier layer on the metal caps, using one of the one or more film-forming modules, relative to the exposed dielectric material; the selectivity between the metal cap and the dielectric material being based, at least in part, on a higher replacement barrier layer deposition rate on the metal caps than on the dielectric material.
13. The method of claim 1 further comprising depositing a second dielectric material on the etch stop layer to form an interlayer dielectric film over and/or in the recess pattern using one of the one or more film-forming modules.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the dielectric layer comprises an oxide and the first dielectric material is an oxide different from the oxide of the dielectric layer.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the metals caps comprise ruthenium, cobalt, tungsten, or molybdenum.
16. A method of preparing for a self-aligned via on a semiconductor workpiece, the method comprising: using an integrated sequence of processing steps executed on a common manufacturing platform hosting a plurality of processing modules including one or more film-forming modules, one or more etching modules, and one or more transfer modules, the integrated sequence of processing steps comprising: receiving the workpiece into the common manufacturing platform, the workpiece having a pattern of metal features in a dielectric layer wherein exposed surfaces of the metal features and exposed surfaces of the dielectric layer together define an upper planar surface; selectively depositing metal caps on the exposed surfaces of the metal features relative to the exposed dielectric material using one of the one or more of the film-forming modules; selectively forming a recessed pattern of dielectric material around the metal features relative to the dielectric material, with the metal caps forming a bottom surface of the recessed pattern, the metal caps being exposed from the top of the trench; and depositing an etch stop layer over the recess pattern using one of the one or more film-forming modules, wherein the integrated sequence of processing steps is executed in a controlled environment within the common manufacturing platform and without leaving the controlled environment, and wherein the one or more transfer modules are used to transfer the workpiece between the plurality of processing modules while maintaining the workpiece within the controlled environment.
</claims>
</document>
