<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F19/00,G16H10/20,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HI-Q COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JIAO, SHUO
SHAH, MUNJAL
SINGH, ARDAMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55961953
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for providing a health determination service based on user knowledge and activity
</title>

<abstract>
Examples are provided herein for providing a service in connection with determining a health of a user. A collection of questions are stored for the user, with each question being based on a documented assertion pertaining to human health. Each question in the collection of questions is associated with a correlative health parameter that is based at least in part on (i) persons in a control population that have independent knowledge of an assertion that is a basis of that question, and (ii) a value of a predetermined health parameter for each person in the control population, the value of the predetermined health parameter for each person being indicative of that person's health. Based on data generated by one or more activity monitoring devices, questions from the collection are selected for display to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system implementing a health service, the computing system comprising: a database storing a collection of questions, each respective question in the collection of questions being associated with a correlative health value based on answers to the respective question provided by individuals in a control population of which a health outcome is known, and wherein the collection of questions are configured to test general health knowledge of users of the health service and not query user-specific health information of the users; a network communication interface providing wireless network connectivity to computing devices of users of the health service; one or more processors; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to: execute, by the computing system, a correlation model to determine the correlative health value for each respective question in the collection of questions based on (i) the answers to the respective question provided by the individuals in the control population, and (ii) the known health outcomes of each of the individuals in the control population, wherein the correlative health value for each respective question in the collection of questions corresponds to a set of health correlations between knowledge of a correct answer to the respective question and the known health outcomes of the individuals in the control population; establish, using the network communication interface, a wireless network connection with one or more wearable activity monitoring devices and a computing device of a user of the health service; receive, via the wireless network connection, activity data from the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices, the activity data being generated by sensors of the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices of the user and indicating at least one of (i) a distance traveled during an exercise routine, (ii) a type of exercise routine performed by the user, (iii) a duration of an exercise routine, (iv) biometric data from monitoring the user with one or more sensors of the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices, (v) a location of the user at a given time, or (vi) a time of day when the user performed a particular activity; based at least in part on the received activity data, select a set of questions from the collection of questions to display to the user; transmit, over the wireless network connection with the computing device of the user, display data to the computing device of the user, the display data causing the computing device to generate a user interface on a display screen of the computing device, the user interface presenting the selected set of questions from the collection of questions to the user; receive, over the wireless network connection, a set of responses to the set of questions from the computing device of the user; for each response in the received set of responses, determine a correctness for the response, the correctness indicating whether the user has answered a selected question corresponding to the response correctly or incorrectly; based on (i) the correctness of each response in the received set of responses, (ii) the correlative health value for each response in the received set of responses, and (iii) the activity data received from the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices of the user, generate a health profile for the user, the health profile being predictive of a future health outcome of the user; based on the health profile and the predicted future health outcome of the user, determine that the user qualifies for one or more health service benefits from one or more health service providers; and generate, via the user interface on the computing device of the user, a service customer interface (i) displaying the one or more health service benefits from the one or more health service providers, and (ii) enabling the user to receive the one or more health service benefits.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the health service benefit comprises at least one of a premium or discount for the user for one or more health-related services.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the predicted future health outcome indicates at least one of (i) a predicted number of visits or stays to a medical health facility by the user in a given duration of time, (ii) a predicted amount of sick time the user will incur in a given duration of time, or (iii) a predicted number of prescriptions that the user will need over a given duration of time.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: determine a response score for the user based on the correctness of each response, of the received set of responses, to the set of questions; determine a health score for the user based at least in part on the response score; and provide, via the user interface generated on the computing device of the user, the health score to the user.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to determine the health score for the user by determining a likelihood of the predicted future health outcome for the user over a given duration of time.
6. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the executed instructions cause the computing system to further determine the health score of the user based on the received activity data from the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices of the user.
7. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: based on the correctness of each response, of the received set of responses, to the set of questions, determine a health topic about which the user is unknowledgeable; and provide, via the user interface generated on the computing device of the user, information corresponding to the health topic for the user.
8. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: based on the correctness of each response of the received set of responses to the set of questions, determine topical subject matter to present to the user when the response score of the user exceeds a threshold for a first health topic and is below the threshold for a second health topic.
9. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the health score for the user is not visible to the user, and wherein the response score is displayed to the user on the computing device.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more wearable activity monitoring devices comprise a wearable electronic device worn on a wrist of the user, the wearable electronic device syncing with the computing device of the user.
11. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the set of questions are displayed on the computing device of the user as an online multi-user trivia game.
12. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the executed instructions further cause the computing system to: select a health service product for the user based on the predicted future health outcome of the user.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the selected health service product comprises a health insurance plan or a life insurance plan.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the health service benefit comprises one of a discount or a premium for the health insurance plan or the life insurance plan.
</claims>
</document>
