<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01M15/02,G06F16/901,G10L25/51,H04R29/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
WOOD, III, DAVID ALVRA
VERMA, DINESH, C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70775170
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-modal anomaly detection
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment of the invention may include a method, computer program product and computer system for multi-modal anomaly detection. The method, computer program product and computer system may include computing device which may receive primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a first device and determining a baseline from the primary sensor data for the first device. The computing device may receive primary sensor data from a primary sensor and secondary sensor data from a secondary sensor for a second device. The computing device may determine an anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device based on the determined baseline for the first device and compare the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for multi-modal anomaly detection, the method comprising: receiving, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a first device; determining, by the computing device, a baseline from the primary sensor data for the first device receiving, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a second device; receiving, by a computing device, secondary sensor data from a secondary sensor for the second device; determining, by a computing device, an anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device based on the determined baseline for the first device; and comparing, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device.
2. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: comparing, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and suppressing, by the computing device, the primary sensor in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does not support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
3. A method as in claim 1, wherein the comparing, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device further comprises: creating, by the computing device, an anomaly dependency graph, wherein the anomaly dependency graph captures the relationships between the anomaly in the primary sensor data and the secondary sensor data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the computing device, a notification indicating no anomaly was found for the second device.
5. A method as in claim 1, further comprising: comparing, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and generating, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
6. A method as in claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that no anomaly was detected in the secondary sensor data for the second device.
7. A method as in claim 1, wherein the primary sensor is an acoustic analytics device.
8. A method as in claim 1, wherein the secondary sensor device comprises at least one of the group consisting of: an imaging device, a presence sensor device, and a door sensor device.
9. A computer program product for multi-modal anomaly detection, the computer program product comprising: a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a first device; program instructions to determine, by the computing device, a baseline from the primary sensor data for the first device program instructions to receive, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a second device; program instructions to receive, by a computing device, secondary sensor data from a secondary sensor for the second device; program instructions to determine, by a computing device, an anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device based on the determined baseline for the first device; and program instructions to compare, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device.
10. The computer program product as in claim 9, further comprising: program instructions to compare, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and program instructions to suppress, by the computing device, the primary sensor in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does not support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, further comprising: program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification indicating no anomaly was found for the second device.
12. The computer program product as in claim 9, further comprising: program instructions to compare, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
13. The computer program product as in claim 9, further comprising: program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that no anomaly was detected in the secondary sensor data for the second device.
14. The computer program product as in claim 9, wherein the comparing, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device further comprises: creating, by the computing device, an anomaly dependency graph, wherein the anomaly dependency graph captures the relationships between the anomaly in the primary sensor data and the secondary sensor data.
15. A computer system for multi-modal anomaly detection, the system comprising: one or more computer processors, one or more computer-readable storage media, and program instructions stored on one or more of the computer-readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a first device; program instructions to determine, by the computing device, a baseline from the primary sensor data for the first device program instructions to receive, by a computing device, primary sensor data from a primary sensor for a second device; program instructions to receive, by a computing device, secondary sensor data from a secondary sensor for the second device; program instructions to determine, by a computing device, an anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device based on the determined baseline for the first device; and program instructions to compare, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device.
16. The computer system as in claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to compare, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and program instructions to suppress, by the computing device, the primary sensor in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does not support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
17. The computer system of claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification indicating no anomaly was found for the second device.
18. The computer system as in claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to compare, by the computing device, in response to detecting an anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device the anomaly in the primary sensor data of the second device to the anomaly in the secondary sensor data for the second device; and program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that the anomaly in the secondary sensor data does support the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device.
19. The computer system as in claim 15, further comprising: program instructions to generate, by the computing device, a notification that an anomaly was found in the second device in response to determining that no anomaly was detected in the secondary sensor data for the second device.
20. The computer system as in claim 15, wherein the comparing, by a computing device, the anomaly in the primary sensor data for the second device to the received secondary sensor data for the second device further comprises: creating, by the computing device, an anomaly dependency graph, wherein the anomaly dependency graph captures the relationships between the anomaly in the primary sensor data and the secondary sensor data.
</claims>
</document>
