<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/44,H04N5/57
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUCUKGOZ, MEHMET
NEAL, IAN GLEN
POLLOCK, HOLLY HELENE
VERTIDO, RAFAEL VINCENT PRIETO
WOZNIAK, MATTHEW RICHARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68966005
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User-specific video frame brightness filter
</title>

<abstract>
A computing device is configured to selectively adjust a brightness of a video based on a user-specific response to light. A user-specific light response parameter is determined. For each frame of a plurality of frames included in the video, (1) a brightness characterization for the frame is determined, (2) one or more additional brightness characterizations for one or more additional frames of the plurality of frames is determined, (3) a filter for the frame is generated based on the brightness characterization, the one or more additional brightness characterizations, and the user-specific light response parameter, (4) the filter is applied to the frame to generate a filtered frame, and (5) the filtered frame is output by the computing device. The filter is configured such that if a high brightness condition is present in the frame, then the high brightness condition is mitigated or removed from the filtered frame.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a data storage device holding instructions executable by the processor to: determine a user-specific light response parameter corresponding to a user's specific response to light being directed to the user's eye; for each frame of a plurality of frames included in a video: determine a brightness characterization for at least a region of interest in the frame; determine one or more additional brightness characterizations for at least the region of interest in one or more additional frames of the plurality of frames; generate a filter for the frame based on the brightness characterization, the one or more additional brightness characterizations, and the user-specific light response parameter; apply the filter to at least the region of interest in the frame to generate a filtered frame, wherein the filter is configured such that if a high brightness condition is present in the region of interest in the frame, then the filter reduces a change in brightness in the region of interest over a subsequent sequence of filtered frames in the video; and output the filtered frame.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the user-specific light response parameter is a user-specific pupil response to light being directed to the user's eye.
3. The computing device of claim 2, wherein the user-specific pupil response to light is a pupil dilation rate.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on explicit user input indicating the user's specific response to light being directed to the user's eye.
5. The computing device, of claim 4, further comprising a display, and wherein the data storage device holds instructions executable by the processor to: present, via the display, a plurality of sample videos, each sample video having a different brightness and/or a different velocity of change in brightness across a plurality of frames of the sample video; and receive user input indicating a user-preferred sample video selected from the plurality of sample videos, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the user-preferred sample video.
6. The computing device, of claim 4, further comprising a display, and wherein the data storage device holds instructions executable by the processor to: present, via the display, a graphical user interface including a sample video and a brightness adjustment user interface element configured to adjust a velocity of change in brightness across a plurality of frames of the sample video; and receive user input that adjusts the brightness adjustment user interface element to a desired velocity of change in brightness across the plurality of frames of the sample video, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the desired velocity of change in brightness across the plurality of frames of the sample video.
7. The computing device, of claim 1, further comprising a camera, and wherein the data storage device holds instructions executable by the processor to: acquire, via the camera, a plurality of images of a user's eye while light is being directed to the user's eye; and determine a pupil response of the user's eye to light being directed to the user's eye based on the plurality of images, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the pupil response of the user's eye light being directed to the user's eye.
8. The computing device, of claim 1, further comprising a display and a camera, and wherein the data storage device holds instructions executable by the processor to: acquire, via the camera, one or more images of a user face during presentation of video content via the display; and identify a user-specific brightness reaction to the video content based on the one or more images, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the user-specific brightness reaction.
9. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined on a repeated basis so as to dynamically update generation of the filter.
10. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the filter includes an infinite impulse response filter characterized by a difference equation, and wherein terms of the difference equation are determined based on the brightness characterization, the one or more additional brightness characterizations, and the user-specific light response parameter.
11. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the high brightness condition is a condition in which each of a plurality of pixels in the region of interest exceeding a threshold number of pixels has a respective brightness exceeding a threshold brightness.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the threshold brightness is a lower of a static threshold brightness and a dynamic threshold brightness.
13. The computing device of claim 12, wherein the filter is configured to apply a sigmoid function having an upper bound corresponding to the threshold brightness.
14. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the region of interest is one of a plurality of regions included in the frame, wherein a different filter is generated and applied to each region of the plurality of regions to generate the filtered frame.
15. A method for adjusting brightness of a video with a computing device, the method comprising: determining a user-specific light response parameter corresponding to a user's specific response to light being directed to the user's eye; for each frame of a plurality of frames included in the video: determining a brightness characterization for at least a region of interest in the frame; determining one or more additional brightness characterizations for at least the region of interest in one or more additional frames of the plurality of frames; generating a filter for the frame based on the brightness characterization, the one or more additional brightness characterizations, and the user-specific light response parameter; applying the filter to at least the region of interest in the frame to generate a filtered frame, wherein the filter is configured such that if a high brightness condition is present in the region of interest in the frame, then the filter reduces a change in brightness in the region of interest over a subsequent sequence of filtered frames in the video; and outputting the filtered frame.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: presenting, via a display of the computing device, a plurality of sample videos, each sample video having a different brightness and/or a different velocity of change in brightness across a plurality of frames of the sample video; and receiving user input indicating a user-preferred sample video selected from the plurality of sample video, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the user-preferred sample video.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: presenting, via a display of the computing device, a graphical user interface including a sample video and a brightness adjustment user interface element configured to adjust a velocity of change in brightness across a plurality of frames of the sample video; and receiving user input that adjusts the brightness adjustment user interface element to a desired velocity of change in brightness across the plurality of frames of the sample video, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the desired velocity of change in brightness across the plurality of frames of the sample video.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: acquiring, via a camera of the computing device, a plurality of images of a user's eye while light is being directed to the user's eye; and determining a pupil response of the user's eye to light being directed to the user's eye based on the plurality of images, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the pupil response of the user's eye light being directed to the user's eye.
19. The method of claim 15, further comprising: acquiring, via the camera, one or more images of a user face during presentation of video content via the display; and identifying a user-specific brightness reaction to the video content based on the one or more images, and wherein the user-specific light response parameter is determined based on the user-specific brightness reaction.
20. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a data storage device holding instructions executable by the processor to: determine a user-specific light response parameter corresponding to a user's specific response to light being directed to the user's eye; for each frame of a plurality of frames included in a video: determine a brightness characterization for at least a region of interest in the frame; determine one or more additional brightness characterizations for at least the region of interest for at least a preceding frame of the plurality of frames; generate a filter for the frame based on the brightness characterization, the one or more additional brightness characterizations, and the user-specific light response parameter; apply the filter to at least the region of interest in the frame to generate a filtered frame, wherein the filter is configured such that if a high brightness condition is present in the region of interest in the frame, then the high brightness condition is not present in the region of interest in the filtered frame, and wherein the high brightness condition includes an increase in an average brightness of the region of interest relative to a preceding brightness of the region of interest in the preceding frame exceeding a brightness change threshold; and output the filtered frame.
</claims>
</document>
