<document>

<filing_date>
2020-06-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L15/22,H04M3/22,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIESLAK, KEVIN R.
MAIORANA, NICK A.
GORLESKY, DAVID
CANTOR, JUDY
ERNST, JEREMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71611852
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fraud detection in contact centers using deep learning model
</title>

<abstract>
An example method is described. The method includes receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a call into an interactive voice response (IVR) system from a user device and determining, by the computing system and based on the data, a set of actions performed by the user device within the IVR system and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the call. Additionally, the method includes converting, by the computing system, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary established based on training data, determining, by the computing system, an activity pattern during the call based on the sequence of code pairs; and calculating, by the computing system, a probability that the call is fraudulent based on the activity pattern during the call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors in communication with the memory and configured to: determine, in each call of a plurality of calls included in a set of training data, a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by one or more interactive voice response (IVR) systems during a respective call of the plurality of calls, wherein the plurality of calls included in the set of training data includes a group of fraudulent calls and a group of non-fraudulent calls; convert, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary; identify, based on the sequence of code pairs for each call of the plurality of calls, a plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data; determine an activity pattern during an incoming call into an IVR system; and calculate, based on the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data and based on the activity pattern during the incoming call, a probability that the incoming call is fraudulent.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to generate the dictionary based on the set of training data.
3. The computing device of claim 2, wherein to generate the dictionary, the one or more processors are further configured to: create, for each unique action in each set of actions corresponding to each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, an entry in the dictionary to map the action to an action code; and create, for each unique result in each set of results corresponding to each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, an entry in the dictionary to map the result to a result code.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model including the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data, and wherein by identifying the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data, the one or more processors are configured to train the deep learning model.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to retrain the deep learning model based on an updated set of training data including an updated group of fraudulent calls and an updated group of non-fraudulent calls.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive data indicative of the incoming call into the IVR system from a user device; determine, based on the data indicative of the incoming call, a set of actions performed by the user device within the IVR system and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the incoming call; convert the set of actions performed during the incoming call and the corresponding set of results performed by the incoming call into a sequence of code pairs using the dictionary, wherein each code pair of the sequence of code pairs includes an action code corresponding to an action of the set of actions performed during the incoming call and a result code corresponding to a respective result of the set of results performed during the incoming call; and determine the activity pattern during the incoming call based on the sequence of code pairs.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein to convert, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into the sequence of code pairs, the one or more processors are configured to: identify, for each call of the plurality of calls included in the training data, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents unique account information; and assign a result code to represent the species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized account result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the account information.
8. The computing system of claim 1 wherein to convert, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into the sequence of code pairs, the one or more processors are configured to: identify, for each call of the plurality of calls included in the training data, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents a unique amount of currency associated with an action being performed by a user device; and assign a result code to represent the species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized balance result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the amount of currency associated with the action being performed.
9. The computing device of claim 1, wherein to determine the activity pattern, the one or more processors are configured to identify, based on the sequence of code pairs, one or more known patterns associated with fraudulent calls, and wherein to calculate the probability that the call is fraudulent, the one or more processors are configured to determine a level of similarity between the sequence of code pairs and the known patterns.
10. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the incoming call is fraudulent if the probability is above a threshold value; and alert a fraud management system that the incoming call is fraudulent in response to determining that the incoming call is fraudulent.
11. A method comprising: determining, by one or more processors in each call of a plurality of calls included in a set of training data, a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by one or more interactive voice response (IVR) systems during a respective call of the plurality of calls, wherein the plurality of calls included in the set of training data includes a group of fraudulent calls and a group of non-fraudulent calls; converting, by the one or more processors for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary; identifying, by the one or more processors based on the sequence of code pairs for each call of the plurality of calls, a plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data; determining, by the one or more processors, an activity pattern during an incoming call into an IVR system; and calculating, by the one or more processors based on the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data and based on the activity pattern during the incoming call, a probability that the incoming call is fraudulent.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises generating, by the one or more processors, the dictionary based on the set of data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein generating the dictionary comprises: creating, by the one or more processors for each unique action in each set of actions corresponding to each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, an entry in the dictionary to map the action to an action code; and creating, by the one or more processors for each unique result in each set of results corresponding to each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, an entry in the dictionary to map the result to a result code.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein a deep learning model includes the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data, and wherein identifying the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data comprises training, by the one or more processors, the deep learning model.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising retraining the deep learning model based on an updated set of training data including an updated group of fraudulent calls and an updated group of non-fraudulent calls.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, data indicative of the incoming call into the IVR system from a user device; determining, by the one or more processors based on the data indicative of the incoming call, a set of actions performed by the user device within the IVR system and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the incoming call; and converting, by the one or more processors, the set of actions performed during the incoming call and the corresponding set of results performed by the incoming call into a sequence of code pairs using the dictionary, wherein each code pair of the sequence of code pairs includes an action code corresponding to an action of the set of actions performed during the incoming call and a result code corresponding to a respective result of the set of results performed during the incoming call, wherein determining the activity pattern during the incoming call further comprises determining the activity pattern during the incoming call based on the sequence of code pairs.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein converting, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into the sequence of code pairs comprises: identifying, for each call of the plurality of calls included in the training data, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents unique account information; and assigning a result code to represent the species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized account result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the account information.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the activity pattern comprises identifying, based on the sequence of code pairs, one or more known patterns associated with fraudulent calls, and wherein calculating the probability that the call is fraudulent comprises determining a level of similarity between the sequence of code pairs and the known patterns.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining that the incoming call is fraudulent if the probability is above a threshold value; and alerting a fraud management system that the incoming call is fraudulent in response to determining that the incoming call is fraudulent.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to: determine, in each call of a plurality of calls included in a set of training data, a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by one or more interactive voice response (IVR) systems during a respective call of the plurality of calls, wherein the plurality of calls included in the set of training data includes a group of fraudulent calls and a group of non-fraudulent calls; convert, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary; identify, based on the sequence of code pairs for each call of the plurality of calls, a plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data; determine an activity pattern during an incoming call into an IVR system; and calculate, based on the plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls included in the set of training data and based on the activity pattern during the incoming call, a probability that the incoming call is fraudulent.
</claims>
</document>
