<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,H04M1/02,H04N5/235
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, JIDONG
XU WEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72664028
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image recognition and authentication
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations of the present specification disclose image recognition methods, apparatuses, and devices, and authentication methods, apparatuses, and devices. A solution includes the following: obtaining a target image of a target object, where before the target image is obtained, a recognition identifier is mapped onto the target object, and where the recognition identifier is used to form a corresponding recognition feature in the target image; and determining an attribute of the target object corresponding to the target image based on a predetermined mapping relationship and the recognition feature, where the mapping relationship includes a corresponding relationship between the recognition feature and the attribute of the target object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining a target image of a target object, wherein the target image comprises a recognition feature formed from a recognition identifier mapped onto the target object, wherein the recognition identifier comprises an optical image projected onto the target object; determining, from the target image, an attribute resulting from the projection of the optical image onto the target object, wherein a the attribute is mapped to the recognition feature; and authenticating the target object based on a determining result, wherein the determining result comprises the attribute and extracted information from the target object.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising detecting the target object before obtaining the target image, wherein detecting the target object comprises extracting a position of the target object in reference to an acquisition field of an image capture device, and wherein using the position of the target object to obtain the target image of the target object.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein detecting the target object further comprises detecting the recognition identifier.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the method further comprises outputting a detection indicator based on detecting the target object.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the detection indicator comprises a voice broadcast or a light indicator.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein obtaining the target image occurs within a predetermined acquisition time upon detection of a qualified target object.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the recognition identifier comprises a pattern, and wherein the pattern comprises a positioning feature that maps the pattern onto the target object.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the target image comprises obtaining the target image by an image detector of a mobile electronic communication device, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises: presenting the recognition identifier on a display of the mobile electronic communication device, and mapping the recognition identifier on the display onto the target object, wherein the image detector and the display are located in front of a same side of the target object.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 8, wherein the mobile electronic communication device comprises a smartphone, the display comprises a screen of the smartphone, and the image detector comprises a front-facing camera of the smartphone, wherein obtaining the target image comprises capturing the target image with the front-facing camera, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises using illumination from the screen of the smartphone to map the recognition identifier displayed on the screen of the smartphone onto the target object.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the recognition feature comprises any one or more of a color feature, a texture feature, a shape feature, or a spatial relationship feature.
11. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining a target image of a target object, wherein the target image comprises a recognition feature formed from a recognition identifier mapped onto the target object, wherein the recognition identifier comprises an optical image projected onto the target object; determining, from the target image, an attribute resulting from the projection of the optical image onto the target object, wherein a the attribute is mapped to the recognition feature; and authenticating the target object based on a determining result, wherein the determining result comprises the attribute and extracted information from the target object.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, further comprising detecting the target object before obtaining the target image, wherein detecting the target object comprises extracting a position of the target object in reference to an acquisition field of an image capture device, and wherein using the position of the target object to obtain the target image of the target object.
13. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein detecting the target object further comprises detecting the recognition identifier.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the operations further comprise outputting a detection indicator based on detecting the target object.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the detection indicator comprises a voice broadcast or a light indicator.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein obtaining the target image occurs within a predetermined acquisition time upon detection of a qualified target object.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the recognition identifier comprises a pattern, and wherein the pattern comprises a positioning feature that maps the pattern onto the target object.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein obtaining the target image comprises obtaining the target image by an image detector of a mobile electronic communication device, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises: presenting the recognition identifier on a display of the mobile electronic communication device, and mapping the recognition identifier on the display onto the target object, wherein the image detector and the display are located in front of a same side of the target object.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the mobile electronic communication device comprises a smartphone, the display comprises a screen of the smartphone, and the image detector comprises a front-facing camera of the smartphone, wherein obtaining the target image comprises capturing the target image with the front-facing camera, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises using illumination from the screen of the smartphone to map the recognition identifier displayed on the screen of the smartphone onto the target object.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 11, wherein the recognition feature comprises any one or more of a color feature, a texture feature, a shape feature, or a spatial relationship feature.
21. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing one or more instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, perform one or more operations comprising: obtaining a target image of a target object, wherein the target image comprises a recognition feature formed from a recognition identifier mapped onto the target object, wherein the recognition identifier comprises an optical image projected onto the target object; determining, from the target image, an attribute resulting from the projection of the optical image onto the target object, wherein a the attribute is mapped to the recognition feature; and authenticating the target object based on a determining result, wherein the determining result comprises the attribute and extracted information from the target object.
22. The computer-implemented system of claim 21, further comprising detecting the target object before obtaining the target image, wherein detecting the target object comprises extracting a position of the target object in reference to an acquisition field of an image capture device, and wherein using the position of the target object to obtain the target image of the target object.
23. The computer-implemented system of claim 22, wherein detecting the target object further comprises detecting the recognition identifier.
24. The computer-implemented system of claim 22, wherein the operations further comprise outputting a detection indicator based on detecting the target object.
25. The computer-implemented system of claim 24, wherein the detection indicator comprises a voice broadcast or a light indicator.
26. The computer-implemented system of claim 22, wherein obtaining the target image occurs within a predetermined acquisition time upon detection of a qualified target object.
27. The computer-implemented system of claim 21, wherein the recognition identifier comprises a pattern, and wherein the pattern comprises a positioning feature that maps the pattern onto the target object.
28. The computer-implemented system of claim 21, wherein obtaining the target image comprises obtaining the target image by an image detector of a mobile electronic communication device, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises: presenting the recognition identifier on a display of the mobile electronic communication device, and mapping the recognition identifier on the display onto the target object, wherein the image detector and the display are located in front of a same side of the target object.
29. The computer-implemented system of claim 28, wherein the mobile electronic communication device comprises a smartphone, the display comprises a screen of the smartphone, and the image detector comprises a front-facing camera of the smartphone, wherein obtaining the target image comprises capturing the target image with the front-facing camera, and wherein mapping the recognition identifier onto the target object comprises using illumination from the screen of the smartphone to map the recognition identifier displayed on the screen of the smartphone onto the target object.
30. The computer-implemented system of claim 21, wherein the recognition feature comprises any one or more of a color feature, a texture feature, a shape feature, or a spatial relationship feature.
</claims>
</document>
