<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/32,G06T3/40,G06T5/00,G06T7/45,G06T7/55
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PANKANTI, SHARATHCHANDRA U.
LU, SIYUAN
ALBRECHT, CONRAD M.
HAMANN, HENDRIK F.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66097038
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhancing observation resolution using continuous learning
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method to enhance observation resolution using continuous learning include obtaining a first image of a surface area from a first satellite, and obtaining a second image of the surface area from a second satellite. The first image has a lower spatial resolution than the second image, and temporal resolution of the first images obtained by the first satellite is higher than temporal resolution of the second images obtained by the second satellite. The method also includes determining a convolution matrix A or training a neural network, obtaining additional one or more of the first images prior to obtaining an additional one of the second images, and generating a new image from each of the one or more of the first images using the convolution matrix A or the neural network. The new image has a higher spatial resolution than the one or more of the first images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of enhancing observation resolution using continuous learning, the method comprising: obtaining, using a processor, a first spatial resolution image of a surface area from a first satellite; obtaining, using the processor, a second spatial resolution image of the surface area from a second satellite, wherein the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image are obtained within a specified time period of each other, the first spatial resolution image has a lower spatial resolution than the second spatial resolution image, and temporal resolution of the first spatial resolution images obtained by the first satellite is higher than temporal resolution of the second spatial resolution images obtained by the second satellite; determining, using the processor, training a neural network using the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image; obtaining, by the processor, additional one or more of the first spatial resolution images prior to obtaining an additional one of the second spatial resolution images; and generating, using the processor, a new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images using the convolution matrix A or the neural network, wherein the new image corresponds with each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, the new image has a higher spatial resolution than the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, and the training the neural network includes training a first neural network to generate an estimate of the first spatial resolution image from the second spatial resolution image and training a second neural network to generate the new image from the estimate of the first spatial resolution image.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising refining the neural network using the additional one of the second spatial resolution images.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the training the neural network includes training the neural network to generate one of the new images from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images based on using the second spatial resolution image during the training.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising including weather information as an input to the second neural network, wherein the generating the new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images includes using each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images and corresponding weather information as the input to the second neural network.
5. A system to enhance observation resolution using continuous learning, the system comprising: an input interface configured to obtain a first spatial resolution image of a surface area from a first satellite and a second spatial resolution image of the surface area from a second satellite, wherein the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image are obtained within a specified time period of each other, the first spatial resolution image has a lower spatial resolution than the second spatial resolution image, and temporal resolution of the first spatial resolution images obtained by the first satellite is higher than temporal resolution of the second spatial resolution images obtained by the second satellite; and a processor configured to train a neural network using the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image, obtain additional one or more of the first spatial resolution images prior to obtaining an additional one of the second spatial resolution images, and generate a new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images using the convolution matrix A or the neural network, wherein the new image corresponds with each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, the new image has a higher spatial resolution than the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, and the processor trains the neural network based on training a first neural network to generate an estimate of the first spatial resolution image from the second spatial resolution image and training a second neural network to generate the new image from the estimate of the first spatial resolution image.
6. The system according to claim 5, wherein the processor refines the neural network using the additional one of the second spatial resolution images.
7. The system according to claim 5, wherein the processor trains the neural network based on training the neural network to generate one of the new images from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images based on using the second spatial resolution image during the training.
8. The system according to claim 5, wherein the processor includes weather information as an input to the second neural network, wherein the processor generates the new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images based on using each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images and corresponding weather information as the input to the second neural network.
9. A computer program product for enhancing observation resolution using continuous learning, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to perform a method comprising: obtaining a first spatial resolution image of a surface area from a first satellite; obtaining a second spatial resolution image of the surface area from a second satellite, wherein the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image are obtained within a specified time period of each other, the first spatial resolution image has a lower spatial resolution than the second spatial resolution image, and temporal resolution of the first spatial resolution images obtained by the first satellite is higher than temporal resolution of the second spatial resolution images obtained by the second satellite; training a neural network using the first spatial resolution image and the second spatial resolution image; obtaining additional one or more of the first spatial resolution images prior to obtaining an additional one of the second spatial resolution images; and generating a new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images using the convolution matrix A or the neural network, wherein the new image corresponds with each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, the new image has a higher spatial resolution than the one or more of the first spatial resolution images, and the training the neural network includes training a first neural network to generate an estimate of the first spatial resolution image from the second spatial resolution image and training a second neural network to generate the new image from the estimate of the first spatial resolution image.
10. The computer program product according to claim 9, further comprising refining the neural network using the additional one of the second spatial resolution images.
11. The computer program product according to claim 9, wherein the training the neural network includes training the neural network to generate one of the new images from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images based on using the second spatial resolution image during the training.
12. The computer program product according to claim 9, wherein the training the second neural network includes adding weather information as an input to the second neural network, and the generating the new image from each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images includes using each of the one or more of the first spatial resolution images and corresponding weather information as the input to the second neural network.
</claims>
</document>
