<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/30,G06F15/173,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HEISIG, STEPHEN J.
ABRAMI, AVNER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69055229
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Continuous time alignment of a collection of independent sensors
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for continuous time alignment of a collection of independent sensors monitoring a common entity by one or more processors. One or more activity events associated with a monitored entity may be identified in the time series sensor data collected from a plurality of sensors. The one or more activity events may be dynamically characterized in the time series sensor data using a machine learning operation. The time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors may be time-aligned by aligning the one or more activity events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for continuous time alignment of time series data from a collection of independent sensors by one or more processors, comprising: identifying one or more activity events, associated with a monitored entity, in the time series sensor data collected from a plurality of sensors; dynamically characterizing the one or more activity events in the time series sensor data using a machine learning operation; and time-aligning time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors by aligning the one or more activity events such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors is time-aligned utilizing only output of the machine learning operation characterizing the one or more activity events and irrespective of raw sensor data contained in the time series sensor data, wherein the time series data streams are each independent of one another such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors are time-aligned notwithstanding whether any of the plurality of sensors had any network communication during a collection of the time series sensor data of the monitored entity.
2. The method of claim 1, further including training a machine learning classifier for each of the plurality of sensor for predicting the one or more activity events as the time series data.
3. The method of claim 1, further including using the time series sensor data in a machine learning classifier to predict the one or more activity events as the time series data.
4. The method of claim 1, further including defining a start time and an end time of each of one or more activity events predicted as the time series data from a machine learning classifier.
5. The method of claim 1, further including transforming the time series sensor data using a machine learning classifier to a continuous time series of probability activations according to a probability of each of the one or more activity events occurring in a selected time window.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors further includes selecting a reference sensor of the plurality of sensors for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors.
7. The method of claim 6, further including: determining a time lag between similar probability activities representing the one or more activity events in relation to the reference sensor; and shifting a timestamp of each of the plurality of sensors according to the determined time lag for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors in relation to the reference sensor.
8. A system for continuous time alignment of time series data from a collection of independent sensors, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: identify one or more activity events, associated with a monitored entity, in the time series sensor data collected from a plurality of sensors; dynamically characterize the one or more activity events in the time series sensor data using a machine learning operation; and time-align time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors by aligning the one or more activity events such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors is time-aligned utilizing only output of the machine learning operation characterizing the one or more activity events and irrespective of raw sensor data contained in the time series sensor data, wherein the time series data streams are each independent of one another such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors are time-aligned notwithstanding whether any of the plurality of sensors had any network communication during a collection of the time series sensor data of the monitored entity.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further train a machine learning classifier for each of the plurality of sensor for predicting the one or more activity events as the time series data.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further use the time series sensor data in a machine learning classifier to predict the one or more activity events as the time series data.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further define a start time and an end time of each of one or more activity events predicted as the time series data from a machine learning classifier.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further transform the time series sensor data using a machine learning classifier to a continuous time series of probability activations according to a probability of each of the one or more activity events occurring in a selected time window.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein, pursuant to time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors, the executable instructions further select a reference sensor of the plurality of sensors for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the executable instructions further: determine a time lag between similar probability activities representing the one or more activity events in relation to the reference sensor; and shift a timestamp of each of the plurality of sensors according to the determined time lag for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors in relation to the reference sensor.
15. A computer program product for continuous time alignment by one or more processors, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that identifies one or more activity events, associated with a monitored entity, in the time series sensor data collected from a plurality of sensors; an executable portion that dynamically characterizes the one or more activity events in the time series sensor data using a machine learning operation; and an executable portion that time-aligns time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors by aligning the one or more activity events such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors is time-aligned utilizing only output of the machine learning operation characterizing the one or more activity events and irrespective of raw sensor data contained in the time series sensor data, wherein the time series data streams are each independent of one another such that the time series data streams from each of the plurality of sensors are time-aligned notwithstanding whether any of the plurality of sensors had any network communication during a collection of the time series sensor data of the monitored entity.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that: trains a machine learning classifier for each of the plurality of sensor for predicting the one or more activity events as the time series data; and uses the sensor data in the machine learning classifier to predict the one or more activity events as the time series data.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that defines a start time and an end time of each of one or more activity events predicted as time series data from a machine learning classifier.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, further including an executable portion that transforms the time series sensor data using a machine learning classifier to a continuous time series of probability activations according to a probability of each of the one or more activity events occurring in a selected time window.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein, pursuant to time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors, further including an executable portion that selects a reference sensor of the plurality of sensors for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors.
20. The computer program product of claim 19, further including an executable portion that: determines a time lag between similar probability activities representing the one or more activity events in relation to the reference sensor; and shifts a timestamp of each of the plurality of sensors according to the determined time lag for time-aligning each of the plurality of sensors in relation to the reference sensor.
</claims>
</document>
