<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-07-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A42B3/04,A61B5/00,A61B5/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
THE CLEVELAND CLINIC FOUNDATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
BENZEL, EDWARD, C.
MIELE, VINCENT J.
BARTSCH, ADAM J.
GILBERTSON, LARS G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
45470107
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection and characterization of head impacts
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for determining an acceleration at a location of interest within one of a user's head and neck. At least one of linear acceleration data, angular acceleration data, angular velocity data, and orientation data is produced using at least one sensing device substantially rigidly attached to an ambient-accessible surface of the user's head. The location of interest is represented relative to a position of the at least one sensing device as a time-varying function. An acceleration at the location of interest is calculated as a function of the data produced at the sensing device and the time-varying function representing the location of interest. The calculated acceleration at the location of interest is provided to at least one of the user and an observer in a human-perceptible form.
</abstract>

<claims>
Having described the invention, the following is claimed:
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing executable instructions executable by an associated processor to perform a method for determining an acceleration at a location of interest within one of a user's head and neck, comprising: receiving, at a processor, sensor data including one of linear acceleration data, angular acceleration data, angular velocity data, and orientation data, the sensor data being received using a sensor assembly remote from the location of interest and mounted on or within one of a mouthpiece, an instrument mounted in the auditory canal, an instrument mounted in the nasal canal, and an instrument inserted into eyewear; accessing registration data relating to a position of the sensor assembly relative to a position of the location of interest; calculating an acceleration at the location of interest using a time varying function based on the sensor data, the time-varying function representing the location of interest as a linear combination of the linear acceleration and twice a cross-product of the angular velocity with a relative velocity between the sensor position and the location of interest; and providing the acceleration to one of the user and an observer at an associated display.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the sensor assembly is contained entirely within one of a mouth guard and a lip guard worn by the user, and calculating the acceleration at the location of interest comprises calculating the acceleration at the location of interest solely as a function of the data produced at the sensor assembly and the time-varying function representing the location of interest.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the location of interest is a center of gravity of the head of the user.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the location of interest is a location within one of a frontal lobe, parietal lobe, temporal lobe, occipital lobe, cerebellum, medulla oblongata, pons, thalamus, gyros, fomix, amygdyla, hippocampus, cranium, facial bones, maxilla, mandible, cerebrospinal fluid, occipito-cervical junction, cervical spine, vertebral bodies, spinal cord, spinal nerves, spinal vessels, basal ganglia, peri-vascular spaces, septum, white-gray matter junctions, bridging veins, corpus callosum, fissure, cavity sinus, meninges, falx, dura, arachnoid, and pia matter of the user.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising determining one of a Gadd Severity Index, a von Mises stress, and a Head Injury Criterion from the calculated acceleration.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising calculating one of an impact force, a strain rate, and a loading rate at the location of interest from the calculated acceleration.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the calculated acceleration is an angular acceleration, and further comprising calculating one of an angular jerk at the location of interest and an angular momentum of the user's head from the calculated acceleration.
8. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising calculating one of a Generalized Acceleration Model for Brain Injury Threshold, a relative motion damage measure, a dilatational damage measure, and a neck injury criterion from the calculated acceleration.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising calculating one of a Head Impact Power parameter, a weighted principle component score, a strain energy, and a cumulative strain damage measure from the calculated acceleration.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, further comprising calculating one of a peak pressure, a principal strain, a sheer stress, and a product of a strain and a strain rate from the calculated acceleration.
11. A system for characterizing an impact to a user comprising: a sensor assembly configured to measure a linear acceleration and an angular velocity at a sensor position, the sensor assembly being mounted on or within one of a mouthpiece, an instrument mounted in the auditory canal, an instrument mounted in the nasal canal, and an instrument inserted into eyewear; a data transform component operatively connected to the sensor assembly and configured to represent a location of interest in one of the head and the neck of the user relative to the sensor position as a time-varying function, in which a distance between the location of interest and the sensor position can vary with time, and to calculate an acceleration at the location of interest as a linear combination of the linear acceleration and a cross-product of the angular velocity with a relative velocity between the sensor position and the location of interest; registration data accessible by the data transform component and establishing a relative position of the sensor assembly and the location of interest; and a system interface configured to provide the calculated acceleration at the location of interest to a user at an associated display.
12. The system of claim 11, the sensor assembly comprising a plurality of linear accelerometers implemented as microelectromechanical (MEMS) systems.
13. The system of claim 11, the sensor assembly comprising a plurality of angular accelerometers implemented as MEMS systems.
14. The system of claim 11, the sensor assembly comprising a plurality of angular velocity sensors implemented as MEMS systems.
15. The system of claim 11, the sensor assembly comprising a plurality of angular position sensors implemented as MEMS systems.
16. The system of claim 11, the sensor assembly comprising a plurality and combination of linear accelerometers, angular accelerometers, angular velocity sensors and angular position sensors implemented as MEMS systems.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the sensor assembly is implemented entirely in one of a mouth guard and a lip guard worn by the user, and the data transform component is configured to calculate the acceleration at the location of interest solely as a function of the data measured at the sensor assembly and the time-varying function representing the location of interest.
18. The system of claim 17, the one of the mouth guard and the lip guard being formed from multiple layers of material with the sensor assembly being mounted in one layer in an elongate pattern.
19. The system of claim 17, the one of the mouth guard and the lip guard comprising a wireless transmitter to provide the measured linear acceleration and angular velocity to the data transform component.
20. The system of claim 17, the one of the mouth guard and the lip guard comprising an on-board wired transmitter with data storage to provide the measured linear acceleration and angular velocity to the data transform component.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the data transform component is mounted on a headpiece worn by the user, and the one of the mouth guard and the lip guard is connected to the data transform component via a wired connection.
22. The system of claim 11, the data transform component being configured to represent the location of interest relative to the sensor assembly as a time-varying function according to a model of the movement of a brain when exposed to various kinematics and kinetics.
23. The system of claim 11, the system interface comprising a remote warning device that alerts the user when the calculated acceleration exceeds a threshold value.
24. The system of claim 11, the system interface comprising an on-board warning device that alerts the user when the calculated acceleration exceeds a threshold value.
25. The system of claim 11, the data transform component being configured to select the time-varying function from one of a plurality of available time-varying functions representing the location of interest according to the measured linear acceleration and angular velocity.
26. A system for characterizing an impact to a user comprising: a sensor assembly configured to measure motion data at a sensor position, the sensor assembly being mounted on or within one of a mouthpiece, an instrument mounted in the auditory canal, an instrument mounted in the nasal canal, and an instrument inserted into eyewear; a data transform component operatively connected to the sensor assembly and configured to represent a location of interest in one of the head and the neck of the user relative to the sensor position as a time-varying function and to calculate an acceleration at the location of interest as a linear combination of a linear acceleration at the sensor position and a cross-product of angular acceleration with a relative position between the sensor position and the location of interest; registration data accessible by the data transform component and establishing a relative position of the sensor assembly and the location of interest; and a system interface configured to provide the calculated acceleration at the location of interest to a user at an associated display.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the acceleration at the location of interest further comprises a linear combination of a cross-product of angular velocity with a quantity comprising a cross-product of angular velocity with the relative position between the sensor position and the location of interest.
</claims>
</document>
