<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06K9/00,G10L13/00,G10L13/08,G10L15/08,G10L15/22,G10L15/30,G10L21/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOKADY, RAN
LEMON, SANDRA
CIUBOTARIU, NICK
DEVARAJ, CHRISTO FRANK
HARDIE, TONY ROY
DALMIA, MANISH KUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61243232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Indicator for voice-based communications
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and devices for outputting indications regarding voice-based interactions are described. A first speech-controlled device detects spoken audio corresponding to recipient information. The first device captures the audio and sends audio data corresponding to the captured audio to a server. The server determines a second speech-controlled device of the recipient and sends a signal to the recipient's second speech-controlled device representing a message is forthcoming. The recipient's second speech-controlled device outputs and indication representing a message is forthcoming.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: at least one processor; and memory including instructions operable to be executed by the at least one processor to configure the system to: receive, from a first speech-controlled device, first input audio data including message content and recipient information; determine a second speech-controlled device associated with the recipient information; send, to the second speech-controlled device, a first signal corresponding to a synchronous communication with the first speech-controlled device; send, to the second speech-controlled device, first output audio data including the message content; receive, from the second speech-controlled device a second signal indicating that speech is detected by the second speech-controlled device; send, to the first speech-controlled device, a third signal indicating that speech is detected by the second speech-controlled device, the third signal causing the first speech-controlled device to, during a first time period, output a first indication representing a reply to the message content is being received by the second speech-controlled device; receive, from the second speech-controlled device, second input audio data including reply message content; and during a second time period after the first time period, send, to the first speech-controlled device, second output audio data including the reply message content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that configure the system to determine the second speech-controlled device comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor configure the system to: access a user profile associated with the first speech-controlled device; and identify the recipient information in the user profile.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that configure the system to determine the second speech-controlled device comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor configure the system to: determine a location of the recipient; and select the second speech-controlled device, from a plurality of devices associated with a recipient profile, based on the second speech-controlled device being proximate to the recipient.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that configure the system to determine the second speech-controlled device comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor configure the system to determine the second speech-controlled device is presently in use.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions that configure the system to determine the second speech-controlled device comprise instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor configure the system to: determine a third speech-controlled device, from a plurality of devices including the second speech-controlled device, is presently in use; and select the second speech-controlled device based on its proximity to the third speech-controlled device.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the first indication is comprised of a color or the color having a motion.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the first indication is output by the first speech-controlled device while the second input audio data is received from the second speech-controlled device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first indication is an audible indication, the audible indication being generated using text-to-speech (TTS) processing.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further comprises instructions operable to be executed by the at least one processor to further configure the system to: select a type of output for the first indication based at least in part on the reply message content.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the memory further comprises instructions operable to be executed by the at least one processor to further configure the system to: select a type of output for the first indication based at least in part on a domain being used to exchange the message content and the reply to the message content.
11. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from a first speech-controlled device, first input audio data including recipient message content and information; determining a second speech-controlled device associated with the recipient information; sending, to the second speech-controlled device, a first signal corresponding to a synchronous communication with the first speech-controlled device; sending, to the second speech-controlled device, first output audio data including the message content; receiving, from the second speech-controlled device a second signal indicating that speech is detected by the second speech-controlled device; sending, to the first speech-controlled device, a third signal indicating that speech is detected by the second speech-controlled device, the third signal causing the first speech-controlled device to, during a first time period, output a first indication representing a reply to the message content is being received by the second speech-controlled device; receiving, from the second speech-controlled device, second input audio data including the reply message content; and during a second time period after the first time period, sending, to the first speech-controlled device, second output audio data including the reply message content.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the second speech-controlled device comprises: accessing a user profile associated with the first speech-controlled device; and identifying the recipient information in the user profile.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the second speech-controlled device comprises: determining a location of the recipient; and selecting the second speech-controlled device, from a plurality of devices associated with a recipient profile, based on the second speech-controlled device being proximate to the recipient.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the second speech-controlled device comprises determining the second speech-controlled device is presently in use.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein determining the second speech-controlled device comprises: determining a third speech-controlled device, from a plurality of devices including the second speech-controlled device, is presently in use; and selecting the second speech-controlled device based on its proximity to the third speech-controlled device.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the first indication is comprised of a color or the color having a motion.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the first indication is output by the first speech-controlled device while the second input audio data is received from the second speech-controlled device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the first indication is an audible indication, the audible indication being generated using text-to-speech (TTS) processing.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: selecting a type of output for the first indication based at least in part on the reply message content.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, further comprising: selecting a type of output for the first indication based at least in part on a domain being used to exchange the message content and the reply to the message content.
</claims>
</document>
