<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-11-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R27/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HANSON, MARK ANDREW
BARTH, ADAM T.
WEMPE, PAUL MICHAEL
RIDENOUR, SAMUEL ALDEN
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANSON, MARK ANDREW
BARTH, ADAM T.
WEMPE, PAUL MICHAEL
RIDENOUR, SAMUEL ALDEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61711613
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Non-contact, capacitive, portable presence sensing
</title>

<abstract>
A movement-sensitive capacitive sensor includes a first conductive element and a second conductive element positioned adjacent to the first conductive element. The sensor also includes a first protective insulator and a second protective insulator sealed to the first protective insulator with the first conductive element and the second conductive element positioned between the first protective insulator and the second protective insulator. The sensor further includes a circuit configured to calculate, over time while a person is occupying the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor and moving while occupying the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor, capacitance values between the first conductive element and the second conductive element. The circuit also is configured to determine an occupancy state of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor based on the calculated capacitance values, determine movement-sensitive measurements based on the calculated capacitance values, and transmit output based on the determined occupancy state and the determined movement-sensitive measurements.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A movement-sensitive capacitive sensor comprising: a first conductive element; a second conductive element positioned adjacent to the first conductive element to define a capacitive structure influenced by a sensed body within close proximity of the first conductive element and the second conductive element; a first protective insulator; a second protective insulator sealed to the first protective insulator with the first conductive element and the second conductive element positioned between the first protective insulator and the second protective insulator; and a circuit connected to the first conductive element and the second conductive element, the circuit being configured to: calculate, over time while a person is occupying the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor and moving while occupying the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor, capacitance values between the first conductive element and the second conductive element, determining an average acquired signal in a current state by averaging, over a number of samples, values of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element; setting an activation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the current state and a value that defines an amount of signal change required for activation; setting a deactivation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the current state and a value that defines an amount of signal change required for deactivation; after setting the activation threshold and the deactivation threshold, monitoring a signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element with respect to the activation threshold and the deactivation threshold; based on the monitoring, determining that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the activation threshold; based on the determination that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the activation threshold, classifying the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor as in an occupied state; and transmit output that indicates that the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor is in an occupied state.
2. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor has a flexible and fabric structure that allows it to be utilized as an external sensor on existing beds and seats.
3. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor has a flexible and fabric structure that allows it to be integrated into a bed or seat construction.
4. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element are patterned to increase sensing sensitivity.
5. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 4, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element have an interlocking comb-tooth conductive element pattern that increases sensitivity to movement on a surface of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor.
6. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 4, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element have a cross-bar array conductive element pattern that enables identification of a two-dimensional position of the person on a surface of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor.
7. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit is configured to determine the occupancy state of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor by detecting occupancy based on calculating a capacitance value that is greater than a threshold and detecting a lack of occupancy based on calculating a capacitance value that is less than the threshold.
8. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit is configured to determine movement-sensitive measurements based on the calculated capacitance values by translating the calculated capacitance values to movement of the person proximal to the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor.
9. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit is further configured to determine the occupancy state of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor by: based on detecting that the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor is in the occupied state, determining an average acquired signal in the occupied state by averaging, over the number of samples, values of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element; resetting the activation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the occupied state and the value that defines the amount of signal change required for activation; resetting the deactivation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the occupied state and the value that defines the amount of signal change required for deactivation; after resetting the activation threshold and the deactivation threshold, monitoring the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element with respect to the reset activation threshold and the reset deactivation threshold; based on the monitoring, determining that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the reset deactivation threshold; and based on the determination that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the reset deactivation threshold, detecting that the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor is in an unoccupied state.
10. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit is further configured to determine the occupancy state of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor by: based on detecting that the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor is in the occupied state, determining an average acquired signal in the occupied state by averaging, over the number of samples, values of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element; resetting the activation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the occupied state and the value that defines the amount of signal change required for activation; resetting the deactivation threshold based on the average acquired signal in the occupied state and the value that defines the amount of signal change required for deactivation; after resetting the activation threshold and the deactivation threshold, monitoring the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element with respect to the reset activation threshold and the reset deactivation threshold; based on the monitoring, determining that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the reset activation threshold; and based on the determination that the signal representative of measured capacitance between the first conductive element and the second conductive element has crossed the reset activation threshold, determining that the prior detection of the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor being in the occupied state was incorrect and that the movement-sensitive capacitive sensor is now in the occupied state.
11. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit comprises a wireless radio configured to transmit the output wirelessly to a remote location.
12. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit includes electronic storage configured to store data based on the determined occupancy state and the determined movement-sensitive measurements and the circuit is configured to transmit the output based on the data stored in the electronic storage.
13. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the circuit is connected to the first conductive element and the second conductive element via conductive attachment points positioned on the first protective insulator.
14. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 13, wherein the conductive attachment points include a first conductive fastener that provides a direct connection to the first conductive element and a second conductive fastener that provides a direct connection to the second conductive element.
15. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the first protective insulator and the second protective insulator include anti-microbial fabrics and surfaces.
16. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the first protective insulator and the second protective insulator include non-slip fabrics and surfaces.
17. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element are separate structures from the first protective insulator and the second protective insulator and the second protective insulator is sealed to the first protective insulator to encase the first conductive element and the second conductive element.
18. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 1, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element are printed on an inner side of the second protective insulator.
19. The movement-sensitive capacitive sensor of claim 18, wherein the first conductive element and the second conductive element comprise conductive ink printed on the inner side of the second protective insulator.
</claims>
</document>
