<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9537,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DEY, ROMIT
Romit Dey
</assignee>

<inventors>
DEY, ROMIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68391924
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Selective online content removal based on activity history
</title>

<abstract>
A computer that selectively removes online content associated with an individual is described. During operation, the computer may perform an enrollment process associated with the individual, where the enrollment process involves receiving credentials for one or more accounts associated with the individual. Then, based at least in part on the credentials, the computer may monitor a subsequent activity history associated with the individual, where the activity history includes online transactions associated with the individual, and where the online transactions are associated with multiple locations and the one or more accounts. When the computer receives information specifying an occurrence of an event (such as death or illness of the individual), the computer may, based at least in part on the monitored activity history, selectively remove the online content associated with the individual and at least some of the locations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer, comprising: an interface circuit configured to communicate with one or more other electronic devices; a processor coupled to the interface circuit; and memory, coupled to the processor, storing program instructions, wherein, when executed by the processor, the program instructions cause the computer to perform one or more operations comprising: performing an enrollment process associated with an individual, wherein the enrollment process involves receiving, via the interface circuit, credentials for multiple accounts associated with the individual, and wherein the accounts are associated with different service providers; monitoring, based at least in part on the credentials, a subsequent activity history associated with the individual, wherein the activity history comprises online transactions associated with the individual, and where the online transactions are associated with multiple locations and the accounts; and when the computer receives, via the interface circuit, information specifying an occurrence of an event associated with health of the individual, selectively removing online content associated with the individual and at least some of the locations based at least in part on the monitored activity history, wherein the online content comprises one or more of: messages associated with a communication account, transaction information associated with a financial account, information associated with a weblog, or activity associated with a social-media account.
2. The computer of claim 1, wherein the enrollment process comprises providing an instruction to download or to install a tracking application that tracks the activity history, and the monitoring comprises the computer receiving, via the interface circuit, information specifying the tracked activity history.
3. The computer of claim 1, wherein the enrollment process comprises installing the tracking application on an electronic device.
4. The computer of claim 1, wherein the enrollment process comprises setting up cloud-based tracking that performs the monitoring of the activity history.
5. The computer of claim 1, wherein the locations comprise locations associated with counterparties in online transactions with the individual.
6. The computer of claim 1, wherein the locations comprise destinations and sources in the online transactions.
7. The computer of claim 1, wherein the event associated with the health of the individual comprises the individual's death.
8. The computer of claim 1, wherein the computer is associated with an entity that is different from the service providers.
9. The computer of claim 1, wherein in response to receiving the information that specifies the occurrence of the event associated with the health of the individual, the one or more operations comprise performing an additional remedial action.
10. The computer of claim 9, wherein the additional remedial action comprises providing a notification of the occurrence of the event associated with the health of the individual to the service providers.
11. The computer of claim 9, wherein the additional remedial action comprises archiving at least some of the online content.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing program instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform one or more operations comprising: performing an enrollment process associated with an individual, wherein the enrollment process involves receiving credentials for multiple accounts associated with the individual, and wherein the accounts are associated with different service providers; monitoring, based at least in part on the credentials, a subsequent activity history associated with the individual, wherein the activity history comprises online transactions associated with the individual, and where the online transactions are associated with multiple locations and the accounts; and selectively removing, based at least in part on the monitored activity history, online content associated with the individual and at least some of the locations after receiving information specifying an occurrence of an event associated with health of the individual, wherein the online content comprises one or more of: messages associated with a communication account, transaction information associated with a financial account, information associated with a weblog, or activity associated with a social-media account.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the enrollment process comprises providing an instruction to download or to install a tracking application that tracks the activity history, and the monitoring comprises receiving information specifying the tracked activity history.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the enrollment process comprises setting up cloud-based tracking that performs the monitoring of the activity history.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the locations comprise locations associated with counterparties in online transactions with the individual.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the locations comprise destinations and sources in the online transactions.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the event associated with the health of the individual comprises the individual's death.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the computer is associated with an entity that is different from the service providers.
19. A method for selectively removing online content, wherein the method comprises: by a computer: performing an enrollment process associated with an individual, wherein the enrollment process involves receiving credentials for multiple accounts associated with the individual, and wherein the accounts are associated with different service providers; monitoring, based at least in part on the credentials, a subsequent activity history associated with the individual, wherein the activity history comprises online transactions associated with the individual, and where the online transactions are associated with multiple locations and the accounts; and selectively removing, based at least in part on the monitored activity history, the online content associated with the individual and at least some of the locations after receiving information specifying an occurrence of an event associated with health of the individual, wherein the online content comprises one or more of: messages associated with a communication account, transaction information associated with a financial account, information associated with a weblog, or activity associated with a social-media account.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the enrollment process comprises setting up cloud-based tracking that performs the monitoring of the activity history.
</claims>
</document>
