<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/16,G06F16/25,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/02,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJITSU
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANDAL, AVRADIP
MITCHELL, JOHN C.
MONTGOMERY, HART
ROY, ARNAB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63790127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Privacy preservation
</title>

<abstract>
An anonymization system may include a merger to merge a public database and a private database to create a merged database. The merged database may include multiple blank entries and multiple initial values associated with multiple user identifiers. The anonymization system may include a value generator to fill values for the blank entries via a machine learning algorithm and based on the initial values to create a filled database including the initial values and the fill values. The anonymization system may include a perturber to perturb one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the filled database to create a perturbed database. The anonymization system may include a releaser to release at least a portion of the perturbed database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An anonymization system comprising: one or more non-transitory computer-readable media configured to store one or more instructions; and one or more processors coupled to the one or more computer-readable media, the one or more processors configured to execute the one or more instructions to cause or direct the anonymization system to perform operations comprising: merging a public database and a private database to create a merged database, the merged database including a plurality of first entries that each include a null value and the merged database including a plurality of second entries that each include an initial value, wherein each blank entry and each initial entry is associated with one of a plurality of user identifiers, and wherein each corresponding blank entry is associated with an associated user and includes the null value in response to both the public database and the private database not including information specific to the corresponding blank entry that is associated with the associated user; generating fill values for the first entries via a machine learning algorithm and based on the initial values to create a filled database including the initial values and the fill values, wherein the fill values replace the null values and each fill value of each corresponding blank entry is an estimation of the information associated with the corresponding blank entry for the associated user of the corresponding blank entry; perturbing one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the filled database such that one or more of the granularity, precision, and accuracy of the one or more perturbed values is decreased to create a perturbed database; replacing the plurality of user identifiers with a plurality of random supercookies; and releasing at least a portion of the perturbed database.
2. The anonymization system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise averaging values of associated entries in the public database and the private database to create associated values in the merged database.
3. The anonymization system of claim 1, wherein the machine learning includes item-based collaborative filtering.
4. The anonymization system of claim 1, wherein the perturbing the one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the values of the filled database includes perturbing the values of the filled database such that distance metrics between rows of the perturbed database and rows of the public database are not close to each other based on L2 distance.
5. The anonymization system of claim 4, wherein the distance metrics include an Lp distance that ignores entries associated with null entries of the public database.
6. The anonymization system of claim 4, wherein the distance metrics include an Lp distance that considers entries associated with null entries of the public database.
7. A method of preserving privacy of individuals associated with database entries, the method comprising: merging a public database and a private database to create a merged database, the merged database including a plurality of first entries that each include a null value and the merged database including a plurality of second entries that each include an initial value, wherein each blank entry and each initial entry is associated with one of a plurality of user identifiers, and wherein each corresponding blank entry is associated with an associated user and includes the null value in response to both the public database and the private database not including information specific to the corresponding blank entry that is associated with the associated user; generating fill values for the first entries via a machine learning algorithm and based on the initial values to create a filled database including the initial values and the fill values, wherein the fill values replace the null values and each fill value of each corresponding blank entry is an estimation of the information associated with the corresponding blank entry for the associated user of the corresponding blank entry; perturbing one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the filled database to generate a perturbed database such that distance metrics between rows of the perturbed database and rows of the public database are not close to each other based on L2 distance; and releasing at least a portion of the perturbed database.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the merging of the public database and the private database to create the merged database includes averaging values of associated entries in the public database and the private database.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the machine learning includes item-based collaborative filtering.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising replacing the plurality of user identifiers with a plurality of random supercookies.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the distance metrics include an Lp distance that ignores entries associated with null entries of the public database.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the distance metrics include an Lp distance that considers entries associated with null entries of the public database.
13. A non-transitory computer readable medium configured to cause a system to perform operations of preserving privacy of individuals associated with database entries, the operations comprising: merging a public database and a private database to create a merged database, the merged database including a plurality of first entries that each include a null value and the merged database including a plurality of second entries that each include an initial value, wherein each blank entry and each initial entry is associated with one of a plurality of user identifiers, and wherein each corresponding blank entry is associated with an associated user and includes the null value in response to both the public database and the private database not including information specific to the corresponding blank entry that is associated with the associated user; generating fill values for the first entries via a machine learning algorithm and based on the initial values to create a filled database including the initial values and the fill values, wherein the fill values replace the null values and each fill value of each corresponding blank entry is an estimation of the information associated with the corresponding blank entry for the associated user of the corresponding blank entry; perturbing one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the filled database such that one or more of the granularity, precision, and accuracy of the one or more perturbed values is decreased to create a perturbed database, wherein the perturbing the one or more of the initial values or the fill values of the filled database includes perturbing the values of the filled database such that distance metrics between rows of the perturbed database and rows of the public database are not close to each other based on L2 distance; and releasing at least a portion of the perturbed database.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the merging of the public database and the private database to create the merged database includes averaging values of associated entries in the public database and the private database.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the machine learning includes item-based collaborative filtering.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, the operations further comprising replacing the plurality of user identifiers with a plurality of random supercookies.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, wherein the distance metrics include at least one of: an Lp distance that ignores entries associated with null entries of the public database, and an Lp distance that considers entries associated with null entries of the public database.
</claims>
</document>
