<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/52,G06F21/62,G06N3/08,G06N7/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SECUREWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DANFORD, ROBERT
HACKWORTH, AARON
RAMSEY, JON
VIDAS, TIMOTHY
URBANSKI, WILLIAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66327777
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for sharing, distributing, or accessing security data and/or security applications, models, or analytics
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for developing and distributing applications and data for building security applications can be provided. A plurality of data policies can be set for access and/or filtering security data based on selected parameters. One or more modules can be generated for processing the security data, with each of the modules governed by one or more module policies. Upon receipt of a request to initiate execution of the one or more modules to access and process a selected portion or filtered set of the security data, it can be determined if the request violates the data policies and/or the module policies applicable for processing the selected portion or filtered set of the security data, and if the data policies and/or the module policies are not violated, the one or more modules can be executed to process the selected portion or filtered set of the security data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of developing and distributing applications and data for building security applications, comprising: determining and setting a plurality of data policies for access and/or filtering of security data based on selected parameters; selecting a plurality of modules for processing the security data, the plurality of modules including one or more modules operable to apply one or more predictive security applications or models to the security data for detection or identification of security threats, malicious, or suspicious activity; one or more modules operable to take one or more preventative or remedial actions based on detected or identified security threats, malicious, or suspicious activity; and one or more modules for providing access to the security data with like actors or sharing partners; setting one or more module execution policies governing execution of the plurality of modules, the one or more module execution policies including at least one policy for normalizing the security data; creating, updating and/or modifying of the one or more predictive applications or models, used for processing the security data; for detecting the security threats, malicious, or suspicious activity; for taking remediation measures for the detected or identified security threats, malicious, or suspicious activity; for providing access to the security data; and for determining what resources are available to execute the one or more modules; receiving a request to initiate execution of the selected plurality of modules to access and process a selected portion or filtered set of the security data; determining if the request violates one or more of the data policies or one or more of the module execution policies applicable for processing the selected portion or filtered set of the security data; if one or more of the data policies or the one or more module execution policies are violated, blocking execution of the selected plurality of modules as requested; and if the data policies or the module execution policies are not violated, executing the selected plurality of modules to process the selected portion or filtered set of the security data; wherein, execution of the plurality modules comprises applying the one or more predictive security applications or models to the selected portion or filtered set of the security data to identify a security threat and/or malicious or suspicious activity and providing access to at least a portion of the security data with the like actors or sharing partners.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering the security data to remove selected proprietary or sensitive data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules further includes one or more modules operable for normalizing the accessed selected portion or filtered set security data by structuring the security data to enable access to and processing of the security data by the one or more predictive applications or models.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more predictive security applications or models comprises artificial intelligence, neural networks, machine learning, statistical analysis, probabilistic modeling, named entity recognition, or combinations thereof.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more historical metrics based in part on application of the data policies and/or the module execution policies.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: setting one or more infrastructure policies that determine a time, a location, and/or resources to be used for execution of the plurality of modules; and if the one or more infrastructure policies are violated, blocking execution of the plurality of modules as requested.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating historical metrics that capture previously developed data policies, module policies, and infrastructure policies; and if one or more of the historical metric are violated, blocking execution of the plurality of modules as requested, even if the data policies, the module policies, or the infrastructure policies are not violated.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of modules includes a pipeline of modules with sets of selectable modules that are executed according to a prescribed sequence.
9. A system of developing and distributing applications and data for building security applications, comprising: a plurality of data storage centers; at least one processor including a platform broker that applies a plurality of data policies for accessing and filtering security data at one or more of the data storage centers, and is operable to execute a plurality of analytical modules for processing the security data, the plurality of analytical modules including one or more modules operable to apply one or more security applications or predictive models for detection or identification of security threats, and one or more modules operable to take remediation actions based on detected or identified security threats wherein the platform broker is configured to: a. receive a request to initiate execution of a selected analytical module or set of analytical modules of the plurality of analytical modules to access at least a selected portion or filtered set of the security data; b. apply applicable data policies to the accessed security data and execute the selected analytical module or set of analytical modules to process the security data if access and application of the selected analytical module or set of analytical modules to the accessed security data does not violate one or more of the plurality of data policies; and c. repeat steps a. and b. for each request to initiate execution selected analytical modules or sets of analytical modules of the plurality of modules; wherein, upon execution of the plurality of analytical modules, the plurality of analytical modules applies the one or more security applications or predictive models to the security data to predict or determine if a security threat is found and applies one or more remediation actions to address the security threat; and wherein the processor is operable to generate new or updated security data upon execution of the selected analytical modules or sets of analytical modules.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the platform broker is configured to be operable using a variety of differing hardware, infrastructure systems, and operating software.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the security applications or predictive models comprise artificial intelligence, neural networks, machine learning, probabilistic modeling, named entity recognition, or combinations thereof.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the platform broker is cloud-based and is configured to access the plurality of data storage centers.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the platform broker further is configured to apply one or more applicable module execution policies and execute the selected analytical module or set of analytical modules to process the security data if execution of the selected analytical module or set of analytical modules does not violate one or more of the module execution policies.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the platform broker further is configured to apply one or more set infrastructure policies that determine a time, a location, and/or resources to be used for execution of the plurality of modules, and block execution of the selected analytical module or set of analytical modules if one or more of the infrastructure policies are violated.
15. A method, comprising: obtaining security data from one or more data producers; setting one or more data policies for determining access to and filtering of the security data; selecting a module pipeline including plurality of modules configured to be executed in a prescribed sequence to process the security data, the plurality of modules including one or more modules operable to normalize or structure at least a portion of the security data; one or more modules operable to apply one or more predictive security models or applications to the at least a portion of the security data for detection or identification of one or more security threats; and one or more modules operable to decide a specific action to be taken to mitigate or eliminate one or more identified or detected security threats; setting one or more module policies for the plurality of modules, the one or more module policies including at least one policy for normalizing or structuring the security data; at least one policy for creating, updating or modifying the one or more predictive security models or applications; and at least one policy for actions taken for detected or identified security threats; setting one or more infrastructure policies that determine a time, a location, or resources to be used for execution of the plurality of modules; if execution of one or more of the plurality of modules violates at least one of the one or more data policies, the one or more module policies, or the one or more infrastructure policies, blocking execution of each of the plurality of modules; and if execution of one or more of the plurality of modules does not violate the one or more data policies, the one or more module policies, or the one more infrastructure policies, executing the plurality of modules according to the prescribed sequence of the selected module pipeline.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein execution of the plurality modules includes normalizing or structuring a filtered portion of the security data to generate normalized or structured security data, the filtered portion of the security data obtained based on at least one of the one or more data policies; applying the one or more predictive security models or applications to the filtered portion of the security data for detection or identification of a security threat; and determining a specific action to be taken to mitigate or eliminate the security threat.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the predictive security models or applications comprise artificial intelligence, neural networks, machine learning, probabilistic modeling, named entity recognition, or combinations thereof.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: generating historical metrics that capture previously developed data policies, module policies, and infrastructure policies; and if one or more of the historical metric are violated, blocking execution of the plurality of modules as requested, even if the data policies, the module policies, or the infrastructure policies are not violated.
</claims>
</document>
