<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/352,A63F13/358,A63F13/795,A63F13/847,G06F9/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
YONG, KELVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68841236
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
MASSIVE MULTI-PLAYER COMPUTE
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems for managing processing resources of an online game include executing the online game for one or more users. Each user is provided access to virtual locations in a gaming world of the online game. A compute is assigned for processing gaming interactivity of the one or more users in the gaming world. A number of users accessing a region within a virtual location are determined. When the number of users exceeds a predefined limit for the compute assigned to the users in the region, the region is divided into a plurality of sub-regions and additional compute is assigned for the region so that the compute and the additional compute can process gaming interactivity for the users in each of the sub-regions defined in the gaming world.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: executing an online game for a plurality of users, each user of the plurality of users is provided access to a virtual location of a gaming world provided by the online game; identifying one or more virtual locations of the gaming world where one or more users of the plurality of users are present; assigning one or more compute resources to each virtual location identified in the gaming world, for processing gaming interactivity provided there-in by said one or more users, wherein a number of compute resources assigned to each virtual location is based on processing load required for processing the gaming interactivity; monitoring the processing load for each of the one or more compute resources assigned to each said virtual location identified in the gaming world; and dynamically adjusting a number of compute resources assigned to each said virtual location, so as to handle the processing load at each said virtual location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring includes verifying that the processing load for each compute resource assigned to a virtual location identified in the gaming world is within a predefined limit established for said compute resource.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein dynamically adjusting further includes, assigning one or more additional compute resources to said virtual location or de-assigning one or more compute resources assigned to said virtual location, based on the processing load detected at the virtual location, wherein the processing load is distributed amongst the number of compute resources assigned to the virtual location.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein monitoring further includes, identifying a region within a virtual location identified in the gaming world where a number of users are providing gaming interactivity, wherein said number of users in said region are associated with one or more compute resources for processing gaming interactivity provided by said number of users in said region; and verifying that the number of said users accessing the region of said virtual location is below a predefined limit for said assigned one or more compute resources, wherein gaming interactivity provided by each of said number of users influences the processing load in said region of the virtual location.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein dynamically adjusting further includes, dividing the region into a plurality of sub-regions, in response to detecting said number of users exceeding the predefined limit, wherein each sub-region of the plurality of sub-regions includes at least one user of said region; and assigning one or more additional compute resources for the region, such that the one or more compute resources and the one or more additional compute resources assigned for the region are configured to process gaming interactivity provided by the users in each of the sub-regions of the region.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein a number of said plurality of sub-regions created in the region is based on the number of said users present in the region.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein assigning one or more additional compute resources includes assigning a distinct compute for processing user inputs representing gaming interactivity related to each sub-region.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein identifying the number of users accessing the region includes tracking movement of each of said one or more users into or out of each sub-region of the plurality of sub-regions, the movement of each of said one or more users used in dynamically adjusting the compute resources assigned for the region.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein dynamically adjusting a number of compute resources includes de-assigning one or more of the additional compute resources assigned to the region, when said number of users within said region falls below the predefined limit, based on movement of said one or more users.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein de-assigning the one or more of the additional compute resources is performed after successful synchronization of game related data of the gaming world between the one or more compute resources and additional compute resources assigned to the region and the one or more of the additional compute resources that are being de-assigned, wherein the game related data is generated from the gaming interactivity of said one or more users in said region.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein dynamic adjusting is done based on resource capabilities of the one or more computes, the one or more additional computes assigned to the region, and resource requirements of the region.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein each sub-region of the plurality of sub-regions is defined by a boundary and is assigned one or more distinct compute resources for processing gaming interactivity originating from users present in said sub-region; and wherein tracking movement of each of said one or more users includes, detecting a user moving from a first sub-region to a boundary defined between the first sub-region and a consecutive second sub-region of the plurality of sub-regions defined in the region; and managing communication between compute resources assigned to each of the first and second sub-regions, in response to detecting the user on the boundary, to enable processing of gaming interactivity of said user, the processing of gaming interactivity synchronized between the compute resources assigned to the first and the second sub-regions.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein tracking movement of each of said one or more users includes, tracking movement of each of said one or more users within said region; and adjusting a number of the sub-regions within the region based on number of users accessing the region, wherein the adjusting includes merging two or more sub-regions within the region or creating additional sub-regions within the region, wherein adjusting the sub-region includes adjusting compute resources assigned for the region.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the gaming interactivity in said region corresponds to user inputs provided by said one or more users during play of the online game, wherein said one or more users include one of players or spectators.
15. A method, comprising: executing an online game for a plurality of users, each user of the plurality of users is provided access to a virtual location of a gaming world provided by the online game; identifying one or more virtual locations of the gaming world where one or more users of the plurality of users are present; assigning one or more compute resources to each virtual location identified in the gaming world, for processing gaming interactivity provided there-in by said one or more users, wherein a number of compute resources assigned to each virtual location is based on processing load required for processing the gaming interactivity originating in said virtual location; monitoring movement of the one or more users in each virtual location, wherein the monitoring includes identifying one or more users that have moved into or out of each virtual location; and dynamically adjusting a number of compute resources assigned to each said virtual location, based on the monitored movement, so as to handle the processing load at each said virtual location.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring includes verifying that the processing load for each compute resource assigned to a virtual location identified in the gaming world is within a predefined limit established for said compute resource.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein each virtual location is defined by a boundary and is assigned one or more distinct compute resources for processing gaming interactivity originating from users present in the virtual location, and wherein monitoring movement further includes, detecting a user moving from a first virtual location to a boundary defined between the first virtual location and a consecutive second virtual location; and managing communication between compute resources assigned to each of the first and second virtual locations, in response to detecting the user moving to the boundary, to enable processing of gaming interactivity of said user, the processing of gaming interactivity synchronized between the compute resources assigned to the first and the second virtual locations.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein monitoring movement of each of said one or more users includes, tracking movement of each of said one or more users within said virtual location; and responsive to detecting said number of users in the virtual location exceeding a predefined limit, dividing the virtual location into a plurality of regions, wherein each region includes at least one user of said virtual location, each region being associated with one or more distinct compute resources for processing gaming interactivity originating from said region.
</claims>
</document>
