<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G10L15/22,G10L17/00,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLYMPUS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
FUKUYA, YOSHIYUKI
ITO, DAI
KOHASHI, ATSUSHI
LI, ZHEN
NONAKA OSAMU
OSA, KAZUHIKO
SHIMA, NOBUYUKI
SHIMURA KAZUHIKO
YONEYAMA, HISASHI
YOSHIDA, YOICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67540339
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Imaging device, information terminal, control method for imaging device, and control method for information terminal
</title>

<abstract>
An imaging device, comprising an image sensor that images a shooting target and outputs image data, a memory that stores inference models for performing guidance display or automatic control, when shooting the shooting target, an inference engine that performs inference for the control of the guidance display or automatic control, using the inference model, and a controller that determines whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting a shooting target that the user wants, and if it is determined that the inference model is not suitable for shooting, requests generation of an inference model that is suitable for a shooting target the user wants to an external learning device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging device, comprising an image sensor that images a shooting target and outputs image data, a memory that stores inference models for performing guidance display or automatic control, when shooting the shooting target, an inference engine that performs inference for the control of the guidance display or automatic control, using the inference model, and a controller that, regarding whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting of the shooting target, compares a value representing operating state of a specified inference model that is usable, or a confidence value of an inference result at the time of operation of the specified inference model, with a specified value, determines whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting a shooting target intended by the user based on the result of this comparison, and depending on the determination, if it has been determined that the inference model is not suitable for shooting a shooting target intended by the user, requests generation of an inference model that is suitable for a shooting target intended by the user to an external learning device.
2. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the controller determines whether or not the inference model is suitable for the shooting target, based on whether or not an inference model that is suitable for a shooting target that has been designated by the user is stored in the memory, or whether or not a result of inference using the inference engine is that images of low reliability are obtained, or whether or not it has been determined that the inference model used in the second inference engine is not suitable for the shooting target.
3. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: when the imaging device performs imaging under different conditions, and there is no improvement in reliability using the inference model under any conditions when inference has been performed with an inference model using the results of this imaging, the controller determines whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting a shooting target that has been predicted to be shot by the user.
4. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the inference engine has a second inference engine for determining whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting a shooting target that has been predicted, and the second inference engine performs inference using a second inference model, and when the second inference model creates the inference model, images that do not obtain reliability of a specified level or higher, from among training data, are collected together as training data, and are results that have been learned.
5. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the controller predicts a shooting target that the user wants before shooting, and based on this prediction determines whether or not the inference model that is stored in the storage section is suitable for shooting of the shooting target that has been predicted.
6. The imaging device of claim 1, further comprising: a display that displays a through image based on the image data, and wherein if the controller determines, using the inference model at the time of shooting the shooting target, that an inference model is not suitable for favorable shooting of a shooting target the user wants, warning display is performed on the display.
7. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the controller calculates reliability of inference that is performed by the inference engine, and if this reliability is higher than a specified value determines that inference to be suitable for shooting of the shooting target.
8. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the memory is capable of storing a plurality of inference models; and the inference engine performs inference by selecting an inference model that is appropriate for the shooting target from among the plurality of inference models.
9. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the memory further comprises a general purpose inference model; and the inference engine performs inference by selecting the general-purpose inference model in the event that it has been determined by the determination section that an inference model is not appropriate to shooting of the shooting target.
10. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the controller sets requirements for generating the inference model, and transmits the requirements that have been set to the external learning device.
11. The imaging device of claim 10, wherein: the controller sets requirements by designated at least one of type of shooting target and position information, and transmits the inference model together with the requirements that have been set, to the external learning device.
12. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the inference engine maintains the inference model for a specified period, even if it has been determined by the controller to not be suitable for shooting of the shooting target.
13. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the memory stores a give up inference model, in order to infer that it is not possible to perform shooting advice or automatic control for a shooting target, and the inference engine performs inference for whether or not it is possible to perform the guidance display or automatic control, using the give up inference model.
14. The imaging device of claim 1, further comprising: a communication circuit capable of advertise transmission, wherein the controller performs advertise transmission of contents that have been acquired by the imaging device, or a generation request for an inference model that is suitable for the shooting target, to the external learning device.
15. The imaging device of claim 1, wherein: the controller, in a case where it has been determined that the inference model is not suitable for shooting a shooting target the user wants, when requesting generation of an inference model that is suitable for a shooting target the user wants to an external learning device, requests generation of the inference model to the external device after acquiring permission of the user.
16. A control method for an imaging device, comprising: imaging a shooting target and outputting image data, storing inference models for performing guidance display or automatic control, when shooting the shooting target, in a storage section, performing inference for control of the guidance display, or automatic control, using the inference model, and regarding whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting of the shooting target, comparing a value representing operating state of a specified inference model that is usable, or a confidence value of an inference result at the time of operation of the specified inference model, with a specified value, determining whether or not the inference model is suitable for shooting a shooting target intended by the user based on the result of this comparison, and depending on the determination, if it has been determined that the inference model is not suitable for shooting a shooting target intended by the user, requesting generation of an inference model that is suitable for the shooting target intended by the user to an external learning device.
</claims>
</document>
