<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B3/00,A61B3/10,A61B3/14,A61B34/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KULKARNI, MANISH DINKARRAO
NETRA SYSTEMS
SIDHU, MANMOHAN SINGH
</assignee>

<inventors>
KULKARNI, MANISH DINKARRAO
SIDHU, MANMOHAN SINGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60482566
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Foldable and portable ocular systems
</title>

<abstract>
There is a need for robust and portable system, and apparatus for ophthalmology. We propose use of foldable ophthalmic system. Our system will have a chin-rest (or face-rest or forehead rest) that can be folded so that the ocular device could be transported in a brief-case type casing. Our system can be used for many modalities including optical coherence tomography.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An ophthalmic system comprising of at least one means to hold the face of a patient called a face-holder; wherein the face-holder can be folded at least once; and the face-holder further comprises of a forehead rest, which is a resting pad to rest the forehead; a light source emitting light of a specific bandwidth called a first light; the light source operates at a center wavelength λ; a beam splitter to split the first light from a source arm to a reference arm and a sample arm; the sample arm further comprising of an optical delivery unit; the optical delivery unit is further integrated with the face-holder; the sample arm sends the second path of light to an eye using the optical delivery unit and the eye reflects back the second path of light as a returning light via the optical delivery unit to the beam splitter; a reference mirror in the reference arm returning the first path light to the beam splitter to join a returning light from the eye; a partial returning light from the beam splitter travels through a detector arm to a grating unit; the grating unit disperses the partial returning light from the beam splitter and a dispersed light enters the detector array to produce a light spectrum; and a processor performs a data analysis using a specific algorithm on the light spectrum; and the processor generates A-scans of the eye; a base; and the system fits in at least one of a box, a tablet and a briefcase; and the system comprises of at least one of ophthalmic imaging, perimetry, corneal topography, auto-refractors, fundus photography, scanning retinal imaging, and a therapeutic component.
2. The system of claim 1; further comprising of at least one part made using at least one of High-density polyethylene, Polyvinyl chloride, Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, Polyether ether ketone, 6061 aluminum alloy, various varieties of 6061 aluminum alloy, Nickel-chromium alloys, stainless steel, stainless steel related alloys, heat and chemical resistant polymers, and Acetal homopolymer.
3. The system of claim 1; where at least one part of the system is built using at least one of machining, structural reaction injection molding, reaction injection molding, injection molding, thermoplastics and thermosetting plastics.
4. The system of claim 1; wherein the specific algorithm further comprises of at least one of frequency resampling, demodulation, dispersion compensation, and Doppler processing algorithms.
5. The system of claim 4; wherein the frequency resampling comprises of at least one of linear interpolation, spline interpolation, convolution using a Kaiser-Bessel window; the demodulation algorithm comprises of a modified Hilbert transform where the light spectra are Fourier transformed in a lateral direction; the dispersion compensation comprises of at least one of coherent deconvolution and flattening the Fourier domain phase of a mirror reflection; the Doppler processing algorithm comprises at least one of short time Fourier transforms, computing a centroid of the short time Fourier transform; an adaptive centroid algorithm.
6. The system of claim 1; further comprising of at least one feature selected from the following group: the face-holder can be ejected from the base; the face-holder can be folded by collapsing multi-stage telescopic legs; the face-holder comprises of a chin-rest and a forehead rest and only the portion between the chin-rest and the base is collapsible using the multi-stage telescopic legs; a folding hinge near the chin-rest; a folding hinge for the face holder near the instrument base; the chin-rest can be removed using a button from the base; the chin-rest is attached to the base; the chin-rest is attached to a pole of the face-holder; the chin-rest can be removed from the pole of the face-holder; a projector to display; at least one of a touch-sensitive display screen, and a display having stereoscopic capabilities; the system operates on at least one of batteries and rechargeable batteries; a vehicle charger to charge the batteries by sourcing power from a vehicle; at least one waveplate; an eye-fixation target; the optical delivery unit comprises of at least one of galvanometer and a MEMS mirror; the processor generates B-scans using A-scans and the optical delivery unit generates scan-patterns comprising of at least two B-scans, each B-scan having its specific A-scan rate; the eye-piece has railings to move it forward and backward with respect to the patient's eye; the chin-rest and the face-holder can be folded completely and slides in the system's side.
7. The system of claim 6; where at least one waveplate is a (2M+1)λ/m waveplate where M and m are integers.
8. The system of claim 7; where the waveplate is created using an optical fiber.
9. An ophthalmic system comprising of at least one means to hold the face of a patient called a face-holder; a face holder comprising of a spectacles-type assembly attached to the eyes; and a tunable light source; the tunable light source produces a light of various frequencies within a specific bandwidth; a beam splitter to split the first light from a source arm to a reference arm and a sample arm; the sample arm further comprising of an optical delivery unit; the sample arm sends the second path of light to an eye using the optical delivery unit and the eye reflects back the second path of light as a returning light via the optical delivery unit to the beam splitter; a reference mirror in the reference arm returning the first path light to the beam splitter to join a returning light from the eye; a partial returning light from the beam splitter travels through a detector arm to a detector; the detector further directs the signal to an analog to digital converter to generate a digitized signal; and the digitized signal is directed towards a processor; and such a measurement produces spectra; the processor analyzes the digitized signal using a specific algorithm; and the processor generates A-scans of the eye; at least one of a projector to display and a display screen; a base; and the system fits in at least one of a box, a tablet and a briefcase.
10. The system of claim 9; wherein the specific algorithm further comprises of at least one of frequency resampling, demodulation, dispersion compensation, and Doppler processing algorithms.
11. The system of claim 10; wherein the frequency resampling comprises of at least one of linear interpolation, spline interpolation, convolution using a Kaiser-Bessel window; the demodulation algorithm comprises of a modified Hilbert transform where spectra are Fourier transformed in a lateral direction; the dispersion compensation comprises of at least one of coherent deconvolution and flattening the Fourier domain phase of a mirror reflection; the Doppler processing algorithm comprises at least one of short time Fourier transforms, computing a centroid of the short time Fourier transform; an adaptive centroid algorithm.
12. The system of claim 9; where the processor is selected from a group consisting of a computer, an integrated circuit, an application specific integrated circuit, a field programmable gate array, a graphical processing unit, an embedded system and a microcontroller.
13. The system of claim 9 further comprising of at least one feature selected from the following group: an eye-piece in the spectacles-type assembly may be moved from one eye to the other for analyzing both the eyes; the face-holder can be ejected from the base; the display screen is at least one of a touch-sensitive screen, and a display having stereoscopic capabilities; the system operates on at least one of batteries and rechargeable batteries; a vehicle charger to charge the batteries by sourcing power from a vehicle; an eye-fixation target; the optical delivery unit comprises of at least one of galvanometer and a MEMS mirror.
14. The system of claim 9, where in at least one of the tunable light source, the processor, the reference arm, the sample arm, the detection arm, the beam splitter, the detector reside in the base.
15. An ophthalmic system comprising of at least one means to hold the face of a patient called a face-holder; wherein the face-holder can be folded at least once; and a base; and at least one of ophthalmic imaging, perimetry, corneal topography, auto-refractors, fundus photography, scanning retinal imaging, optical coherence tomography and a therapeutic component; and further comprising of at least one feature selected from the following: the system fits in at least one of a box, a tablet and a briefcase; a face holder comprising of a spectacles-type assembly attached to the eyes; an eye-piece in the spectacles-type assembly may be moved from one eye to the other for analyzing both the eyes; wherein at least one part of the system is built using at least one of machining, structural reaction injection molding, reaction injection molding, injection molding, thermoplastics and thermosetting plastics.
16. The system of claim 15; further comprising of at least one feature selected from the following group: a base; the face-holder can be ejected from the base; the face-holder can be folded by collapsing multi-stage telescopic legs; the face-holder comprises of a chin-rest and a forehead rest and only the portion between the chin-rest and the base is collapsible using the multi-stage telescopic legs; there is a folding hinge near the chin-rest; there is a folding hinge for the face holder near the instrument base; the chin-rest can be removed using a button from the base; the chin-rest is attached to the base; the chin-rest is attached to a pole of the face-holder; the chin-rest can be removed from the pole of the face-holder; an eye-fixation target; the system operates on at least one of batteries and rechargeable batteries; a vehicle charger to charge the batteries by sourcing power from a vehicle; a projector to display; at least one of a touch-sensitive screen and a display having stereoscopic capabilities; the face-holder further comprises of a forehead rest, which is a resting pad to rest the forehead.
17. The system of claim 15 further comprising of at least one part made using a material selected from a group consisting of High-density polyethylene, Polyvinyl chloride, Acrylonitrile butadiene styrene, Polyether ether ketone, 6061 aluminum alloy, various varieties of 6061 aluminum alloy, Nickel-chromium alloys, stainless steel, stainless steel related alloys, heat and chemical resistant polymers, and Acetal homopolymer.
18. The system of claim 15 further comprising of at least one of evaluation and treatment of an organ selected from a group consisting of a retina, a posterior segment, a cornea, and an anterior segment.
</claims>
</document>
