<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A47G19/22,A47G23/10,G01F11/00,G01F22/00,G01F23/00,G16H20/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GALLANT, RYAN
DONG, BO
BISWAS, SUBIR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55016784
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and methods for a smart water bottle converter
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system may track liquid consumption by a user from a liquid container using a flexible, network-connected, smart band. The smart band may detect orientations of the liquid container and identify sips taken by a user based on a pattern in the detected orientations. The smart band may also estimate a liquid consumption metric based on characteristics of the identified sips such as the duration of the sip. The identified sip as well as sip characteristics and the liquid consumption metric may be displayed on the smart band, and also may be transmitted to a server for storage and for display on another network-enabled device.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for tracking liquid consumption, the method comprising: detecting, by one or more processors, one or more orientations of a liquid container; identifying that a sip from the liquid container has been taken by a user based on a sip signature identified according to the detected one or more orientations of the liquid container, the sip signature determined based on a plurality of sips from a plurality of other users; identifying one or more characteristics of the sip; analyzing the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user; and transmitting the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to one or more computing devices via a communication network for storage.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein detecting one or more orientations of a liquid container comprises detecting acceleration data for the liquid container via an accelerometer.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: filtering the detected acceleration data for the liquid container to obtain data including one or more orientations of the liquid container which differs from a default orientation.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more characteristics of the sip includes at least one of: a duration of the sip, a maximum orientation for the sip, a slope of the orientation during the sip, an average orientation for the sip, or a ratio between a rising part of the sip and a falling part of the sip.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying that a sip has been taken comprises identifying that a plurality of sips have been taken and wherein analyzing the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user comprises: for each of the plurality of sips, determining an estimate of a volume of liquid consumed by the user based on the one or more orientations of the liquid container corresponding to the sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip; aggregating one or more estimates of the volume of the liquid consumed by the user for each identified sip until the refill event is detected; comparing the aggregated estimate of the volume to a volume of the liquid container; and training for future volume estimates based on a difference between the aggregated estimate of the volume and the actual volume of the liquid container.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying that a sip has been taken comprises identifying that a plurality of sips have been taken and wherein analyzing the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user comprises: aggregating each of the plurality of sips to determine an overall number of sips over a time interval; and determining the estimate of the liquid consumption metric based on the overall number sips over the time interval.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the sip signature comprises: (i) an increase in acceleration of the liquid container, (ii) a constant acceleration of the liquid container, and (iii) a decrease in acceleration of the liquid container.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying the estimate of the liquid consumption metric for the user on a user interface.
9. A system for tracking liquid consumption of a liquid container, the system comprising: a communication interface; and one or more computing devices communicatively coupled to the communication interface, each of the one or more computing devices having a memory and one or more processors and the one or more computing devices configured to: detect an indication of one or more orientations of a liquid container; identify that a sip from the liquid container has been taken by a user based on a sip signature identified according to the detected one or more orientations of the liquid container, the sip signature determined based on a plurality of sips from plurality of other users; identify one or more characteristics of the sip; analyze the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user; and transmit the sip identification information and the one or more characteristics of the sip to one or more server computing devices via the communication interface for storage.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising an accelerometer, wherein the one or more computing devices are further configured to detect the one or more orientations of the liquid container based on acceleration data from the accelerometer.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more computing devices are further configured to: filter the detected acceleration data for the liquid container to obtain data including one or more orientations of the liquid container which differs from a default orientation.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more characteristics of the sip includes at least one of: a duration of the sip, a maximum orientation for the sip, a slope of the orientation during the sip, an average orientation for the sip, or a ratio between a rising part of the sip and a falling part of the sip.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein a sip comprises a plurality of sips and wherein to analyze the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user, the one or more computing devices are configured to: for each of the plurality of sips, determine an estimate of a volume of liquid consumed by the user based on the one or more orientations of the liquid container corresponding to the sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip; aggregate one or more estimates of the volume of the liquid consumed by the user for each identified sip until the refill event is detected; compare the aggregated estimate of the volume to a volume of the liquid container; and train for future volume estimates based on a difference between the aggregated estimate of the volume and the actual volume of the liquid container.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein a sip comprises a plurality of sips and wherein to analyze the identified sip and the one or more characteristics of the sip to determine an estimate of a liquid consumption metric for the user, the one or more computing devices are configured to: aggregate each of the plurality of sips to determine an overall number of sips over a time interval; and determine the estimate of the liquid consumption metric based on the overall number sips over the time interval.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the sip signature comprises: (i) an increase in acceleration of the liquid container, (ii) a constant acceleration of the liquid container, and (iii) a decrease in acceleration of the liquid container.
16. The system of claim 9, further comprising a user interface, wherein the one or more computing devices are further configured to display the estimate of the liquid consumption metric for the user on the user interface.
</claims>
</document>
