<document>

<filing_date>
2014-11-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-11-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/174,G06F17/30,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ORBIS TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EMADZADEH, MANA
IPPOLITO, BRIAN
HAMBY, STEVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53183647
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and computer implemented methods for semantic data compression
</title>

<abstract>
Computer implemented methods and systems directed to a technological improvement in electronic data compression and transmission between two computer systems using semantic analysis are disclosed. The method includes the step of compressing, at a first computer, a plurality of queued artifacts based on one or more network decision variables. The compression includes prioritizing the queued artifacts. The compression further includes determining a first set of artifacts in a set of queued artifacts to transmit and a second set of artifacts in a set of queued artifacts to only send links. The compression further includes replacing unnecessary content in the set of queued artifacts with one or more identifiers. The method further includes the step of transmitting, from the first computer, one or more batches of the compressed data over a network to a second computer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for semantic data compression and transmission, comprising: receiving, at a first computer, a query from a second computer to transmit a plurality of artifacts to the second computer over a network, wherein the plurality of artifacts are from a corpus of documents; queuing, at the first computer, the plurality of artifacts in response to the received query, wherein the plurality of artifacts are semantically related; performing packet compression, at the first computer, on the plurality of queued artifacts, wherein packet compression comprises discarding artifacts determined to have been previously transmitted to the second computer; performing semantic compression, at the first computer, on the plurality of queued artifacts based on one or more network decision variables, wherein the semantic compression comprises: prioritizing, at the first computer, the plurality of queued artifacts, wherein prioritizing includes assigning a priority to each artifact based on network analytics and including the one or more network decision variables, wherein the network analytics are based on the entire corpus of documents, determining, at the first computer, for each of the plurality of prioritized queued artifacts, whether to send the artifact or only a link to the artifact based on the priority assigned to the artifact, based on a size of the artifact and available bandwidth, the determining resulting in a first set of artifacts in the plurality of queued artifacts to transmit and a second set of artifacts in the plurality of queued artifacts to only send links, and replacing, at the first computer, unnecessary content in the first set of prioritized queued artifacts with one or more identifiers, wherein replacing is based on the frequency of the content across the entire corpus of documents, and wherein replacing reduces a size of the plurality of artifacts during transfer; calculating, at the first computer, an optimum batch size of the compressed queued artifacts; batching, at the first computer, the compressed queued artifacts into one or more batches based on the calculating; and transmitting, by the first computer, the one or more batches over the network to the second computer.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the network decision variables are based on at least one of relationships between textual elements in an artifact and relationships between artifacts.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the network decision variables comprise one or more of: phrase index algorithm, cluster optimization, network analysis, geographic information system coordinate based tiling, geographic information system place name index, geographic information system shape file optimization, relationship driven optimization, automated National Imagery Transmission Format chipping, key length value video correlation, and query based machine learning optimization.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein artifact data is stored in an index on a database system, and wherein the network analytics performed on the indexed artifact data are used to determine the priority.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the priority is determined based on the network analytics comprising a semantic relevance score, wherein the semantic relevance score is determined based upon uniqueness of content across the entire corpus of artifacts.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the priority is determined based on the network analytics comprising a relationship score, wherein the relationship score is determined based upon a number of relationship connections between artifacts.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the query based machine learning optimization is utilized to optimize whether the link to the artifact or the artifact is provided.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein for each of the plurality of queued artifacts, determining whether to send the artifact or a link to the artifact is based upon whether the artifact, in a prioritized list, is above or below a variable threshold.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a batch size is dynamically determined based on semantic relevance and importance of the artifact relative to the plurality of queued artifacts.
10. A cloud transfer service system for semantic data compression and transmission, comprising: a processor; a network interface coupled to the processor, wherein the network interface is communicatively coupled to a network; a data storage system; and a non-transitory memory coupled to the processor storing computer readable program instructions, wherein the computer readable program constructions configure the processor to perform the steps of: receiving a query from a second computer over the network to transmit a plurality of artifacts to the second computer over the network, wherein the plurality of artifacts are from a corpus of documents; queuing the plurality of artifacts in response to the received query, wherein the plurality of artifacts are semantically related; performing packet compression on the plurality of queued artifacts, wherein packet compression comprises discarding artifacts determined to have been previously transmitted to the second computer; performing semantic compression on the plurality of queued artifacts based on one or more network decision variables, wherein the semantic compression comprises: prioritizing the plurality of queued artifacts, wherein prioritizing includes assigning a priority to each artifact based on network analytics and including the one or more network decision variables, wherein the network analytics are based on the entire corpus of documents; determining, for each of the plurality of prioritized queued artifacts, whether to send the artifact or only a link to the artifact based on the priority assigned to the artifact, based on a size of the artifact and available bandwidth, the determining resulting in a first set of artifacts in the plurality of queued artifacts to transmit and a second set of artifacts in the plurality of queued artifacts to only send links, and replacing unnecessary content in the first set of prioritized queued artifacts with one or more identifiers, wherein replacing is based on the frequency of the content across the entire corpus of documents, and wherein replacing reduces a size of the plurality of artifacts during transfer; calculating an optimum batch size of the set of compressed queued artifacts; batching the compressed queued artifacts into one or more batches based on the calculating; and transmitting the one or more batches over the network to the second computer through the network interface.
11. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein the network decision variables are based on at least one of relationships between textual elements in an artifact and relationships between artifacts.
12. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein the network decision variables comprise one or more of: phrase index algorithm, cluster optimization, network analysis, geographic information system coordinate based tiling, geographic information system place name index, geographic information system shape file optimization, relationship driven optimization, automated National Imagery Transmission Format chipping, key length value video correlation, and query based machine learning optimization.
13. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein artifact data is stored in an index on a database system, and wherein the network analytics performed on the indexed artifact data are used to determine the priority.
14. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein the priority is determined based on the network analytics comprising a semantic relevance score, wherein the semantic relevance score is determined based upon uniqueness of content across the entire corpus of artifacts.
15. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein the priority is determined based on the network analytics comprising a relationship score, wherein the relationship score is determined based upon a number of relationship connections between artifacts.
16. The cloud transfer service system of claim 12, wherein the query based machine learning optimization is utilized to optimize whether the link to the artifact or the artifact is provided.
17. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein for each of the plurality of queued artifacts, determining whether to send the artifact or a link to the artifact is based upon whether the artifact, in a prioritized list, is above or below a variable threshold.
18. The cloud transfer service system of claim 10, wherein a batch size is dynamically determined based on semantic relevance and importance of the artifact relative to the plurality of queued artifacts.
</claims>
</document>
