<document>

<filing_date>
2013-12-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B8/00,A61B8/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VOLCANO CORPORATION
PHILIPS IMAGE GUIDED THERAPY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAIR, ANUJA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50881704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for non-invasive tissue characterization
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a non-invasive system for determining tissue composition. The system comprises an imaging system with a non-invasive probe, a signal analyzer, and a correlation processor. The probe includes active imaging components for emitting energy and collecting imaging data including reflected signals from an object of interest. The signal analyzer analyzes the imaging data and determines one or more signal properties from the reflected signals. The correlation processor then associates the one or more signal properties to pre-determined tissue signal properties of different tissue components through a pattern recognition technique wherein the pre-determined tissue signal properties are embodied in a database, and identifies a tissue component of the object based on the pattern recognition technique.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining tissue composition, the system comprising: an imaging system with a non-invasive probe with a plurality of active imaging components configured for emitting energy and collecting imaging data including reflected signals from an object of interest back to the probe, the plurality of active imaging components comprising a first active imaging component arranged to emit the energy to interact with the object at a first angle of incidence relative to a longitudinal axis of the object, wherein the imaging system is further configured to: determine the first angle of incidence; and obtain the reflected signals, wherein the reflected signals are generated in response to the probe emitting the energy that interacts with the object at the first angle of incidence; a signal analyzer configured to analyze the imaging data to determine one or more tissue signal properties associated with the reflected signals; and a correlation processor configured to: receive the first angle of incidence from the imaging system; retrieve, from a database, pre-determined tissue signal properties based on the received first angle of incidence; perform tissue component identification of the object through at least one of: correlating the one or more tissue signal properties to the pre-determined tissue signal properties associated with the received first angle of incidence to generate a similarity measure and identifying a tissue component of the object based on the similarity measure; or classifying the tissue component of the object through implementing a pattern recognition technique on the one or more tissue signal properties and the received first angle of incidence.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system collects imaging data from more than one imaging modality, the signal analyzer is configured to analyze more than one type of imaging data to determine signal properties associated with each imaging modality, and the correlation processor is configured to identify the tissue component of the object based on matching the signal properties to pre-determined tissue signal properties of different tissue components.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the probe includes more than one imaging modality and is configured to collect imaging data via more than one imaging modality.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-determined tissue signal properties are embodied in the database as a classification tree having branch node conditions based on the pre-determined tissue signal properties and one or more leaf nodes that identify a tissue component.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the correlation processor is configured to traverse the classification tree to a leaf node based on the pattern recognition technique of comparing the one or more tissue signal properties from the reflected signals to the branch node conditions.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-determined tissue signal properties are embodied in the database as an artificial neural network having one or more nodes that identify a tissue component.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the pre-determined tissue signal properties are embodied in the database as a regression tree having branch node conditions based on the pre-determined tissue signal properties and one or more leaf nodes that identify a tissue component.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the pattern recognition technique used by the correlation processor includes a random forest classifier for classifying the tissue component of the object.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more tissue signal properties includes at least one of: one or more spectral properties, one or more wavelet decomposition properties, one or more curvelet decomposition properties, and one or more filter coefficients.
10. The system of claim 1, further including secondary parameters embodied in the database, the secondary parameters each associated with particular pre-determined tissue signal properties, wherein the correlation processor uses the secondary parameters to more accurately associate the one or more tissue signal properties to the pre-determined tissue signal properties associated with the secondary parameters.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the secondary parameters comprise at least one of: a body-mass index of a patient, a frequency employed by the active imaging components of the probe, a pre-existing health condition of the patient.
12. The system of claim 1, further including a segmentation logic configured to determine borders of the object from the reflected signals.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the signal analyzer selectively analyzes substantially only the imaging data within the borders of the object.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-invasive probe is configured to collect ultrasound data with a plurality of transducers.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the imaging system further includes a diagnostic logic for generating an assessment as to a health condition of the object based on the tissue component of the object identified.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the active imaging components are operable to emit energy at an oblique angle of incidence relative the longitudinal axis of the object and wherein the correlation processor is further configured to select the pre-determined tissue signal properties from among the database based on the oblique angle of incidence.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the active imaging components are operable to emit energy at more than one angle of incidence relative the longitudinal axis of the object, wherein the correlation processor further configured to retrieve the pre-determined tissue signal properties from the database associated with emitted energy at the first angle of incidence and a second angle of incidence relative to the longitudinal axis of the object and associated with a second active imaging component of the plurality of active imaging components, wherein the first active imaging component is different from the second active imaging component, and wherein the first angle of incidence is different from the second angle of incidence.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein first active imaging component associated with the first angle of incidence and the second active imaging component associated with the second angle of incidence are activated simultaneously.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the active imaging components are activated simultaneously.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the active imaging components are activated sequentially.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the active imaging components operate at different frequencies.
22. A method of identifying one or more tissue components of an object associated with a patient, the method comprising: receiving, at an imaging system, reflected signals from a non-invasive probe scanning the object from a location external to the object, wherein the reflected signals are received in response to energy emitted from a plurality of active imaging components of the probe to the object, wherein the plurality of active imaging components comprises a first active imaging component arranged to emit the energy to interact with the object at a first angle of incidence relative to a longitudinal axis of the object; determining, by the imaging system, the first angle of incidence; analyzing the reflected signals to determine one or more tissue signal properties associated with the reflected signals that correspond to the energy that interacts with the object at the first angle of incidence; receiving, by a correlation processor, the first angle of incidence from the imaging system; retrieving from a database, by the correlation processor, pre-determined tissue signal properties based on the received first angle of incidence, performing, by the correlation processor, tissue component identification of the object through at least one of: correlating the one or more tissue signal properties to the pre-determined tissue signal properties associated with the received first angle of incidence to generate a similarity measure and identifying a tissue component of the object based on the similarity measure; or classifying one or more tissue components of the object through implementing a pattern recognition technique on the one or more tissue signal properties and the received first angle of incidence.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the pre-determined tissue signal properties comprise branch node conditions based on the pre-determined tissue signal properties and one or more leaf nodes identifying a type of tissue component.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the reflected signals include a plurality of backscattered scan lines and the correlating step includes correlating signal properties for a plurality of segments from the plurality of backscattered scan lines.
25. The method of claim 22, wherein the receiving the reflected signals step includes collecting reflected signals by a plurality of imaging modalities.
26. The method of claim 22, wherein correlating the one or more tissue signal properties to pre-determined tissue signal properties of tissue components of an object similar to the scanned object includes selecting the pre-determined tissue signal properties based on secondary parameters associated with the object.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the receiving the reflected signals step includes receiving reflected signals from the non-invasive probe scanning the object from more than one angle of incidence relative to the longitudinal axis of the object, and wherein the angles of incidence comprise secondary parameters.
28. The method of claim 26, wherein the secondary parameters comprise at least one of: a body-mass index of the patient, a frequency employed by the active imaging components of the probe, a pre-existing health condition of the patient.
29. The method of claim 27, further comprising determining isotropic or anisotropic properties associated with the tissue component based on the more than one angle of incidence.
</claims>
</document>
