<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/10,H01P3/123,H01P3/13,H01P3/16,H01P5/08,H01P5/18,H04B3/38,H04B3/52,H04B3/56
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66697369
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatus for bidirectional exchange of electromagnetic waves
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a first waveguide system that includes a transmitter that facilitates generation of an electromagnetic wave, and a directional coupler that facilitates inducing propagation of the electromagnetic wave along a transmission medium. The electromagnetic wave can be directed to a second waveguide system coupled to the transmission medium, and propagates along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating, by a transmitter of a first waveguide system, a first electromagnetic wave; inducing, by the first waveguide system, propagation of the first electromagnetic wave at an outer surface of a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic wave is directed to a second waveguide system coupled to the transmission medium; and receiving, via a receiver of the first waveguide system, a second electromagnetic wave propagating along the transmission medium, wherein the second electromagnetic wave is directed to the first waveguide system, wherein the second electromagnetic wave is generated by the second waveguide system, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave operate at a same operating frequency, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium at a same time, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, and wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to perform a full-duplex exchange of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide system comprises a directional wave inducer to induce propagation of the first electromagnetic wave at the outer surface of the transmission medium.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the directional wave inducer is configured to at least reduce coupling of the second electromagnetic wave onto the directional wave inducer.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the directional wave inducer and the receiver are coupled to an echo canceler to remove a residual copy of the first electromagnetic wave received with the second electromagnetic wave.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the echo canceler comprises a subtractor coupled to the directional wave inducer and the receiver.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the directional wave inducer is coupled to a termination to at least reduce a reflection of the first electromagnetic wave.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the same operating frequency of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave corresponds to a shared frequency channel.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the transmission medium comprises a power line.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to perform the full-duplex exchange of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave by using wave mode division multiplexing.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating, by the transmitter of the first waveguide system, a reference signal.
11. A first waveguide system communicating with a second waveguide system, the first waveguide system comprising: a transmitter that facilitates generation of a first electromagnetic wave; a directional wave inducer that facilitates coupling and propagation of the first electromagnetic wave at an outer surface of a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic wave is directed to the second waveguide system coupled to the transmission medium, wherein the directional wave inducer is coupled to a termination to at least reduce a reflection of the first electromagnetic wave; and a receiver that facilitates receiving a second electromagnetic wave propagating along the transmission medium, wherein the second electromagnetic wave is generated by the second waveguide system, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave operate at a same operating frequency, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium at a same time, and wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path.
12. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the transmitter generates a reference signal.
13. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the directional wave inducer is configured to at least reduce coupling of the second electromagnetic wave onto the directional wave inducer.
14. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the directional wave inducer and the receiver are coupled to an echo canceler to remove a residual copy of the first electromagnetic wave received with the second electromagnetic wave.
15. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the same operating frequency of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave corresponds to a shared frequency channel.
16. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured for full-duplex exchange of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave.
17. The first waveguide system of claim 11, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to exchange the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave by using wave mode division multiplexing.
18. A first waveguide system communicating with a second waveguide system, the first waveguide system comprising: a transmitter that facilitates generation of a first electromagnetic wave; and a directional wave inducer that facilitates inducing propagation of the first electromagnetic wave at an outer surface of a transmission medium, wherein the first electromagnetic wave is directed to the second waveguide system coupled to the transmission medium, wherein the second waveguide system induces propagation of a second electromagnetic wave along the transmission medium that is directed to the first waveguide system, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave operate at a same operating frequency, wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium at a same time, and wherein the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to perform a full-duplex exchange of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave.
19. The first waveguide system of claim 18, wherein the directional wave inducer and a receiver of the first waveguide system are coupled to an echo canceler to remove a residual copy of the first electromagnetic wave received by the receiver.
20. The first waveguide system of claim 18, wherein the first waveguide system and the second waveguide system are configured to perform the full-duplex exchange of the first electromagnetic wave and the second electromagnetic wave generated by the second waveguide system by using wave mode division multiplexing.
</claims>
</document>
