<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E04B2/72,F21S8/00,F21V21/096,F21Y115/10,H01F38/14,H02J50/10,H04B5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RESILIENCE MAGNUM IP
</assignee>

<inventors>
COZEAN, RONALD
ROSEN, STEVEN
ATTARIAN, ELIE
HORVATH, MEGAN
ALLEN, ERIC
MORDETZKY, DAVID EDWARD
PYROS, ANTHONY JOHN
ELWOOD, JOHN
CHANG, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65896036
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Lighting drywall
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for smart light and lighting drywall are provided. A system and/or method can comprise a smart light comprising at least one light bulb; and a lighting drywall comprising: a power source; a mesh configured to provide power from the power source using a wireless power transfer mechanism; wherein the smart light is removably attachable to a plurality of locations on the lighting drywall and configured to receive the power using the wireless power transfer mechanism at respective locations of the plurality of locations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A lighting drywall sheet comprising: a power source; a mesh configured to provide power from the power source to a device attached to a surface of the lighting drywall sheet using a wireless power transfer mechanism; and at least one connector, located at an edge of the lighting drywall sheet, configured to physically connect to at least one other connector of at least one other lighting drywall sheet and electrically connect the mesh with at least one other mesh of the at least one other lighting drywall sheet to form a continuous mesh.
2. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 1, further comprising: at least one component configured to provide a magnetic attachment to the device.
3. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 2, wherein the at least one component is at least one magnet embedded within the lighting drywall sheet.
4. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 2, wherein the at least one component is a surface of the lighting drywall sheet that provides the magnetic attachment to at least one magnet of the device.
5. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 2, wherein the at least one component is configured to enable: attachment of the device at a first location on the lighting drywall sheey and provide the power to the device; removal of the device from the first location on the lighting drywall sheet; and attachment of the device at a second location on the lighting drywall sheet and provide the power to the device.
6. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 1, wherein the device is a smart light.
7. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 1, further comprising: one or more instruments; a memory that stores computer executable components; and a processor that executes the computer executable components stored in the memory, wherein the computer executable components comprise: a drywall controller component configured to employ the one or more instruments to control an operation of the device.
8. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 1, wherein the drywall controller component is further configured to: employ the one or more instruments to determine one or more characteristics of an environment in which lighting drywall sheet is installed; generate one or more objectives for the lighting drywall sheet based on the one or more characteristics and one or more capabilities of the lighting drywall sheet; and configure at least one setting of at least one parameter of the lighting drywall sheet to achieve the one or more objectives.
9. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 8, wherein the drywall controller component is further configured to: monitor the one or more characteristics of the environment using the one or more instruments; determine one or more actions to perform to achieve the one or more objectives; execute the one or more actions.
10. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 9, wherein the one or more actions comprises coordination with at least one other lighting drywall sheet to execute the one or more actions.
11. The lighting drywall sheet of claim 1, further comprising: a laser light emitting diode (LED); and a surface configured as an optical waveguide for light projected from the laser LED to enable illumination of an entirety of the surface.
12. A system comprising: a smart light comprising at least one light bulb; and a lighting drywall sheet comprising: a power source, a mesh configured to provide power from the power source using a wireless power transfer mechanism, and at least one connector, located at an edge of the lighting drywall sheet, configured to physically connect to at least one other connector of at least one other lighting drywall sheet and electrically connect the mesh with at least one other mesh of the at least one other lighting drywall sheet to form a continuous mesh; wherein the smart light is removably attachable to a plurality of locations on the lighting drywall sheet and configured to receive the power using the wireless power transfer mechanism at respective locations of the plurality of locations.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the smart light further comprises at least one magnet.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the lighting drywall sheet further comprises at least one other magnet configured to provide magnetic attraction to the at least one magnet of the smart light.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the lighting drywall sheet further comprises at least one surface configured to provide a magnetic attachment to the at least one magnet of the smart light.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein: the smart light further comprises a smart light controller component configured to control operations of the smart light; and the lighting drywall sheet further comprises a drywall controller component configured to control operations of the lighting drywall sheet.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the smart light controller component and drywall controller component are further configured to communicate with each other using the mesh.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the smart light controller component and drywall controller component are further configured to coordinate their respective operations.
19. A method comprising: attaching, via a first connector located at a first edge of a first lighting drywall sheet, the first lighting drywall sheet to a second lighting drywall sheet at a second connector located at a second edge of the second lighting drywall sheet, where the attachment of the first connector to the second connector physically connects the first lighting drywall sheet to the second lighting drywall sheet and electrically connects a first mesh embedded within the first lighting drywall sheet to a second mesh embedded within the second lighting drywall sheet to form a continuous mesh; attaching, via a magnetic attachment mechanism, a smart light to a first location on the first lighting drywall sheet; powering, via the continuous mesh embedded within the first lighting drywall sheet and the second lighting drywall sheet, the smart light at the first location using a wireless power transfer mechanism.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising; detaching, via the magnetic attachment mechanism, the smart light from the first location of the first lighting drywall sheet; attaching, via the magnetic attachment mechanism, the smart light to a second location on the second lighting drywall sheet; powering, via the continuous mesh, the smart light at the second location using the wireless power transfer mechanism.
</claims>
</document>
