<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F40/211,G06F40/284,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHHAYA, NIYATI HIMANSHU
SINGH, JAYA
CHAWLA, KUSHAL
GOYAL, TANYA
CHANDA, PROJJAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68097208
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Prediction of tone of interpersonal text communications
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for predicting a tone of a text communication using psycholinguistic features of the text communication. In some examples, a method may include generating a feature vector for a text communication using features, including psycholinguistic features, extracted from the text communication, and predicting a tone of the text communication based on the feature vector. The tone is predicted by a trained prediction module that is trained using psycholinguistic features of text communications in a training set used to train the trained prediction module. The predicted tone is at least one of a predicted measure of frustration, a predicted measure of formality, and a predicted measure of politeness.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method to predict tone of a text communication, the method comprising: receiving, by a tone prediction algorithm, a text communication for which to predict a tone, the text communication comprising a plurality of words; identifying an analyzed subset of the plurality of words, wherein each word in the analyzed subset is included in a designated lexicon; for each word in the analyzed subset, extracting from the designated lexicon, a quantity of psycholinguistic values, each of which is associated with a corresponding psycholinguistic feature; for each psycholinguistic feature, calculating an aggregate psycholinguistic value corresponding to a sum of the psycholinguistic values associated with the psycholinguistic feature; generating, by a feature computation module, a feature vector for the text communication, wherein the feature vector has a number of dimensions that is greater than or equal to the quantity of psycholinguistic values extracted from the designated lexicon for each word in the analyzed subset, wherein each of at least some of the dimensions of the feature vector correspond to one of the corresponding psycholinguistic features, and wherein the feature vector comprises the aggregate psycholinguistic values for each of the psycholinguistic features; predicting, by a first trained prediction module, a numerical score for a first tone dimension of the text communication based on the feature vector, wherein the first trained prediction module is trained to quantify the first tone dimension using the psycholinguistic features as extracted from text communications in a training set; and predicting, by a second trained prediction module, a numerical score for a second tone dimension of the text communication based on the feature vector, wherein the second trained prediction module is trained to quantify the second tone dimension using the psycholinguistic features as extracted from text communications in the training set, wherein the numerical scores for the first and second tone dimensions characterize the tone of the text communication.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity psycholinguistic values is at least three, and the psycholinguistic features corresponding to the at least three psycholinguistic values include valence, arousal, and dominance.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the designated lexicon is Warriner's lexicon.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity psycholinguistic values is at least eight, and the psycholinguistic features corresponding to the at least eight psycholinguistic values include joy, fear, anger, sadness, anticipation, trust, disgust, and surprise.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the quantity psycholinguistic values is at least five, and the psycholinguistic features corresponding to the at least five psycholinguistic values include positivity, engagement, relationship, meaning, and accomplishment.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of lexical features, syntactic features, derived features, and formality features are also used in generating the feature vector.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first and second tone dimensions are different dimensions selected from a group consisting of frustration, formality, and politeness.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the trained prediction modules is a regressor.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of the trained prediction modules is a classifier.
10. A computer program product including one or more non-transitory machine readable mediums encoded with instruction that when executed by one or more processors cause a process to be carried out to predict tone of a text communication, the process comprising: receiving a text communication for which to predict a tone, the text communication comprising a plurality of words; identifying an analyzed subset of the plurality of words, wherein each word in the analyzed subset is included in a designated lexicon; for each word in the analyzed subset, extracting from the designated lexicon, a quantity of psycholinguistic values, each of which is associated with a corresponding psycholinguistic feature; for each psycholinguistic feature, calculating an aggregate psycholinguistic value corresponding to a sum of the psycholinguistic values associated with the psycholinguistic feature; generating, by a feature computation module, a feature vector for the text communication, wherein the feature vector has a number of dimensions that is greater than or equal to the quantity of psycholinguistic values extracted from the designated lexicon for each word in the analyzed subset, wherein each of at least some of the dimensions of the feature vector correspond to one of the corresponding psycholinguistic features, and wherein the feature vector comprises the aggregate psycholinguistic values for each of the psycholinguistic features; and predicting, by a first trained prediction module, a numerical score for a first tone dimension of the text communication based on the feature vector, wherein the first trained prediction module is trained to quantify the first tone dimension using the psycholinguistic features as extracted from text communications in a training set, wherein the numerical score for the first tone dimension characterizes the tone of the text communication.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the quantity psycholinguistic values is at least two, and the psycholinguistic features corresponding to the at least two psycholinguistic values include at least one of valence, arousal, dominance, joy, fear, anger, sadness, anticipation, trust, disgust, surprise, positivity, engagement, relationship, meaning, and accomplishment.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein at least one of lexical features, syntactic features, derived features, and formality features are also used in generating the feature vector.
13. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the first tone dimension is selected from a group consisting of frustration, formality, and politeness.
14. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the first trained prediction module is a regressor.
15. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the process further comprises predicting, by a second trained prediction module, a numerical score for a second tone dimension of the text communication based on the feature vector, wherein the second trained prediction module is trained to quantify the second tone dimension using the psycholinguistic features as extracted from text communications in the training set, wherein the first and second tone dimensions characterize the tone of the text communication, and wherein the first and second tone dimensions are different tone dimensions selected from a group consisting of frustration, formality, and politeness.
16. A computer-implemented method to generate training samples for training a tone prediction module to predict tone of a text communication, the method comprising: receiving a text communication comprising a plurality of words; assigning a plurality of labels to the text communication, each of the labels representing a degree of a tone dimension reflected in the text communication; identifying an analyzed subset of the plurality of words, wherein each word in the analyzed subset is included in a designated lexicon; for each word in the analyzed subset, extracting from the designated lexicon, a quantity of psycholinguistic values, each of which is associated with a corresponding psycholinguistic feature; for each psycholinguistic feature, calculating an aggregate psycholinguistic value corresponding to a sum of the psycholinguistic values associated with the psycholinguistic feature; generating a feature vector for the text communication, wherein the feature vector has a number of dimensions that is greater than or equal to the quantity of psycholinguistic values extracted from the designated lexicon for each word in the analyzed subset, wherein each of at least some of the dimensions of the feature vector correspond to one of the corresponding a set of psycholinguistic features, and wherein the feature vector comprises the aggregate psycholinguistic values for each of the psycholinguistic features; and generating a training sample from the text communication, the training sample including the feature vector and one of the plurality of labels; wherein the plurality of labels characterize a tone of the received text communication.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the quantity psycholinguistic values is at least two, and the psycholinguistic features corresponding to the at least two psycholinguistic values include at least one of valence, arousal, dominance, joy, fear, anger, sadness, anticipation, trust, disgust, surprise, positivity, engagement, relationship, meaning, and accomplishment.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein at least one of lexical features, syntactic features, derived features, and formality features are also used in generating the feature vector.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein each of the plurality of labels is acquired by crowdsourcing.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein a first one of the labels indicates a degree of frustration, a second one of the labels indicates a degree of formality, and a third one of the labels indicates a degree of politeness.
</claims>
</document>
