<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08B13/196,G08B29/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALARM.COM
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUTZ, DAVID JAMES
MADDEN, DONALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65895050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for preventing false alarms due to display images
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a storage device, for preventing false alarms due to display images. In one aspect, a monitoring system is disclosed that includes a processor and a computer storage media storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations. The operations can include obtaining, by the monitoring system, image data that depicts a portion of a property, determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data depicts an object, based on determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data depicts an object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether the depicted object is located within an exclusionary region of the property, and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that the depicted object is not located within an exclusionary region of the property, triggering, by the monitoring system, an event based on the image data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitoring system, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices, the one or more storage devices storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, image data that depicts a portion of a property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that at least a portion of the depiction of the object is located outside of the exclusionary region of the property, triggering, by the monitoring system, an event based on the image data.
2. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein data identifying the exclusionary region was generated by the monitoring system based on an identification, by the monitoring system, that a portion of a different image data depicts a picture of an object on a wall, a display of a television, or a window.
3. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein boundaries of the exclusionary region are determined, by the monitoring system, based on a transition of first visual characteristics of portions of a wall that surround each respective side of the picture of the object on the wall, the display of the television, or the window to second visual characteristics of respective edges of the picture of the object on the wall, the display of the television, or the window.
4. The monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether of the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property, ignoring, by the monitoring system, the different image data, wherein ignoring the different image data includes a determination, by the monitoring system, to not trigger an event based on the different image data.
5. The monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that a portion of the depiction of the object is located within an exclusionary region of the property and a portion of the depiction of the object is located outside of the exclusionary region, triggering, by the monitoring system, an event based on the different image data.
6. The monitoring system of claim 1, the operations further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that an object is not depicted by the different image data, ignoring, by the monitoring system, the second image data, wherein ignoring the different image data includes a determination, by the monitoring system, to not trigger an event based on the different image data.
7. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes a depiction of an object comprises: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that represents multiple different images that were captured before an image represented by the image data or after the image represented by the image data; and determining, by the monitoring system, whether the object moves into the exclusionary region or whether the object moves out of the exclusionary region based on the different image data.
8. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the image data include still image data or video image data.
9. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system includes a camera, a monitoring system control unit, or a monitoring application server.
10. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the monitoring system includes a camera, monitoring system control unit, and a monitoring application server.
11. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the object includes a human, a human with a package, a non-human animal, or a vehicle.
12. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the event includes one or more of an alarm event, powering on of one or more connected lightbulbs located at the property, or recording sounds at the property using one or more microphones located at the property.
13. The monitoring system of claim 1, wherein the portion of the property is an indoor portion of the property or an outdoor portion of the property.
14. A method comprising: obtaining, by a monitoring system, image data that depicts a portion of a property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that at least a portion of the depiction of the object is located outside of the exclusionary region of the property, triggering, by the monitoring system, an event based on the image data.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein data identifying the exclusionary region was generated by the monitoring system based on an identification, by the monitoring system, that a portion of a different image data depicts a picture of an object on a wall, a display of a television, or a window.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein boundaries of the exclusionary region are determined, by the monitoring system, based on a transition of first visual characteristics of portions of a wall that surround each respective side of the picture of the object on the wall, the display of the television, or the window to second visual characteristics of respective edges of the picture of the object on the wall, the display of the television, or the window.
17. The method of claim 14, the method further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether an entirety of the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that an entirety of depiction of the object is located within an exclusionary region of the property, ignoring, by the monitoring system, the different image data, wherein ignoring the different image data includes a determination, by the monitoring system, to not trigger an event based on the different image data.
18. The method of claim 14, the method further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes a depiction of an object; in response to determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data includes the depiction of the object, determining, by the monitoring system, whether the depiction of the object is located entirely within an exclusionary region of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that a portion of the depiction of the object is located within an exclusionary region of the property and a portion of the depiction of the object is located outside of the exclusionary region, triggering, by the monitoring system, an event based on the different image data.
19. The method of claim 14, the method further comprising: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that depicts a portion of the property; and based on determining, by the monitoring system, that the different image data does not include a depiction of an object, ignoring, by the monitoring system, the different image data, wherein ignoring the different image data includes a determination, by the monitoring system, to not trigger an event based on the different image data.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein determining, by the monitoring system, that the image data includes a depiction of an object comprises: obtaining, by the monitoring system, different image data that represents multiple different images that were captured before an image represented by the image data or after the image represented by the image data; and determining, by the component of the monitoring system, whether the depiction of the object moves into the exclusionary region or whether the depiction of the object moves out of the exclusionary region based on the different image data.
21. The method of claim 14, wherein the monitoring system includes a camera, a monitoring system control unit, or a monitoring application server.
22. The method of claim 14, wherein the monitoring system includes a camera, monitoring system control unit, and a monitoring application server.
23. The method of claim 14, wherein the object includes a human, a human with a package, a non-human animal, or a vehicle.
24. The method of claim 14, wherein the event includes one or more of an alarm event, powering on of one or more connected lightbulbs located at the property, or recording sounds at the property using one or more microphones located at the property.
25. The method of claim 14, wherein the portion of the property is an indoor portion of the property or an outdoor portion of the property.
26. The monitoring system of claim 2, wherein the exclusionary region comprises a two-dimensional area within a field of view of a camera, the area being defined by boundaries that envelope the picture of the object on the wall, the display of the television, or the window.
</claims>
</document>
