<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N1/28,G01N21/17,G01N33/48,H04N5/225,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BONRAYBIO COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANG, CHIA-WEI
HSU, CHENG-TENG
CHI, YU-CHIAO
CHANG, CHIH-PIN
HUANG, KUANG-LI
Wang, Chiung-Han
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68054954
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis accuracy improvement in automated testing apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments disclose a device for testing biological specimen. The device includes a receiving mechanism to receive a carrier. The carrier includes a holding area that carries or has been exposed to the biological specimen. The device includes a camera module arranged to capture imagery of the holding area. The camera module includes an focusing motor operable to adjust a focal point of the camera. The device also includes a processor that is configured to utilize the camera module to determine, based on operations of the focusing motor, a volumetric property of the holding area and perform a set of analytic processes on at least a portion of the captured imagery of the holding area to determine one or more properties of the biological specimen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for testing a biological specimen, the apparatus comprising: a receiving mechanism to receive a carrier, wherein the carrier includes a holding area, wherein the holding area is configured to or has been exposed to the biological specimen; a camera module arranged to capture imagery of the holding area, the camera module including an focusing motor operable to adjust a focal point of the camera; a processor that is configured to utilize the camera module to: determine, based on operations of the focusing motor, a volumetric property of the holding area; and perform a set of analytic processes on at least a portion of the captured imagery of the holding area to determine one or more properties of the biological specimen, wherein the one or more properties of the biological specimen receive adjustment by the processor based on the determined volumetric property of the holding area; and a casing, wherein said receiving mechanism, said camera module, and said processor are all enclosed within the casing, wherein a form factor of the casing is smaller than 27,000 cubic centimeters.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine the volumetric property of the holding area based on operating the focusing motor to focus on different locations of the holding area.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to estimate a depth of the holding area in determining the volumetric property of the holding area.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to perform a calculation to convert the estimated depth of the holding area into the volumetric property of the holding area.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine the volumetric property of the holding area by: causing the camera to focus, as a first focal point, on either one of a cover or the holding area; measuring a first depth for the first focal point; causing the camera to focus, as a second focal point, on the other one of the cover or the holding area; and measuring a second depth for the second focal point.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein each of the cover and the holding area includes a visual indicium enabling the camera to focus.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein a bottom surface of the cover includes the visual indicium.
8. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the visual indicium is placed at a surface of the holding area that is in contact with or has been exposed to the biological specimen.
9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the visual indicium is microscopic in size.
10. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first and second depths are measured based on operations of the focusing motor.
11. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the first and second depths are measured based on how many steps the focusing motor operates in order to reach from a default point to the first and second focal points, respectively.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein a total travel available for the focal point adjustment is predefined, and wherein a total number of available steps corresponds to the total travel available for the focal point adjustment.
13. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the focusing motor includes a voice coil motor (VCM), a ceramic piezoelectric actuator, a focusing mechanism for a monocular camera, or a servo motor mechanism for a microscope.
14. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the one or more properties of the biological specimen include concentration of the biological specimen.
15. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the biological specimen is semen.
16. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the volumetric property of the holding area is determined during a configuration phase.
17. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the analytic processes on the biological specimen is performed during normal use.
18. An apparatus for testing a biological specimen, the apparatus comprising: a receiving mechanism to receive a carrier, wherein the carrier includes a holding area, wherein the holding area is configured to or has been exposed to the biological specimen; a camera module arranged to capture imagery of the holding area, the camera module including an focusing motor operable to adjust a focal point of the camera; and a processor that is configured to utilize the camera module to: determine, based on operations of the focusing motor, a volumetric property of the holding area; and perform a set of analytic processes on at least a portion of the captured imagery of the holding area to determine one or more properties of the biological specimen, wherein the one or more properties of the biological specimen receive adjustment by the processor based on the determined volumetric property of the holding area, wherein the processor is configured to estimate a depth of the holding area in determining the volumetric property of the holding area, and wherein the processor is further configured to perform a calculation to convert the estimated depth of the holding area into the volumetric property of the holding area.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the processor is configured to determine the volumetric property of the holding area based on operating the focusing motor to focus on different locations of the holding area.
20. An apparatus for testing a biological specimen, the apparatus comprising: a receiving mechanism to receive a carrier, wherein the carrier includes a holding area, wherein the holding area is configured to or has been exposed to the biological specimen; a camera module arranged to capture imagery of the holding area, the camera module including an focusing motor operable to adjust a focal point of the camera; and a processor that is configured to utilize the camera module to: determine, based on operations of the focusing motor, a volumetric property of the holding area; and perform a set of analytic processes on at least a portion of the captured imagery of the holding area to determine one or more properties of the biological specimen, wherein the one or more properties of the biological specimen receive adjustment by the processor based on the determined volumetric property of the holding area, and wherein the processor is configured to determine the volumetric property of the holding area by: causing the camera to focus, as a first focal point, on either one of a cover or the holding area; measuring a first depth for the first focal point; causing the camera to focus, as a second focal point, on the other one of the cover or the holding area; and measuring a second depth for the second focal point.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein each of the cover and the holding area includes a visual indicium enabling the camera to focus.
22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the first and second depths are measured based on operations of the focusing motor.
</claims>
</document>
