<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B41/00,E21B43/16,E21B43/25,E21B49/00,E21B49/08,G06F3/0482,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
STEINER, MATHIAS B.
GIRO, RONALDO
NEUMANN BARROS FERREIRA, RODRIGO
DE CARVALHO MAGALHAES, ROMULO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68464781
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Chemical EOR materials database architecture and method for screening EOR materials
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes: performing a machine learning process using information for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) materials to be used for an EOR process on a defined oil reservoir; determining EOR materials suitable for a condition of the oil reservoir; listing the EOR materials; and outputting an indication of the EOR materials. The materials comprise a first complex fluid to be introduced into the oil reservoir. Determining the EOR materials suitable for the condition is based on similarities between a first set of vector values for the first complex fluid, a second set of vector values for a second complex fluid already in the oil reservoir, and geological data, each of the vector values of the first set being defined by parameters of the first complex fluid and each of the vector values of the second set being defined by parameters of the second complex fluid and the geological data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: performing a machine learning process using one or more sources of information for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) materials to be used for an EOR process on a defined oil reservoir; determining one or more EOR materials suitable for a specific condition of the defined oil reservoir; listing the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition; and outputting an indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process; where the EOR materials comprise a first complex fluid to be introduced into the defined oil reservoir; and where determining the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition is based on similarities between a first set of vector values for the first complex fluid, at least one second set of vector values for a second complex fluid already in the defined oil reservoir, and geological data, each of the vector values of the first set being defined by parameters associated with the first complex fluid and each of the vector values of the second set being defined by parameters of the second complex fluid and the geological data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising converting the indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process into information defined to cause one or more actuators or one or more mixers or both to provide the one or more EOR materials at their corresponding concentrations at the defined oil reservoir for use by the EOR process.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising allowing a user to modify EOR efficiencies associated with the EOR materials from the listing of the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition.
4. The method of claim 1, where the first complex fluid is an injection fluid to be injected into the defined oil reservoir and comprises one or more of a water, brine, polymer, surfactant, and nanoparticles, and the second complex fluid comprises one or more of oil, water, salts, and gas.
5. The method of claim 4, where determining the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition is further based on geological data.
6. The method of claim 1, where performing a machine learning process using one or more sources of information for EOR materials comprises obtaining information from a database.
7. The method of claim 6, where obtaining information from a database further comprises obtaining provenance information from one or more of an experiment, a simulation, production data, scientific papers, and patents.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising running a simulation based on the outputted indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process.
9. The method of claim 1, where outputting an indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process comprises displaying the indication and the corresponding concentration on a graphical user interface.
10. A computer system, comprising: one or more memories having computer readable code; one or more processors, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to perform the following: performing a machine learning process using one or more sources of information for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) materials to be used for an EOR process on a defined oil reservoir; determining one or more EOR materials suitable for a specific condition of the defined oil reservoir; listing the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition; and outputting an indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process; where the EOR materials comprise a first complex fluid to be introduced into the defined oil reservoir; and where determining the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition is based on similarities between a first set of vector values comprising the first complex fluid, at least one second set of vector values for a second complex fluid already in the defined oil reservoir, and geological data, each of the vector values of the first set being defined by parameters associated with the first complex fluid and each of the vector values of the second set being defined by parameters of the second complex fluid and the geological data.
11. The computer system of claim 10, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to perform the following: converting the indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process into information defined to cause one or more actuators or one or more mixers or both to provide the one or more EOR materials at their corresponding concentrations at the defined oil reservoir for use by the EOR process.
12. The computer system of claim 10, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to perform the following: allowing a user to modify EOR efficiencies associated with the EOR materials from the listing of the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition.
13. The computer system of claim 10, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to obtain information from a database.
14. The computer system of claim 13, where causing the computer system to obtain information from a database further comprises causing the computer system to obtain provenance information from one or more of an experiment, a simulation, production data, scientific papers, and patents.
15. The computer system of claim 10, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to perform the following: searching a world-wide web for EOR materials; assigning properties to EOR materials found during the searching; establishing reservoir parameters; establishing effectiveness of EOR materials based on the reservoir parameters, the EOR materials found for each of multiple options, and the properties of the EOR materials found for each of the multiple options; and defining, based on the established effectiveness, EOR efficiencies for the EOR materials, each EOR efficiency proportional to an incremental oil production after the EOR process is employed using a corresponding EOR material for a reservoir with the established reservoir parameters.
16. The computer system of claim 10, where the one or more processors, in response to retrieving and executing the computer readable code, cause the computer system to perform the following: defining a concentration for each component of the first complex fluid; assigning properties to the first complex fluid; defining fluid properties of the second complex fluid; defining physical, chemical, and topological parameters of rock associated with the defined oil reservoir; establishing an effectiveness of the first complex fluid relative to the second complex fluid; and defining, based on the established effectiveness, EOR efficiencies for the first complex fluid, each EOR efficiency proportional to an incremental oil production after the EOR process is employed using a corresponding first complex fluid for a reservoir with the established reservoir parameters.
17. The computer system of claim 10, where the defined oil reservoir is defined based on information comprising physical and chemical conditions at the oil reservoir.
18. The computer system of claim 10, where the first complex fluid is an injection fluid to be injected into the defined oil reservoir and comprises one or more of a water, brine, polymer, surfactant, and nanoparticles, and the second complex fluid comprises one or more of oil, water, salts, and gas.
19. The computer system of claim 10, where determining the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition is further based on geological data.
20. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computer system to cause the computer system to perform operations comprising: performing a machine learning process using one or more sources of information for enhanced oil recovery (EOR) materials to be used for an EOR process on a defined oil reservoir; determining one or more EOR materials suitable for a specific condition of the defined oil reservoir; listing the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition; and outputting an indication of the one or more EOR materials and their corresponding concentrations to be used in the EOR process; where the EOR materials comprise a first complex fluid to be introduced into the defined oil reservoir; and where determining the one or more EOR materials suitable for the specific condition is based on similarities between a first set of vector values comprising the first complex fluid, at least one second set of vector values for a second complex fluid already in the defined oil reservoir, and geological data, each of the vector values of the first set being defined by parameters associated with the first complex fluid and each of the vector values of the second set being defined by parameters of the second complex fluid and the geological data.
</claims>
</document>
