<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G11B27/32,G11B27/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MAFERA, PAUL F.
BESTOR, DANIEL R.
LUO, YANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70458960
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Device, system and method for determining incident objects in secondary video
</title>

<abstract>
A device, system and method for determining incident objects in secondary video is provided. An electronic device: plays, at a display screen, a primary video from a primary video source located at a primary location; determines an incident type associated with the primary video; determines incident object(s) associated with the incident type; detects a particular incident object in a secondary video from a secondary video source located at a secondary location within a threshold distance of the primary location, the particular incident object appearing in the secondary video within a threshold time period from a current playback time of the primary video; determines a relative direction of a location of the particular incident object from the primary location; and controls the display screen to render a particular visual indicator of the particular incident object over or adjacent the primary video at a position indicative of the relative direction.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising: playing, using a controller of an electronic device, at a display screen, a primary video from a primary video source located at a primary location; determining, using the controller, an incident type associated with the primary video; determining, using the controller, one or more incident objects associated with the incident type; detecting, using the controller, a particular incident object, of the one or more incident objects, in a secondary video from a secondary video source located at a secondary location within a threshold distance of the primary location, the particular incident object appearing in the secondary video within a threshold time period from a current playback time of the primary video; determining, using the controller, a relative direction of a location of the particular incident object from the primary location; controlling, using the controller, the display screen to render a particular visual indicator of the particular incident object over or adjacent the primary video at a position indicative of the relative direction; and while playing the primary video at the display screen, one or more of: tracking movement of the particular incident object in the secondary video as a function of time of the secondary video synchronized with the playing of the primary video; and modifying the position of the particular visual indicator in the primary video with the movement of the particular incident object in the secondary video; and determining, at a time synchronized with the playing of the primary video, that the particular incident object no longer appears in the secondary video; and responsively removing the particular visual indicator from over or adjacent the primary video.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to detecting an input activation of the particular visual indicator, replacing the primary video at the display screen with the secondary video, at a second playback time substantially synchronized with the current playback time of the primary video at which the input activation was received.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: controlling, using the controller, the display screen to render a second particular visual indicator over or adjacent the secondary video at a respective position indicative of the primary location of the primary video source relative to the secondary location.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: responsive to detecting a respective input activation of the second particular visual indicator, replacing the secondary video at the display screen with the primary video, at a third respective playback time substantially synchronized with the second playback time of the secondary video at which the respective input activation was received.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular incident object never appears in the primary video.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the secondary video is not being rendered at the display screen.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: controlling, using the controller, the display screen to render the primary video in a primary position; and controlling, using the controller, the display screen to render the secondary video in a secondary position, the secondary video having a smaller form factor at the display screen in the secondary position, relative to the primary video in the primary position.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: controlling, using the controller, the display screen to render the secondary video time-synchronized with the primary video.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the incident type associated with the primary video comprises one or more of: applying video analytics to the primary video; applying one or more machine learning algorithms to the primary video receiving input from an input device in communication with the controller; and retrieving the incident type from a computer-aided-dispatch record associated with one or more a user of the electronic device and the primary video.
10. An electronic device comprising: a controller in communication with a display screen, the controller configured to: play, at the display screen, a primary video from a primary video source located at a primary location; determine an incident type associated with the primary video; determine one or more incident objects associated with the incident type; detect a particular incident object, of the one or more incident objects, in a secondary video from a secondary video source located at a secondary location within a threshold distance of the primary location, the particular incident object appearing in the secondary video within a threshold time period from a current playback time of the primary video; determine a relative direction of a location of the particular incident object from the primary location; control the display screen to render a particular visual indicator of the particular incident object over or adjacent the primary video at a position indicative of the relative direction; and while playing the primary video at the display screen, one or more of: track movement of the particular incident object in the secondary video as a function of time of the secondary video synchronized with the playing of the primary video; and modify the position of the particular visual indicator in the primary video with the movement of the particular incident object in the secondary video; and determine, at a time synchronized with the playing of the primary video, that the particular incident object no longer appears in the secondary video; and responsively remove the particular visual indicator from over or adjacent the primary video.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to: responsive to detecting an input activation of the particular visual indicator, replace the primary video at the display screen with the secondary video, at a second playback time substantially synchronized with the current playback time of the primary video at which the input activation was received.
12. The electronic device of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: control the display screen to render a second particular visual indicator over or adjacent the secondary video at a respective position indicative of the primary location of the primary video source relative to the secondary location.
13. The electronic device of claim 12, wherein the controller is further configured to: responsive to detecting a respective input activation of the second particular visual indicator, replace the secondary video at the display screen with the primary video, at a third respective playback time substantially synchronized with the second playback time of the secondary video at which the respective input activation was received.
14. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to: control the display screen to render the primary video in a primary position, and control the display screen to render the secondary video in a secondary position, the secondary video having a smaller form factor at the display screen in the secondary position, relative to the primary video in the primary position.
15. The electronic device of claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to render the secondary video at the display screen time-synchronized with the primary video.
16. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to determine the incident type associated with the primary video by one or more of: applying video analytics to the primary video; applying one or more machine learning algorithms to the primary video receiving input from an input device in communication with the controller; and retrieving the incident type from a computer-aided-dispatch record associated with one or more a user of the electronic device and the primary video.
</claims>
</document>
