<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/851,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARLSSON, NIKLAS
HALEPOVIC, EMIR
KRISHNAMOORTHI, VENGATANATHAN
PETAJAN, ERIC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68293046
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for determining a predicted buffer condition based on flow metrics and classifier rules generated in response to the creation of training data sets
</title>

<abstract>
A buffer classification system calculates first flow metrics for a first flow in response to receiving first packet level data. The system in response to receiving HTTP information, generates buffer emulation data and creates one or more data training sets using the first flow metrics and buffer emulation data, wherein training data used to create the one or more training data sets is further generated by computing an average throughput per second observed over different time windows during a video playback. The system in response to creating the one or more training data sets, generates one or more classifier rules used to determine a buffer condition of a flow. The system in response to receiving second packet level data, calculates second flow metrics for a second flow and predicts a buffer condition for the second flow based on the second flow metrics and the one or more classifier rules.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a processor; a memory coupled with the processor, the memory comprising executable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to effectuate operations comprising; and in response to receiving first packet level data, calculating first flow metrics for a first flow; in response to receiving HTTP information, generating buffer emulation data; creating one or more data training sets using the first flow metrics and buffer emulation data, wherein training data used to create the one or more training data sets is further generated by computing an average throughput per second observed over different time windows during a video playback; in response to creating the one or more training data sets, generating one or more classifier rules used to determine a buffer condition of a flow; in response to receiving second packet level data, calculating second flow metrics for a second flow; and predicting a buffer condition for the second flow based on the second flow metrics and the one or more classifier rules.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor effectuates further operations comprising, based on an indication of a negative impact on a quality of experience (QOE), generating an alert.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the processor effectuates further operations comprising changing a priority level of the second flow.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the one or more classifier rules define an undesired buffer condition, and wherein predicting a buffer condition comprises determining whether the buffer condition will fall within the undesired buffer condition.
5. The device of claim 4, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, performing offloading or power management.
6. The device of claim 4, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, optimizing a client providing the second flow.
7. The device of claim 4, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, increasing a transmission bandwidth used for the second flow.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor effectuates further operations comprising: generating a report of the second flow based on the predicted buffer condition at predetermined time intervals, wherein the report is used to evaluate a quality of experience (QOE) within a network; and comparing the report with a second report to determine whether a change in a relative time difference between a current video playtime and a time elapsed since beginning video playback has occurred.
9. The device of claim 1, the processor effectuates further operations comprising determining an occurrence of a change, wherein the occurrence of the change is indicative of a stall.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the processor effectuates further operations comprising, in response to an occurrence of a change, calculating a total stall duration or a stall duration ratio.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the buffer emulation data comprises an emulation of buffer conditions over an entire video playback session.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions that when executed by a processor cause the processor to effectuate operations comprising: in response to receiving first packet level data, calculating first flow metrics for a first flow; in response to receiving HTTP information, generating buffer emulation data; creating one or more data training sets using the first flow metrics and buffer emulation data, wherein training data used to create the one or more training data sets is further generated by computing an average throughput per second observed over different time windows during a video playback; in response to creating the one or more training data sets, generating one or more classifier rules used to determine a buffer condition of a flow; in response to receiving second packet level data, calculating second flow metrics for a second flow; and predicting a buffer condition for the second flow based on the second flow metrics and the one or more classifier rules.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, further comprising, based on the predicted buffer condition indicating a negative impact on a quality of experience (QOE), generating an alert.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising changing a priority level of the second flow.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, wherein the one or more classifier rules define an undesired buffer condition, and wherein predicting a buffer condition comprises determining whether the buffer condition will fall within the undesired buffer condition.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, performing offloading or power management.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, optimizing a client providing the second flow.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, based on the predicted buffer condition falling within the undesired buffer condition, increasing a transmission bandwidth used for the second flow.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 12, further comprising, comparing the report with a second report to determine whether a change in a relative time difference between a current video playtime and a time elapsed since beginning video playback has occurred.
20. A method comprising: in response to receiving first packet level data, calculating, by a processor, first flow metrics for a first flow; in response to receiving HTTP information, generating, by the processor, buffer emulation data; creating, by the processor, one or more data training sets using the first flow metrics and buffer emulation data, wherein training data used to create the one or more training data sets is further generated by computing an average throughput per second observed over different time windows during a video playback; in response to creating the one or more training data sets, generating, by the processor, one or more classifier rules used to determine a buffer condition of a flow; in response to receiving second packet level data, calculating, by the processor, second flow metrics for a second flow; and predicting, by the processor, a buffer condition for the second flow based on the second flow metrics and the one or more classifier rules.
</claims>
</document>
