<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUTUREWEI TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHI, HANG
YE, YINGHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69407294
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial intelligence based hierarchical service awareness engine
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for recognition of an application in communication traffic flow in a network using an artificial intelligence (AI) based hierarchical service awareness engine. A decode equivalent class (DEC) can be used to provide information on the application. A DEC corresponds to a class of traffic that is mapped to an artificial intelligence (AI) model associated with parameters related to the class of traffic. DEC information can be fed to an AI model set and an inference model can be derived from a AI model of the AI model set corresponding to a DEC. The inference model can be provided to a gateway of the network to recognize a specific application of a service in communication flows. In various embodiments, in training the AI models, the gateway can provide DEC information for the AI model set from classifying flows of data traffic received from the network into DECs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory storage comprising instructions; and one or more processors in communication with the memory storage, wherein the one or more processors execute the instructions to: obtain decode equivalent class (DEC) information from data traffic received from a network; feed portions of the received data traffic to an artificial intelligence (AI) model set based on results from the obtainment of the DEC information, each portion associated with an AI model of the AI model set; derive, using each AI model of the AI model set, an inference model corresponding to the DEC associated with each AI model, the inference model recognizing a service and a specific application of the service; and handle deployment of one or more inference models to one or more user plane function (UPF) gateways.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors execute instructions to trigger deployment of an inference model update to the one or more UPF gateways upon generation of the inference model updates.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors execute instructions to receive UPF gateway information from a newly added UPF gateway.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the received UPF gateway information includes communication manner information for the newly added UPF gateway.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions are executable by the one or more processors to perform operations as a DEC controller, managing multiple UPF gateways and the AI model set.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the operations as a DEC controller include operations to: acquire inputs on an application of interest and inputs for an AI model associated with the application of interest; create the AI model in the system corresponding to parameters associated with the application of interest for inclusion in the AI model set; and install rules at the one or more UPF gateways to include the application of interest for DEC classification at the one or more UPF gateways.
7. The system of claim 5, wherein the operations as a DEC controller include operations to create or delete inference models in a UPF gateway.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtainment of the DEC information includes reading a packet header to extract the DEC information or using machine learning to deduce the DEC information.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the obtainment of the DEC information includes reading a packet having the DEC listed in a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) custom header.
10. A gateway, comprising: a memory storage comprising instructions; and one or more processors in communication with the memory storage, wherein the one or more processors execute the instructions to: classify flows of data traffic received from a network into decode equivalent class (DECs); selectively direct the flows to artificial intelligence (AI) models in a system exterior to the gateway, based on the classification of the flows; send the flows to an inference models set in the gateway, based on the classification of the flows, along with DEC information corresponding to each inference model of the inference models set, each inference model recognizing a service and a specific application of the service; and manage each inference model of the inference models set in response to receiving an update for each inference model.
11. The gateway of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors classify the flows of data traffic based on information in a stored policy that specifies types of applications to classify.
12. The gateway of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors classify flows of data into DECs based on domain name system messages via regular expression checkup.
13. The gateway of claim 10, wherein the one or more processors selectively direct the flows to the AI models by sending a part of the flows to the AI models.
14. The gateway of claim 10, wherein the flows to the AI models include a packet header for an individual flow having DEC information associated with the individual flow or a hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP) custom header for an individual flow having the DEC corresponding to the individual flow.
15. A computer-implemented method for operating a system to recognize an application in network data flows, the computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining, with one or more processors, decode equivalent class (DEC) information from data traffic received from a network; feeding, with the one or more processors, portions of the received data traffic to an artificial intelligence (AI) model set based on results from the obtainment of the DEC information, each portion associated with an AI model of the AI model set; deriving, using each AI model of the AI model set, an inference model corresponding to the DEC associated with each AI model, the inference model recognizing a service and a specific application of the service; and handling, with the one or more processors, deployment of one or more inference models to one or more user plane function (UPF) gateways.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the computer-implemented method includes triggering deployment of an inference model update to the one or more UPF gateways upon generation of the inference model update.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the computer-implemented method includes receiving UPF gateway information from a newly added UPF gateway.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the computer-implemented method includes performing operations as a DEC controller to manage multiple UPF gateways and the AI model set.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein performing the operations as the DEC controller includes: acquiring inputs on an application of interest and inputs for an AI model associated with the application of interest; creating the AI model in the system corresponding to parameters associated with the application of interest for inclusion in the AI model set; and installing rules at the one or more UPF gateways to include the application of interest for DEC classification at the one or more UPF gateways.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein performing the operations as the DEC controller includes creating or deleting inference models in a UPF gateway.
</claims>
</document>
