<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F17/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N99/00,G09B5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEARSON EDUCATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KINSMAN, AMY L.
FERRARA, STEPHEN F.
STEEDLE, JEFFREY T.
FRANTZ, ROGER S.
REILLY, AMY A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60038892
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Content based remote data packet intervention
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for remote intervention are disclosed herein. The system can include memory including: a user profile database; a content database; and a model database. The system can include a supervisor device including: a network interface; and an I/O subsystem. The system can include a content management server that can: receive a first electrical signal from the supervisor device; generate and send an electrical signal to the supervisor device directing the launch of the content authoring interface; receive a second electrical signal including content received by the content authoring interface from the supervisor device; identify a plurality of response demands in the received content; determine a level of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; determine the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; and generate and send an alert to the supervisor device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for remote intervention comprising: memory comprising: a user profile database comprising information identifying one or several attributes of a user; a content database comprising data identifying predetermined content levels and data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable; and a model database comprising data identifying a plurality of response demands and data identifying algorithms for determining the plurality of response demands; a supervisor device comprising: a network interface configured to exchange data via the communication network; and an I/O subsystem configured to convert electrical signals to user-interpretable outputs via a user interface; a content management server, wherein the content management server is configured to: receive a first electrical signal from the supervisor device, wherein the first electrical signal comprises a request for access to a content authoring interface; generate and send an electrical signal to the supervisor device directing the launch of the content authoring interface; receive a second electrical signal from the supervisor device, wherein the second electrical signal comprises content received by the content authoring interface; identify a plurality of response demands in the received content; determine a level of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; determine the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; and generate and send an alert to the supervisor device, wherein the alert comprises computer code to trigger activation of the I/O subsystem of the supervisor device to provide an indication of the acceptability of the received content and a change recommendation for the received content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the response demands comprise a plurality of linguistic response demands and a plurality of cognitive response demands.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of linguistic response demands comprise at least one of: a value indicative of a vocabulary level of the received content; or a value indicative of a syntactic demand.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the content management server is configured to determine the vocabulary level of the received content.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein determining the vocabulary level of the received content comprises: (i) parsing the received content to identify words within the received content; (ii) selecting a word; (iii) matching the selected word to a tier of words; (iv) associating a value indicative of the tier of words with the selected words; and (v) repeating steps (ii)-(iv) until all of the words in the received content have been associated with a value indicative of the tier of words.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands comprises: retrieving data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable from the content database; and comparing the determined level of the received content to the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands further comprises associating a first value with the received content when the comparison of the determined level of the received content and the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable indicates that the determined level of the received content is acceptable.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands further comprises associating a second value with the received content when the comparison of the determined level of the received content and the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable indicates that the determined level of the received content is unacceptable.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the indication of the acceptability of the received content comprises data identifying the determined level of the received content as unacceptable.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the change recommendation identifies a portion of the received content for change and comprises a recommended change for that portion of the received content.
11. A method for remote intervention comprising: receiving a first electrical signal at a content management server from a supervisor device comprising a network interface and an I/O subsystem, wherein the I/O subsystem is configured to convert electrical signals to user-interpretable outputs via a user interface, and wherein the first electrical signal comprises a request for access to a content authoring interface; generating and sending an electrical signal from the content management server to the supervisor device directing the launch of the content authoring interface by the I/O subsystem; receiving a second electrical signal at the content management server from the supervisor device, wherein the second electrical signal comprises content received by the content authoring interface; identifying with the content management server a plurality of response demands in the received content; determining with the content management server a level of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; determining with the content management server the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands; and generating and sending an alert from the content management server to the supervisor device, wherein the alert triggers activation of the I/O subsystem of the supervisor device to provide an indication of the acceptability of the received content and a change recommendation for the received content.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the response demands comprise a plurality of linguistic response demands and a plurality of cognitive response demands.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the plurality of linguistic response demands comprise at least one of: a value indicative of a vocabulary level of the received content; or a value indicative of a syntactic demand.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising determining the vocabulary level of the received content.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining the vocabulary level of the received content comprises: (vi) parsing the received content to identify words within the received content; (vii) selecting a word; (viii) matching the selected word to a tier of words; (ix) associating a value indicative of the tier of words with the selected words; and (x) repeating steps (ii)-(iv) until all of the words in the received content have been associated with a value indicative of the tier of words.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands comprises: retrieving data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable from the content database; and comparing the determined level of the received content to the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands further comprises associating a first value with the received content when the comparison of the determined level of the received content and the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable indicates that the determined level of the received content is acceptable.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the acceptability of the received content based on the identified plurality of response demands further comprises associating a second value with the received content when the comparison of the determined level of the received content and the data identifying some of the predetermined content levels as acceptable indicates that the determined level of the received content is unacceptable.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the indication of the acceptability of the received content comprises data identifying the determined level of the received content as unacceptable.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the change recommendation identifies a portion of the received content for change and comprises a recommended change for that portion of the received content.
</claims>
</document>
