<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B17/00,A61B17/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GARCIA-BENGOCHEA, JAVIER
JGMG BENGOCHEA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARCIA-BENGOCHEA, JAVIER
VON AMSBERG, MARC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62144033
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Implants and instruments for enhancing vertebral alignment and sagittal balance
</title>

<abstract>
Spinal stabilization implant assemblies, as well as systems, instruments and methods are provided for implanting and stabilizing adjacent vertebra in connection with a surgical procedure, particularly a spinal surgery. The implant assemblies and instruments enable controlled spinal rod insertion and reduction, and controlled rotation or de-rotation of adjacent spinal bones for optimized compression to achieve enhanced sagittal balance in a treated spine.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane, comprising: a. providing at least one spinal stabilization rod having a spherical head disposed at a first terminus, the spherical head including a curved contact surface and at least two fixation screws that are adapted for implantation in a bone of a spine, each fixation screw having a generally U-shaped aperture for receiving a spinal stabilization rod, wherein at least one of the fixation screws is a pivoting screw assembly that includes a receiver body and a fixation screw, the receiver body adapted to rotate around and to pivot in at least one plane relative to a longitudinal axis of the fixation screw to enable at least two degrees of freedom for aligning and engaging the stabilization rod within the generally U-shaped aperture, and wherein the fixation screws, when implanted in adjacent vertebrae and when interconnected by passage of the rod through their generally U-shaped apertures along an axis in the sagittal plane, are rigid in the sagittal plane to enable their use as a fulcrum for rotation of the spinal bone in the sagittal plane; b. implanting the at least one pivoting screw assembly into a first spinal bone comprising a cranial oriented vertebra, and implanting the other of the at least two fixation screws into a second spinal bone comprising a caudal oriented vertebra; c. inserting the at least one spinal stabilization rod into each of the U-shaped apertures of each of the respective implanted fixation screws, with the curved contact surface of the stabilization rod having the spherical head into the fixation screw assembly that has a caudal orientation; d. provisionally locking the spinal stabilization rod into the fixation screw implanted in the caudal oriented vertebra; e. rotating the fixation screw implanted in the caudal oriented vertebra in the sagittal plane in a direction that is either cranial or caudal so as to either compress or distract the intervertebral space; and f. locking the spinal stabilization rod into each of the assemblies to fix the position of the vertebrae.
2. The method for adjusting a spine according to claim 1, wherein when the at least one pivoting fixation screw is implanted into the first spinal bone, its receiver body is oriented to pivot only in the transverse plane within a range from about 5 degrees to about 30 degrees.
3. The method for adjusting a spine according to claim 1, wherein the at least one of the fixation screws is adapted to rotate on an axis in the transverse plane within a range from about 5 degrees to about 25 degrees.
4. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 1, wherein (i) the fixation screw of the pivoting screw assembly includes a threaded shank, and a head having a concave curved cradle that is shaped and disposed to receive and support the stabilization rod, and a tapered surface that is adjacent to the threaded shank, the tapered surface including a linear taper, a curved taper, or a combination thereof; and (ii) the receiver body of the pivoting screw assembly that is adapted for engagement with the fixation screw includes a base that includes a curved exterior surface, an interior surface having a through slot for receiving the shank and a seat with a curved surface for contacting the tapered surface of the fixation screw; and opposing sidewalls extending from the base, the opposing sidewalls including interior and exterior surfaces, and including on the interior surfaces opposing flats adjacent to the base and a threaded portion proximal to the flats; wherein the base and the opposing sidewalls are shaped and disposed to receive the spinal stabilization rod in contact with the cradle of the screw head inserted in the through slot, and wherein the curved exterior surface of the base and the curved surface of the seat of the base include an essentially common curvature.
5. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 4, wherein the pivoting screw assembly further comprises a generally cylindrical compression component including a threaded surface disposed and arranged to engage with the threaded portions on the interior surfaces of the opposing sidewalls of the receiver body, the compression component shaped to contact and compress against a spinal stabilization rod in contact with the cradle of the screw head.
6. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 5, wherein the spinal stabilization rod comprises: a shaft including a first terminus and a second terminus; a spherical head disposed at the first terminus, the spherical head including a curved contact surface; and an engagement recess disposed in the curved contact surface.
7. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 5, wherein the receiver body further comprises a pair of opposing slats extending from above the threaded portion away from the seat, the pair of opposing slats defining a central passage and a handle grip adapted to be affixed to the elongate slats via insertion of the slats into opposing engagement slots, the handle grip including a central through hole.
8. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 7, wherein the central passage between the opposing slats of the receiver body has a circumference that is defined by the pair of opposing slats, and wherein not more than 60% of the circumference includes combined circumferential edges of the pair of opposing slats, and at least 40% of the circumference is defined by gaps between the opposing slats.
9. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 7, wherein the pair of opposing slats are removably attached to the receiver body.
10. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 7, wherein the pair of opposing slats are scored for removal from the receiver body.
11. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 7, wherein the receiver body includes at least one emplacement shaped and disposed to receive the pair of opposing slats extending from above the threaded portion away from the seat, the pair of opposing slats defining a central passage.
12. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 4, wherein each of the fixation screw head and the receiver body include an undercut surface that define a transitional edge between the generally U-shaped conformation of the receiver body and the concave cradle of the fixation screw head.
13. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 4, wherein, as assembled, the curved exterior surface of the base, and the curved surface of the seat of the base, restrict rotation of the receiver body to a single axis of rotation aligned with the essentially common curvature and wherein the opposing flats limit the extent of pivotal movement of the receiver body.
14. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 4, wherein the pivoting screw assembly further comprises a footing, the footing including a curved support surface shaped and disposed to support the curved exterior surface of the base, the curved support surface of the footing including the essentially common curvature.
15. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 14, wherein the footing includes at least one clocking alignment recess, and the fixation screw includes at least one clocking alignment projection arranged and disposed to interlock with the at least one clocking alignment recess when assembled.
16. The method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane according to claim 4, wherein the screw head further includes a plurality of contoured surfaces sloping away from the cradle toward the tapered surface, the plurality of contoured surfaces including contours selected from the group consisting of bevels, chamfers, curves, and combinations thereof.
17. A method for adjusting a spine that is defined by a sagittal plane, a frontal plane and a transverse plane, comprising: providing a surgical stabilization system including a plurality of fixation screw assemblies, including at least one pivoting screw assembly having an aperture with a generally U-shaped conformation, and one or more fixation screw assemblies selected from a monoaxial fixation screw assembly, a pivoting screw assembly and one or more conventional fixation screw assemblies; providing at least one of a spinal stabilization rod including a shaft including a first terminus and a second terminus; a spherical head disposed at the first terminus, the spherical head including a curved contact surface; and an engagement recess disposed in the curved contact surface; implanting the fixation screw assemblies into adjacent vertebrae between which is an intervertebral disc space, including implanting the pivoting screw assembly in a vertebra that has a cranial orientation, and implanting the fixation screw selected from a monoaxial fixation screw assembly, a pivoting screw assembly, and a conventional fixation screw assembly in a vertebra that has a caudal orientation, wherein the spinal assemblies are implanted in any order; affixing an inserter tool into engagement with the curved contact surface of the stabilization rod, and passing the stabilization rod through the opposing sidewalls of the fixation screw assembly that has a caudal orientation and directing the second terminus of the stabilization rod into contact with the pivoting screw assembly that has a cranial orientation; actuating motion of the pivoting screw assembly by at least one of pivoting the aperture having a generally U-shaped conformation in the transverse plane and rotating the aperture having a generally U-shaped conformation around an axis that is in the frontal plane to capture the stabilization rod shaft in the aperture having a generally U-shaped conformation; positioning the spherical head of the stabilization rod into contact with a seat of the fixation screw assembly, and provisionally locking the spherical head of the stabilization rod into the fixation screw assembly that has a caudal orientation with a compression component, rotating at least the fixation screw assembly that has a caudal orientation in the sagittal plane in a direction that is either cranial or caudal to either compress or distract the intervertebral space, locking each of the first and second termini of the spinal stabilization rod into each of the fixation screw assemblies to fix the position of the vertebrae.
18. A method for adjusting a spine according to claim 17 wherein the spherical head of the spinal stabilization rod is positioned in any one of the fixation screw assemblies selected from a monoaxial fixation screw assembly, a pivoting screw assembly and one or more conventional fixation screw assemblies.
19. A method for adjusting a spine according to claim 18 wherein the fixation screw assembly that has a caudal orientation is a monoaxial screw assembly that includes a spherical seat for receiving the spherical head of the spinal stabilization rod and a pair of opposing slats extending from above the seat, the pair of opposing slats defining a central passage.
</claims>
</document>
