<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/06,H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMERICORP INVESTMENTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIMONS, JORDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67842217
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Customized view of restricted information recorded into a blockchain
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and software are disclosed herein to generate a customized view of a blockchain transaction. A blockchain of block entries requested by a plurality of users from user devices is maintained in a distributed network of nodes. The block entries each comprise a plurality of data portions that are each associated with an access level. A request to view one or more data portions of a block entry is received which includes an access code associated with at least one access level. The access code in the request is evaluated with the blockchain of block entries to identify one or more data portions associated with the access level. A customized view of the block entry is generated which includes the one or more data portions associated with the access level.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a network of nodes communicably coupled to endpoints in a distributed network, wherein the network of nodes maintains a distributed ledger with entries from one or more endpoints, wherein a marker is associated with each entry identifying an access level needed to review the entry; a communications component to receive a request to view at least a portion of one or more of the entries stored in the distributed ledger, wherein the request includes an access code associated with at least one access level; an access control layer to evaluate the access code in the request received via the communications component and to identify segments within the one or more entries stored on the distributed ledger that are accessible with the at least one access level provided in the request; and an access platform or decentralized application to generate a customized view of the segments within the one or more entries maintained in the distributed ledger.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising a codex configured to obfuscate identifying information of a user making the request to view at least a portion of the one or more entries.
3. The system of claim 1, further comprising an artificial intelligence engine to review entries within the distributed ledger and assign the access level needed to review each of the entries.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the artificial intelligence engine classifies data within each of the entries into one or more categories.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the access control layer then sets a different encryption level for each of the one or more categories of data classified by the artificial intelligence engine.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more categories include e-mail addresses, account numbers, balances, parties of a transaction, mailing addresses, party affiliation, biometrics, driver's license numbers, photographs, or social security numbers.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the one or more categories includes classified information.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the request to view the at least a portion of one or more of the entries stored in the distributed ledger is part of an inventory tracking request, a financial auditing request, a gaming regulation request, a banking request, a voting request, a court proceeding, a healthcare request, a fire arm sale validation request, a retail sale request, a pharmaceutical sale request, a pension request, a financial transaction request, or an insurance request.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the access level associated with segments within the one or more entries includes at least one of a private access level, a permissive access level, or a public access level.
10. A method for generating a customized view of blockchain transactions comprising: receiving a request to view one or more data portions of a block entry maintained in a blockchain; determining an access code associated with at least one access level associated with the request; evaluating the access code in the request with the blockchain of block entries to identify one or more data portions associated with the access level; and generating a customized view of the block entry including any of the one or more data portions associated with the access level.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein evaluating the access code in the request with the blockchain of block entries includes processing an encrypted code to validate access to view the one or more data portions associated with the access level.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising removing or obfuscating identifying information of a user making the request to view one or more data portions of the block entry.
13. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving data from one or more endpoints; segmenting the data from the one or more endpoints using an artificial intelligence engine; and automatically assigning at least one access level to each segment of the data.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the data includes classified data and automatically assigning at least one access level to each segment of the data includes assigning a security clearance level to the classified data.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: monitoring a classification status of the classified data; and updating the at the at least one access level, upon determining a classification status of the data classified has changed.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more endpoints include voting machines, gaming machines, electronic financial exchanges, or security systems.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the block entry includes transaction details about a private deal and the at least one access level is initially set to private and the method further comprises: monitoring a status of the private deal; and updating the at the at least one access level, upon determining the private deal has become public, to public allowing public portions of the private deal to be viewed with a public access code.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the request is part of an inventory tracking request, a financial auditing request, or a gaming regulation request.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein the access level associated with the one or more data portions of the block entry comprises at least one of a private access level, a permissive access level, and a public access level.
20. The method of claim 10, wherein the access level associated with the one or more data portions include a security clearance level.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the block entry includes redaction mappings based on the security clearance level and wherein generating the customized view of the block entry includes applying the redaction mappings to obfuscate some of the one or more data portions of the block entry.
22. The method of claim 10, wherein the block entry includes multiple redaction mapping based on the access level.
23. A system comprising: means for maintaining a blockchain of block entries requested by a plurality of users from user devices in a distributed network of nodes, wherein the block entries each comprise a plurality of data portions that are each associated with an access level; means for receiving a request to view one or more data portions of a block entry, wherein the request comprises an access code associated with at least one access level; means for evaluating the access code in the request with the blockchain of block entries to identify one or more data portions associated with the access level; and means for generating a customized view of the block entry including the one or more data portions associated with the access level.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the customized view includes applications of redactions to portions of the data.
25. A method for generating a customized view of blockchain data, the method comprising: receiving a request to view one or more data portions of a block entry maintained in a blockchain, wherein the one or more data portions of the block entry include classified information; and wherein the one or more data portions of the block entry are each associated with an access level; evaluating an access code in the request with the blockchain of block entries to identify one or more data portions associated with the access level; and generating a customized view of the block entry including any of the one or more data portions associated with the access level while applying redactions to any of the classified information not authorized by the access code.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the access level associated with the one or more data portions include a security clearance level.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the block entry includes redaction mappings based on the security clearance level.
</claims>
</document>
