<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F17/30,G06K19/06,G06K7/10,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
</assignee>

<inventors>
ATCHLEY, MICHAEL DEAN
HIGH, DONALD R.
JONES, MATTHEW ALLEN
MCHALE, BRIAN GERARD
NATARAJAN, CHANDRASHEKAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59786828
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predictive shopping
</title>

<abstract>
A budget-constrained, machine-learning system is described that creates a shopping (purchase) list and performs on-line ordering and delivery. It receives the shopper's past purchase receipts from a retail store, pharmacy and/or auto center. It may attach to a web server to acquire on-line browsing information. The system creates a Purchase List from acquired information. The system receives a budget and determines if all items on the Purchase List can be bought under the budget. If not, the items are given priority ratings. The system walks down the list to in decreasing priority rating order identifying items to purchase without exceeding the budget. The shopper may override the items identified to be purchased. Shopper override is monitored by a machine learning engine which adjusts the priority rating of the item or the period of replacement for the next shopping trip/session, allowing for more accurate results and flexibility.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system that communicates with an e-commerce system to automatically purchase items for a shopper comprising: a store system comprising: a receipts database having information on items purchased by the shopper in the past, and a controller adapted to: make automated purchases through the e-commerce system, and communicate with other computing devices; a home office system coupled to the store system, comprising: an item file memory, having stored information about items purchased by the shopper; a past actions analysis device coupled to the controller adapted to organize, categorize and analyze information on items purchased by shopper from the receipts database and calculate a period of time between repeated purchases of at least one item; a predictive engine coupled to the past actions analysis device, adapted to receive the calculated periods of time between repeated purchases of items, estimate future purchase dates for these items, then adjust the estimates based upon user input; a list modification device coupled to the predictive engine and the store system, adapted to: receive the time periods for each item previously purchased and create a master list indicating when each item is to be purchased again based upon the time periods received from the predictive engine; receive input from shopper adding items to the master list; receive a maximum budgeted amount indicating the maximum amount to be spent on a shopping session; create a purchase list from the master list having a plurality of items that are desired to be purchased at the next upcoming shopping session each listed on a separate line from top to bottom, with the top item being the most important to the bottom line being the least important; display the purchase list through the shopper's computing device to the shopper; send the purchase list to an e-commerce system to purchase the items on the purchase list if all the items on the purchase list do not cost more than the maximum budgeted amount; if a combined cost of the items on the purchase list exceeds the maximum budgeted amount, then functioning to interact with the shopper's computing device to move items above other items to indicate their relative importance until all are organized by importance; and delete items starting from the bottom of the purchase list until the items remaining cost does not exceed the maximum budgeted amount; a priority/period adjuster coupled to the list modification device adapted to: monitor the adjustment made by shopper to the purchase list, and adjust the priority rating of at least one item based upon the shopper's adjustments and store the updated priority ratings for later use; and wherein the shopper's computing device comprises: an I/O device adapted to receive input and display output; wherein the shopper's computing device is configured to: receive input from shopper through the I/O device, display output to shopper through the I/O device, and communicate with at least one of the store system and the home office system.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising: a past actions storage device coupled to the past actions analysis device, adapted to receive and store a period of time between repeated purchases for a plurality of items.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the shopper's computing device further comprises: a camera; and executable code that when run: interacts with camera and allows the shopper to take a picture of product, identifies the product, and allows the user to add item to the master list.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the shopper's computing device further comprises: bar code scanner; and executable code that when executed: causes the bar code scanner to read a barcode, determines an item for sale from the bar code; and adds item to the master list.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the store system further comprises: a pharmacy database having information on past prescription purchases, coupled to the controller.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the store system further comprises: an auto center database having information on past automotive purchases, coupled to the controller.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the list modification device is further adapted to: categorize items purchased by the shopper; identify at least one trend relating to the categories of the items purchased for this shopper; and suggest to the shopper that a product/service offered by the store is consistent with an identified trend and should be added to the master list.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein the list modification device is further adapted to: suggest that a healthy product replace a similar product on the master list, if the identified trend shows an increase in the purchase of healthy products over time.
9. A system of automatically purchasing items for a shopper from an e-commerce system comprising: a shopper's computing device adapted to interactively allow the shopper to view, modify, add items stored in a table, such as a master list; a store system which has information on the past purchases of items at the retailer by this shopper, information on current products for sale by the retailer and special deals being offered by the retailer, and having stored executable code capable of purchasing items on the updated purchase list through the e-commerce system; a communications link linking the shopper's computing device to the store system; a home office system comprising: a past actions analysis device adapted to: determine items which have been repeatedly purchased by the shopper; provide the repeatedly purchased items to the shopper's computing device; and determine the period when the shopper buys the items; a predictive engine adapted to: receive the purchase periods for each item; predict purchase dates to buy items from the received purchase period of each item; create a purchase list from the predicted purchase dates and items manually added by the shopper; a list modification device coupled to the predictive engine adapted to: receive a maximum budgeted amount indicating the maximum amount to be spent on a shopping session; create a purchase list from the master list having a plurality of items that are desired to be purchased at the next upcoming shopping session each listed on a separate line from top to bottom, with the top item being the most important to the bottom line being the least important; display the purchase list through the shopper's computing device to the shopper; determine which items can be purchased starting with the highest priority rating to the lowest without exceeding the maximum budgeted amount; receive input from the shopper to adjust the purchase list; and provide the purchase list to the shopper's computing device for on-line or in-store purchase of items on the list; if a combined cost of the items on the purchase list exceeds the maximum budgeted amount, then functioning to interact with the shopper's computing device to move items above other items to indicate their relative importance until all are organized by importance; and delete items starting from the bottom of the purchase list until the items remaining cost less than the maximum budgeted amount; and a priority/period adjuster coupled to the list modification device adapted to: monitor the shopper's adjustments to the purchase list, and adjust priority rating of at least one item on the purchase list based upon the shopper's adjustments; and store the adjusted priority ratings for subsequent uses, thereby increasing their accuracy with use.
10. The system of claim 9 wherein the store system further comprises: a pharmacy database having information on past prescription purchases, coupled to the controller.
11. The system of claim 9 wherein the store system further comprises: an auto center database having information on past automotive purchases, coupled to the controller.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein: the items purchased are grocery items.
</claims>
</document>
