<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/10,G06N20/00,G07F7/08,G07F7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HART, COLIN
HERRINGTON, DANIEL
RULE, JEFFREY
HENG, MELISSA YOEMANS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70296015
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Contextual tapping engine
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments for contextual tapping engines. For example, an application executing on a computing device may authenticate credentials associated with an account and detect a tap of a contactless card to the computing device. The application may receive, from a communications interface of the contactless card, action data used to determine an action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the computing device. The application may determine a context of the application based on a current output of the application. The application may determine, based on the action data, the determined context, and data associated with the account, a first action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the computing device, the first action associated with at least one of the application and an operating system (OS). The application may initiate performance of the first action based on the tap of the contactless card.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus, comprising: a processor circuit; and a memory storing instructions which when executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: authenticate, by an application executing on the processor circuit, credentials associated with an account; detect, by the application, a tap of a contactless card associated with the account to the apparatus; receive, by the application from a communications interface of the contactless card, action data used at least in part to determine an action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the apparatus; receive a machine learning (ML) model, the ML model generated based on training data describing a plurality of actions performed responsive to a plurality of taps of a plurality of contactless cards to a plurality of devices, the contactless card associated with the account one of the plurality of contactless cards; determine, by the application, a context of the application based at least in part on a current output of the application; generate a predicted action by the application based on the action data, the determined context, and the ML model, the predicted action associated with at least one of the application and an operating system (OS) executing on the processor circuit; determine, the predicted action as the action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the apparatus; and initiate, by the application, performance of the predicted action based on the tap of the contactless card to the apparatus.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, the memory storing instructions which when executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: determine the context of the application based on at least one function and at least one contactless card associated with the current output of the application, the current output of the application comprising a page outputted on a display of the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, the memory storing instructions which when executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: determine, by the application, a user-defined action specified in data associated with the account; and determine, by the application, the user-defined action as the action associated with the tap of the contactless card.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, the memory storing instructions which when executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: receive input specifying a user-defined action to associate with the tap of the contactless card to the apparatus and the context of the application; and store, in a memory of the contactless card, an indication of the user-defined action as being associated with the tap of the contactless card to the apparatus and the context of the application.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, the memory storing instructions which when executed by the processor circuit, cause the processor circuit to: determine, by the application, that the action data comprises a uniform resource locator (URL); and perform an operation associated with the URL.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the action comprises one or more of: (i) a phone call, (ii) loading a page of the application, (iii) activating a component of the OS, (iv) accessing a function of a different application executing on the OS, and (v) activating the contactless card.
7. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code embodied therewith, the computer-readable program code executable by a processor circuit to cause the processor circuit to: authenticate, by an application executing on the processor circuit, credentials associated with an account; detect, by the application, a tap of a contactless card associated with the account to a device; receive, by the application from a communications interface of the contactless card, action data used at least in part to determine an action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the device; determine, by the application, a context of the application based at least in part on a current output of the application; generate a machine learning (ML) model based on training data describing a plurality of actions performed responsive to a plurality of taps of a plurality of contactless cards to a plurality of devices, the contactless card associated with the account one of the plurality of contactless cards determine, by the application based on the action data, the determined context, and the ML model, a first action as the action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the device, the first action comprising an action performed by at least one of the application and an operating system (OS) executing on the processor circuit; and initiate, by the application, performance of the first action based on the tap of the contactless card to the device.
8. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, further comprising computer-readable program code executable by the processor circuit to cause the processor circuit to: determine the context of the application based on at least one function and at least one contactless card associated with the current output of the application, the current output of the application comprising a page outputted on a display of the device, wherein the first action comprises one or more of: (i) a phone call, (ii) loading a page of the application, (iii) activating a component of the OS, (iv) accessing a function of a different application executing on the OS, and (v) activating the contactless card.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, further comprising computer-readable program code executable by the processor circuit to cause the processor circuit to: determine, by the application, a user-defined action specified in data associated with the account; and determine, by the application, the user-defined action as the first action.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, further comprising computer-readable program code executable by the processor circuit to cause the processor circuit to: receive input specifying a user-defined action to associate with the tap of the contactless card to the device and the context of the application; and store, in a memory of the contactless card, an indication of the user-defined action as being associated with the tap of the contactless card to the device and the context of the application.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 7, further comprising computer-readable program code executable by the processor circuit to cause the processor circuit to: determine, by the application, that the action data comprises a uniform resource locator (URL), wherein initiating performance of the first action comprises performing an operation associated with the URL.
12. A method, comprising: authenticating, by an application executing on a processor circuit of a device, credentials associated with an account; detecting, by the application, a tap of a contactless card associated with the account to the device; receiving, by the application from a communications interface of the contactless card, action data used at least in part to determine an action associated with the tap of the contactless card to the device; determining, by the application, a context of the application based at least in part on a current output of the application; generating a machine learning (ML) model based on training data describing a plurality of actions performed responsive to a plurality of taps of a plurality of contactless cards to a plurality of devices, the contactless card associated with the account one of the plurality of contactless cards; determining, by the application based on the action data, the determined context, and the ML model, a first action as the action associated with the tap of the contactless card to, the first action comprising an action performed by at least one of the application and an operating system (OS) executing on the processor circuit; and initiating, by the application, performance of the first action based on the tap of the contactless card to the device.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining the context of the application based on at least one function and at least one contactless card associated with the current output of the application, the current output of the application comprising a page outputted on a display of the device, wherein the first action comprises one or more of: (i) a phone call, (ii) loading a page of the application, (iii) activating a component of the OS, (iv) accessing a function of a different application executing on the OS, and (v) activating the contactless card.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, by the application, a user-defined action specified in data associated with the account; and determining, by the application, the user-defined action as the first action.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: receiving input specifying a user-defined action to associate with the tap of the contactless card to the device and the context of the application; and storing, in a memory of the contactless card, an indication of the user-defined action as being associated with the tap of the contactless card to the device and the context of the application.
16. The method of claim 12, further comprising: determining, by the application, that the action data comprises a uniform resource locator (URL), wherein initiating performance of the first action comprises performing an operation associated with the URL.
</claims>
</document>
