<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ABB SCHWEIZ
</assignee>

<inventors>
COX DAVID N.
SMILEY, KAREN J.
PATEL, PANKESHKUMAR GOPALBHAI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971692
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Search engine for industrial analysis development toolset
</title>

<abstract>
Unique systems, methods, techniques and apparatuses for ranking and applying industrial analysis search results are disclosed. One exemplary embodiment is a computer implemented method comprising receiving a request to rank potential combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools; tagging the plurality of data analysis tools with one or more metadata tags selected from a plurality of metadata tags; tagging the data set with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags; scoring a plurality of potential combinations of the data analysis tool and the plurality of data sets according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to the data analysis tool and the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data sets; and outputting a user perceptible ranking of the plurality of potential combinations indicating the scoring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method of analyzing and ranking compatibility of combinations of a data set and a plurality of data analysis tools operable to analyze the data sets, the method comprising: tagging the plurality of data analysis tools with one or more metadata tags selected from a plurality of metadata tags, each of the plurality of metadata tags indicating a data analysis tool characteristic or a data set characteristic, each data analysis tool characteristic indicating at least one of an attribute of an input used by a corresponding data analysis tool and an attribute of a processing operation performed by the corresponding data analysis tool; tagging the data set with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags, the selected metadata tags having a characteristic matching the data set characteristic of the data set; receiving a request to rank combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools; scoring a plurality of combinations of the plurality of data analysis tools and the data set according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data analysis tools and the metadata tags tagged to the data set; and outputting a ranking of the plurality of combinations indicating the scoring.
2. The method of claim 1 comprising tagging a plurality of data sets with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein scoring includes scoring the plurality of combinations of the plurality of data sets and the plurality of data analysis tools according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data analysis tools and the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data sets.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein outputting the ranking includes displaying a visual indicator for each score of the plurality of potential combinations on a user-perceptible screen.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein receiving the request to rank combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools includes receiving search criteria for the plurality of data analysis tools from a user, and wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying each combination using the search criteria.
6. The method of claim 5 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying combinations by adapting the data set for use with one of the plurality of data analysis tools.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes testing the data set or the data analysis tool of a first combination to determine if the first combination would produce statistically significant data.
8. A computer implemented method of analyzing and ranking compatibility of combinations of a data analysis tool and a plurality of data sets analyzable by the data analysis tool, the method comprising: tagging the data analysis tool with one or more metadata tags selected from a plurality of metadata tags, each of the plurality of metadata tags indicating a data analysis tool characteristic or a data set characteristic, each data analysis tool characteristic indicating at least one of an attribute of an input used by a corresponding data analysis tool and an attribute of a processing operation performed by the corresponding data analysis tool; tagging each of the plurality of data sets with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags, each of the tagged data sets having a characteristic matching the data set characteristic of the selected metadata tag with which it is tagged; receiving a request to rank combinations of the data analysis tool and the plurality of data sets; scoring a plurality of combinations of the data analysis tool and the plurality of data sets according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to the data analysis tool and the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data sets; and outputting a user perceptible ranking of the plurality of combinations indicating the scoring.
9. The method of claim 8 comprising tagging a plurality of data analysis tools with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein scoring includes scoring the plurality of combinations of the plurality of data sets and the plurality of data analysis tools according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data tools and the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data sets.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein outputting the ranking includes displaying a visual indicator for each score of the plurality of combinations on a user-perceptible screen.
12. The method of claim 8 wherein receiving the request to rank combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools includes receiving search criteria for the plurality of data sets from a user, and wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying each combination using the search criteria.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying combinations by adapting the data analysis tool for use with one of the plurality of data sets.
14. The method of claim 8 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes testing the data set or the data analysis tool of a first combination to determine if the first combination would produce statistically significant data.
15. A computing device for analyzing and ranking compatibility of combinations of a plurality of data sets and a plurality of data analysis tools, the computing device comprising: a processing device; a memory device including a stored set of instructions executable by the processing device effective to: receive the plurality of data analysis tools with one or more metadata tags selected from a plurality of metadata tags, each of the plurality of metadata tags indicating a data analysis tool characteristic or a data set characteristic, each data analysis tool characteristic indicating at least one of an attribute of an input used by a corresponding data analysis tool and an attribute of a processing operation performed by the corresponding data analysis tool; receive the plurality of data sets with one or more metadata tags selected from the plurality of metadata tags, each of the tagged data sets having a characteristic matching the data set characteristic of the selected metadata tag with which it is tagged; receive a request to rank combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools; score a plurality of combinations of the plurality of data analysis tools and the data set according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged to each of the plurality of data analysis tools and the metadata tags tagged to the data set; and output a ranking of the plurality of combinations indicating the scoring.
16. The computing device of claim 15 wherein scoring includes scoring the plurality of combinations of the plurality of data sets and the plurality of data analysis tools according to correspondence between the metadata tags tagged a sequence of the plurality of data analysis tools and the metadata tags tagged to at least one of the plurality of data sets.
17. The computing device of claim 15 wherein outputting the ranking includes displaying a visual indicator for each score of the plurality of combinations on a user-perceptible screen.
18. The computing device of claim 15 wherein receiving the request to rank combinations of the data set and the plurality of data analysis tools includes receiving search criteria for the plurality of data analysis tools from a user, and wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying each combination using the search criteria.
19. The computing device of claim 18 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes identifying combinations by adapting the data set for use with one of the plurality of data analysis tools.
20. The computing device of claim 15 wherein scoring the plurality of combinations includes testing the data set or the data analysis tool of a first combination to determine if the first combination would produce statistically significant data.
</claims>
</document>
