<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,G06Q30/08,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EBAY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GYANCHAND, AVISHEK
KRISHNAMURTHY, ASHWIN GANESH
SHARAN, YOTAM
SUDHINDRA, ARUN
URBAN, JOSHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65324585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Garnering interest on potential listing in a photo or video
</title>

<abstract>
Various implementations described herein are able to leverage the interaction from one or more potential buyers relative to a digital image to automatically create a sales listing for items that appear to be of interest to the buyers. This reduces or eliminates all together the manual effort previously required of sellers in researching and collecting data on each item they wish to sell. Because of their technical nature, the innovative solutions described herein are also readily scalable which, in turn, greatly improves the seller's experience. Based on buyer interaction experiences, sales listings for each item for sale can be automatically created and listed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: monitoring, by the computing device, an on-line interaction experience of a user associated with a digital image that contains one or more items that are to be listed on a website, wherein the one or more items do not have a previously existing item listing; based on the on-line interaction experience, developing, by the computing device, item metadata; based on the item metadata, automatically creating, by the computing device, an initial item listing for at least one of the one or more items that are to be listed on the website; and causing, by the computing device, the item listing to be automatically listed on the website.
2. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the on-line interaction experience comprises interactions of the user with the digital image.
3. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the on-line interaction experience comprises interactions of the user with the digital image, and wherein at least one interaction of the user comprises a zoom operation.
4. The method as described in claim 1, wherein the on-line interaction experience comprises an on-line social interaction between the user and a listing user of the one or more items.
5. The method as described in claim 1, wherein developing the item metadata comprises developing the item metadata using one or more machine learning techniques, acquiring at least some of the item metadata from the website, or acquiring at least some of the item metadata from a source other than the website.
6. A method implemented by a computing device, the method comprising: receiving, by the computing device, data associated with one or more user interactions with a digital image that contains one or more item images of one or more respective items that are to be listed on a website; processing, by the computing device, the data associated with the one or more user interactions to define at least one region of interest of the digital image containing one or more items of interest; identifying, by the computing device, the one or more items of interest contained within the at least one region; responsive to identifying the one or more items of interest, developing, by the computing device, metadata associated with the one or more items of interest; using, by the computing device, the developed metadata to automatically create an item listing for the one or more items of interest to facilitate listing of the one or more items of interest on the website; and causing, by the computing device, the item listing to be automatically listed on the website effective to enable electronic perusal of the item listing via a network.
7. The method as described in claim 6, wherein developing the metadata comprises developing metadata using one or more machine learning techniques.
8. The method as described in claim 6, wherein developing the metadata comprises acquiring at least some of the metadata from the website.
9. The method as described in claim 6, wherein developing the metadata comprises acquiring at least some of the metadata from a source other than the website.
10. The method as described in claim 6, wherein the causing is performed by causing the item listing to be automatically listed on multiple different websites.
11. The method as described in claim 6, wherein one user interaction comprises a zoom operation.
12. The method as described in claim 6, wherein: using the developed metadata comprises automatically creating an item listing for multiple items of interest; and the causing comprises causing multiple item listings to be automatically listed on the website.
13. A system comprising: one or more processing systems; one or more computer-readable storage media storing instructions which, when executed by the one or more processing systems, perform operations comprising: receiving, by way of a user interface configured to enable a listing user to create an event that can be used to list one or more items online, a digital image that contains one or more item images of one or more respective items that are to be listed online by the listing user as part of the event; enabling, via the user interface, social interaction between the listing user and one or more other users regarding the one or more respective items appearing in the digital image; monitoring the social interaction between the listing user and the one or more other users; developing metadata based on the monitored social interaction, the metadata being associated with at least one or more of item availability or item price; enabling, based at least in part on the metadata, listing of the one or more respective items appearing in the digital image; automatically creating, based at least in part on the metadata, at least one item listing of the one or more respective items appearing in the digital image; and causing, based at least in part on the at least one item listing, updating of the digital image.
14. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the creating further comprises automatically creating, based at least in part on the metadata, multiple item listings that contain information associated with the one or more respective items appearing in the digital image.
15. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise updating the at least one item listing responsive to continuing to monitor the social interaction.
16. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the enabling comprises enabling one of the other users to buy the one or more items through the social interaction.
17. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the updating comprises causing display of a visual indicator indicating that a particular item has been listed.
18. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the updating comprises causing display of a visual indicator indicating that a particular item is not available.
19. The system as described in claim 13, wherein the creating comprises causing the at least one item listing to be automatically listed on multiple websites effective to enable electronic perusal of the at least one item listing via a network.
20. The system as described in claim 13, wherein developing the metadata comprises developing the metadata using one or more machine learning techniques, acquiring at least some of the metadata from the website, or acquiring at least some of the metadata from a source other than the website.
</claims>
</document>
