<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
[24]7.AI
</assignee>

<inventors>
KANNAN, PALLIPURAM V.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58691285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for linking customer interactions with customer messaging platforms
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method and an apparatus link customer interactions with customer messaging platforms. An input indicating a request for interaction with an enterprise is received from a customer and in response to the received input, a user interface (UI) is displayed requesting the customer to authenticate a personal identity using login credentials corresponding to at least one third-party messaging platform. A customer interaction is facilitated with the enterprise subsequent to successful authentication of the personal identity. The customer interaction is facilitated on an enterprise interaction channel or a third-party messaging platform from among the at least one third-party messaging platform. The third-party messaging platform corresponds to the login credentials provided by the customer to authenticate the customer's personal identity.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a processor, an input indicating a request for a chat interaction with an enterprise, the input provided by a customer of the enterprise using an electronic device; in response to the received input, causing, by the processor, display of a user interface (UI) on the electronic device; requesting, by the processor via the UI, the customer to authenticate the customer's personal identity for the enterprise by using login credentials associated with at least one third-party messaging platform; receiving, by the processor, the login credentials for authenticating the customer for the third-party messaging platform, the login credentials provided by the customer using the electronic device; with the login credentials associated with the third-party messaging platform, authenticating, by the processor, the customer's personal identity for the enterprise; linking, by the processor, the login credentials for the third-party messaging platform between at least one of the customer or the electronic device and the enterprise to facilitate authentication of the customer's personal identity for one or more requests for chat interactions with the enterprise that are received from the customer subsequent to completion of the chat interaction; subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, facilitating, by the processor, the chat interaction via the electronic device with the enterprise on one of an enterprise interaction channel or the third-party messaging platform; retrieving, by the processor, stored information corresponding to the customer subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, the stored information comprising information related to one or more past interactions of the customer with the enterprise; predicting, by the processor, one or more intentions of the customer for providing the input, the one or more intentions predicted based on the received input and the retrieved stored information; receiving, by the processor, channel presence information for a plurality of interaction channels corresponding to the customer indicating that the customer is logged into a native mobile application and that the customer is also browsing one or more Websites; receiving, by the processor, current channel attention information corresponding to the customer indicating an interaction channel that the customer is currently attentive to; and predicting, by the processor, a best next action for the customer based, at least in part, on the predicted one or more intentions and the received channel presence information and current channel attention information corresponding to the customer.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying from the input provided by the customer, by the processor, a chat interaction request for initiating a chat interaction with an agent associated with the enterprise.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the input is provided by the customer to a virtual assistant (VA) associated with the electronic device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: predicting, by the processor, the best next action based on an enterprise objective corresponding to at least one of increasing consumption of enterprise offerings and improving customer sales and service experience.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: providing, by the processor, an enterprise response to the customer to provide a personalized interaction experience to the customer based on the predicted best next action.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, by the processor, any of the login credentials or authentication information and the linking of said the login credentials or authentication information with the customer's personal identity for the enterprise.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: using the customer's personal identity linked with stored login credentials or authentication information, to facilitate one or more subsequent customer interactions with agents of the enterprise on the messaging platform.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, contextual information related to the request for interaction; and transferring, by the processor, the contextual information to an agent of the enterprise for facilitating the customer interaction on one of the enterprise interaction channel and the third-party messaging platform.
9. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor; and a memory having stored therein machine executable instructions, that when executed by the at least one processor, cause the apparatus to: receive an input indicating a request for a chat interaction with an enterprise, the input provided by a customer of the enterprise using an electronic device; in response to the received input, cause display of a user interface (UI) on the electronic device; request via the UI the customer to authenticate the customer's personal identity for the enterprise by using login credentials associated with at least one third-party messaging platform; receive the login credentials for authenticating the customer for the third-party messaging platform, the login credentials provided by the customer using the electronic device; with the login credentials associated with the third-party messaging platform, authenticate the customer's personal identity for the enterprise; link the login credentials for the third-party messaging platform between at least one of the customer or the electronic device and the enterprise to facilitate authentication of the customer's personal identity for one or more subsequent requests for chat interactions with the enterprise that are received from the customer subsequent to completion of the chat interaction; subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, facilitate the chat interaction with the enterprise on one of an enterprise interaction channel and the third-party messaging platform; retrieve stored information corresponding to the customer subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, the stored information comprising information related to one or more past interactions of the customer with the enterprise; predict one or more intentions of the customer for providing the input, the one or more intentions predicted based on the received input and the retrieved stored information; receive, by the processor, channel presence information for a plurality of interaction channels corresponding to the customer indicating that the customer is logged into a native mobile application and that the customer is also browsing one or more Websites; receive, by the processor, current channel attention information corresponding to the customer indicating an interaction channel that the customer is currently attentive to; predict a best next action for the customer based, at least in part, on the predicted one or more intentions and channel presence information and current channel attention information corresponding to the customer.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: identify from the input provided by the customer, by the processor, a chat interaction request for initiating a chat interaction with an agent associated with the enterprise.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the input is provided by the customer to a virtual assistant (VA) associated with the electronic device.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: predict the best next action based on an enterprise objective corresponding to at least one of increasing consumption of enterprise offerings and improving customer sales and service experience.
13. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: provide an enterprise response to the customer to provide a personalized interaction experience to the customer based on the predicted best next action.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: store any of the login credentials or authentication information and the linking of said store any of the login credentials or authentication information to customer's personal identity.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: use the customer identity linked to stored customer identity or authentication information, to facilitate one or more subsequent customer interactions with agents of the enterprise are facilitated on the messaging platform.
16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the apparatus is further caused to: receive contextual information related to the request for interaction; and transfer the contextual information to an agent of the enterprise for facilitating the customer interaction on one of the enterprise interaction channel and the third-party messaging platform.
17. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by a processor, an input indicating a request for a chat interaction with an agent of an enterprise, the input provided by a customer of an enterprise using an electronic device; in response to the received input, causing, by the processor, display of a user interface (UI) on the electronic device; requesting via the UI the customer to authenticate the customer's personal identity for the enterprise by using login credentials corresponding to at least one third-party messaging platform; receiving, by the processor the login credentials for authenticating the customer to the third-party messaging platform, the login credentials provided by the customer using the electronic device; with the login credentials associated with the third-party messaging platform, authenticating, by the processor, the customer's personal identity for the enterprise; linking, by the processor the login credentials for the third-party messaging platform between at least one of the customer or the electronic device and the enterprise to facilitate authentication of the customer's personal identity for one or more requests for chat interactions with the enterprise that are received from the customer subsequent to completion of the chat interaction; subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, facilitating, by the processor, the customer interaction via the electronic device with the enterprise on one of an enterprise interaction channel or the third-party messaging; retrieving, by the processor, stored information corresponding to the customer subsequent to successful authentication of the customer's personal identity, the stored information comprising information related to one or more past interactions of the customer with the enterprise; predicting, by the processor, one or more intentions of the customer for providing the input, the one or more intentions predicted based on the received input and the retrieved stored information; receiving, by the processor, channel presence information for a plurality of interaction channels corresponding to the customer indicating that the customer is logged into a native mobile application and that the customer is also browsing one or more Websites; receiving, by the processor, current channel attention information corresponding to the customer indicating an interaction channel that the customer is currently attentive to; and predicting, by the processor, a best next action for the customer based, at least in part, on the predicted one or more intentions and the received channel presence information and current channel attention information corresponding to the customer.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising: providing, by the processor, an enterprise response to the customer to provide a personalized interaction experience to the customer, the enterprise response provided to the customer based on the predicted best next action.
19. The method of claim 17, further comprising: storing, by the processor, the login credentials and the respective linking of login credentials to the at least one of the customer and the electronic device.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: facilitating one or more subsequent customer interactions with agents of the enterprise on the messaging platform using at least one of the stored login credentials and the respective linking of login credentials.
21. The method of claim 17, further comprising: receiving, by the processor, contextual information related to the request for interaction; and transferring, by the processor, the contextual information to the agent of the enterprise for facilitating the chat interaction on one of the enterprise Website and the third-party messaging platform.
</claims>
</document>
