<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-10-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALKER READING TECHNOLOGIES
WALKER READING TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
WALKER, RANDALL C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70612832
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sentence parsing correction system
</title>

<abstract>
A system provides on a computer display screen, a graphical image of an initial parsing as generated by a computerized algorithm. Individual clauses are encased in expandable graphical elements that a human user can manipulate on the display screen using an input device in furtherance of improving the initial parsing. The expandable graphical elements have particular spatial and visual interrelationships in keeping with the initial text parsing, human user interactions with the expandable graphic elements captured so as to convert the human-based interactions with these graphical elements into additional machine-readable text and mark-up that can be usable for other machine-based text processes. The system, in addition to being a parsed text/editor interface, thereby functions as an intuitive, visual conduit for dynamic human-machine text analysis collaboration.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for improved sentence parsing wherein a machine generated parsing output, corresponding to a sentence characterized by components comprising a noun, a verb and a prepositional phrase and originating from a meta-tag listing of/for same, is adapted and subject to human user assessment and select human user input in furtherance of effectuating a modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output, the human user modified adapted machine generated parsing output thereafter converted into a correspondingly renewed meta-tag listing of meta-tags of the originating meta-tag listing and renewed machine parsing in furtherance of an adapted parsing functionality for the system, the system comprising a computer processor, a display device operatively linked thereto, and a human user action element to effectuate select user actions in relation to display objects of said display device, said computer processor characterized by functional units, a first functional unit establishing, in keeping with a preselect parsing algorithm, the machine generated parsing output corresponding to the sentence characterized by components comprising a noun, a verb and a prepositional phrase, the output characterized by an initial display on said display device, said initial display characterized by the text of the sentence arranged in original text order, and having, on successive lines, the noun, the verb, and prepositional phrase of the sentence with relative indentations specifying parsing relationships among parsed components, a second functional unit establishing an adapted initial display for display upon said display device, said adapted display characterized by unique expandable container images, each parsed component enclosed within a unique expandable container image of said unique expandable container images, each of said unique expandable container images of said adapted initial display subject to select human user input via said human user action element, said select human user input comprising selecting word combinations of a parsed sentence component enclosed within a unique expandable container image for enclosure within a further unique expandable container image, said word combinations thereby having a new and consistent treatment relative to re-parsing and/or subsequent parsing, the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output thereby effectuated.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein said human user action element comprises a mouse.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said human user action element comprises a trackball.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein said human user action element comprises a touch screen, said touch screen operatively united with said display device.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein said select human user input further comprises a drag and drop action.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein select human user input relative to a select expandable container image initiates a recalculated parsing of the sentence while preserving localized syntactic inter-relationships specified via said select human user input relative to a select expandable container image.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein said computer processor is further characterized by a third functional unit, said third functional unit establishing the correspondingly renewed meta-tag listing of meta-tags of the originating meta-tag listing.
8. The system of claim 1 further characterized by an input device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, said input device permitting select user formatting of a text characterized by the modified adapted machine generated parsing output, said text displayable upon said display device.
9. The system of claim 1 further characterized by an input device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, and an output device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, input to said input device activating said output device in furtherance of reinforcing the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output.
10. The system of claim 1 further characterized by an output device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, said output device providing a supplementary user perceptible effect comprised of a visual, acoustic or tactile user perceptible effect, said supplementary user perceptible effect effectuated upon select human user input relative to a select expandable container image.
11. The system of claim 1 further characterized by a machine learning algorithm executable by said computer processor, said machine learning algorithm capturing and analyzing human user input relative to each of said unique expandable container images of said adapted initial display resulting in the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output thereby effectuated.
12. A system for improved sentence parsing wherein a machine generated parsing output, corresponding to a sentence characterized by components comprising a noun, a verb and a prepositional phrase and originating from a meta-tag listing of/for same, is adapted and subject to human user assessment and select human user input in furtherance of effectuating a modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output, the human user modified adapted machine generated parsing output thereafter converted into a correspondingly renewed meta-tag listing of meta-tags of the originating meta-tag listing and renewed machine parsing in furtherance of an adapted parsing functionality for the system, the system comprising a computer processor, a display device operatively linked thereto, and a human user action element to effectuate select user actions in relation to display objects of said display device, said computer processor characterized by functional units, a first functional unit establishing, in keeping with a preselect parsing algorithm, the machine generated parsing output corresponding to the sentence characterized by components comprising a noun, a verb and a prepositional phrase, the output characterized by an initial display on said display device, said initial display characterized by the text of the sentence arranged in original text order, and having, on successive lines, the noun, the verb, and prepositional phrase of the sentence with relative indentations specifying parsing relationships among parsed components, a second functional unit establishing an adapted initial display for display upon said display device, said adapted display characterized by unique expandable container images, each parsed component enclosed within a unique expandable container image of said unique expandable container images, each of said unique expandable container images of said adapted initial display subject to select human user input via said human user action element, the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output thereby effectuated, the system further characterized by an input device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, said input device permitting select human input comprised of select reading aloud a sentence intended for modification with a first vocal emphasis, and select re-reading aloud of the modified sentence with a second vocal emphasis, said first vocal emphasis and said second vocal emphasis being machine analyzable and correlatable with later encountered sentences of a text.
13. The system of claim 12 wherein said human user action element comprises a mouse.
14. The system of claim 12 wherein said human user action element comprises a trackball.
15. The system of claim 12 wherein said human user action element comprises a touch screen, said touch screen operatively united with said display device.
16. The system of claim 12 wherein said select human user input further comprises a drag and drop action.
17. The system of claim 12 wherein select human user input relative to a select expandable container image initiates a recalculated parsing of the sentence while preserving localized syntactic inter-relationships specified via said select human user input relative to a select expandable container image.
18. The system of claim 12 wherein said computer processor is further characterized by a third functional unit, said third functional unit establishing the correspondingly renewed meta-tag listing of meta-tags of the originating meta-tag listing.
19. The system of claim 12 further characterized by an input device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, said input device permitting select user formatting of a text characterized by the modified adapted machine generated parsing output, said text displayable upon said display device.
20. The system of claim 12 further characterized by an input device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, and an output device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, input to said input device activating said output device in furtherance of reinforcing the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output.
21. The system of claim 12 further characterized by an output device operatively linked to one or more of said computer processor, said display device and said human user action element, said output device providing a supplementary user perceptible effect comprised of a visual, acoustic or tactile user perceptible effect, said supplementary user perceptible effect effectuated upon select human user input relative to a select expandable container image.
22. The system of claim 12 further characterized by a machine learning algorithm executable by said computer processor, said machine learning algorithm capturing and analyzing human user input relative to each of said unique expandable container images of said adapted initial display resulting in the modification to the adapted machine generated parsing output thereby effectuated.
</claims>
</document>
