<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/0402,A61B5/0476,A61B5/0488,A61B5/053,A61B5/11,A61M21/00,A61M21/02,G06F3/01,G16H20/70,G16H40/63,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SRI INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCLAUGHLIN GLEN W.
DE ZAMBOTTI, MASSIMILIANO
BAKER, FIONA C.
COLRAIN, IAN M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62782581
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Immersive system for restorative health and wellness
</title>

<abstract>
A restorative health and wellness system that provides an immersive environment is provided herein. In some embodiments, the system includes one or more sensors configured to measure physiological properties of an individual and/or the properties of the individual's surroundings, one or more actuators configured to create the immersive environment for the individual, a control loop module configured to receive and analyze input from the one or more sensors, and to provide information to the actuators to create the immersive environment for the individual, wherein the one or more actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive environment based on at least one of (A) the physiological properties measured or (B) the properties of the individual's surroundings, and at least one of (A) a pre-determined individual priority balance set for the individual or (B) an optimized set of parameters determined through advanced analytic techniques.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A restorative health and wellness system that provides an immersive environment, comprising: one or more sensors configured to measure physiological properties of an individual and/or properties of surroundings of the individual; one or more actuators configured to create the immersive environment for the individual, wherein the immersive environment is an environment that attempts to improve sleep quality or relaxation by immersing the individual in an optimal environment; a control loop module configured to receive and analyze input from the one or more sensors, and to provide information to the one or more actuators to create the immersive environment for the individual; and one or more communications devices configured to facilitate communications between the one or more sensors, the one or more actuators, and the individual, wherein the one or more actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive environment based on at least one of (A) the physiological properties of the individual measured by the one or more sensors or (B) the properties of the individual's surroundings measured by the one or more sensors, and pre-determined health and wellness goals set for the individual.
2. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the optimal environment in which the individual is immersed in is one that attempts to induce increased relaxation for that individual or generates a higher sleep quality score.
3. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 2, wherein the sleep quality score is determined from at least one of the measured physiological properties and other properties including input from the individual, and the properties of the individual's surroundings, and includes at least one of a time to fall asleep, a duration of sleep, a total rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time, slow wave sleep time or a number of disruptions during night time.
4. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the properties of the individual's surroundings include signals from other individuals that are close in proximity to the individual.
5. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors are at least one of one or more sensors integrated into an immersive environment headset worn by the individual, connected to the immersive environment headset in a wired or wireless manner, facial sensors or configured to be disposed on or about the individual.
6. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 5, wherein the one or more sensors configured to measure physiological properties of an individual include at least one of a basal metabolic rate sensor configured to detect caloric burn, and EKG sensor configured to measure heartrate, an EEG sensor configured to capture and measure brainwaves to monitor states of arousal, an EMG sensor configured to monitor muscular activity to detect an individual going into a state of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, bioimpedance sensor to measure impedance cardiography, or an accelerometer configured to measure the individual's position and movement.
7. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 5, wherein the one or more sensors configured to measure the properties of the individual's surroundings include at least one of a camera, a microphone, a temperature sensor, or a light sensor, configured to provide information about a condition of the environment to ensure that settings of the headset are adjusted appropriately for ambient conditions.
8. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actuators include a speaker configured to output signals to auditory senses of the individual.
9. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 8, wherein the one or more actuators further include at least one of a video display, a vibrational device, an electro shock device, a thermal generation device, a chemical sent delivery device, or a light generation device.
10. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the immersive environment for the individual is based on at least one of the individual's favorite music, preferred audio tracks, pictures of importance, or sounds identified as comforting by the individual.
11. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the one or more actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive environment further based on an optimized set of control parameters used to drive the one or more actuators determined through a statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more sensors and wherein the optimized set of control parameters determined through the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more sensors is based on historical data collected with respect to the properties of the individual's surroundings or information about the individual.
12. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 11, wherein the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more sensors includes at least one of predictive modelling, machine learning, or data mining that analyzes current and historical facts.
13. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 11, wherein the optimized set of control parameters determined through the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more sensors is based on the use of aggregated data to train a machine learning model to provide a custom user-specific experience, the aggregated data including properties measured from other individuals and retrieved from one of a cloud computing environment and one or more external devices.
14. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 11, wherein the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more sensors include at least one of using of rule-based models where the rules may be set based on personal preferences of the individual or preferences of individuals in surroundings with common characteristics, or using if-then logic.
15. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 1, wherein the dynamically created or adjusted immersive environment induces an increased sense of presence in the individual, wherein the increased sense of presence in the individual can be measured by the one or more sensors configured to measure physiological properties of an individual.
16. A restorative health and wellness system that provides an immersive audio environment, comprising: one or more sensors configured to measure physiological properties of an individual and/or audio signals from an individual's environment; one or more audio actuators configured to create the immersive audio environment for the individual, wherein the immersive audio environment is an environment that attempts to improve sleep quality or relaxation by immersing the individual in an optimal audio environment; a control loop module configured to receive and analyze input from the one or more sensors, and to provide information to the one or more audio actuators to create the immersive audio environment for the individual; and one or more communications devices configured to facilitate communications between the one or more sensors, the one or more audio actuators, and the individual, wherein the one or more audio actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive audio environment based on at least one of (A) the physiological properties of the individual measured by the one or more sensors or (B) the audio signals from the individual's environment measured by the one or more sensors, and pre-determined health and wellness goals set for the individual.
17. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 16, wherein the optimal environment in which the individual is immersed in is one that induces increased relaxation or generates a higher sleep quality score.
18. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 17, wherein the sleep quality score is determined from the measured physiological properties and properties of the individual's surroundings and includes at least one of a time to fall asleep, a duration of sleep, a total rapid eye movement (REM) sleep time, slow wave sleep time or a number of disruptions during night time.
19. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 16, wherein the audio signals of the individual's environment include signals from other individuals that are close to the individual.
20. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 16, wherein the restorative health and wellness system uses ensemble averaging to improve SNR (signal to noise ratio) in modifying, decreasing, canceling, drowning out, or filtering the audio signals from the individual's environment.
21. The restorative health and wellness system of claim 16, wherein the restorative health and wellness system is configured with variable-depth acoustic noise cancelation capabilities and gradually "fades-out" environmental sounds if the system detects positive effects on the measure physiological properties of the individual as the environmental sounds are being gradually faded-out.
22. A computer implemented method for a restorative health and wellness system that provides an immersive environment, the method comprising: receiving, from one or more audio sensors, audio signals from an individual's environment; receiving, from one or more physiological sensors, physiological properties measured from an individual; receiving and processing the physiological properties and audio signals using a control loop module; determining, by the control loop module, whether the audio signals received are affecting an individual's physiological state; and upon determining that the audio signals received are negatively affecting the individual's physiological state, instructing one or more actuators to at least one of modify, decrease, cancel, drown out, or filter the audio signals received, wherein the one or more actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive environment based on at least one of (A) the physiological properties of the individual measured by the one or more physiological sensors or (B) properties of the surroundings of the individual measured by the one or more sensors, and pre-determined health and wellness goals set for the individual.
23. The computer implemented method of claim 22, wherein the one or more actuators dynamically create or adjust the immersive environment further based on an optimized set of control parameters used to drive the one or more actuators determined through a statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more audio sensors and wherein the optimized set of control parameters is based on historical data collected with respect to the properties of the individual's surroundings.
24. The computer implemented method of claim 23, wherein the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more audio sensors include at least one of predictive modelling, machine learning, or data mining that analyze current and historical facts to make predictions about future or otherwise unknown events.
25. The computer implemented method of claim 23, wherein the optimized set of control parameters determined through the statistical analysis of measurements taken by the one or more audio sensors is based on the use of aggregated data to train a machine learning model to provide a custom user-specific experience, the aggregated data including properties measured from other individuals and retrieved from one of a cloud computing environment and one or more external devices.
</claims>
</document>
