<document>

<filing_date>
2014-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F19/00,G09B7/00,G09B7/02,G09B7/04,G09B7/06,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HI-Q COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, MUNJAL
JIAO, SHUO
SINGH, ARDAMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55961944
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for making a human health prediction for a person through determination of health knowledge
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for predicting a health outcome of a user based on a determination of knowledge the user possesses regarding issues of physiological or mental health.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network computer system implementing a social network service, comprising: a network communication interface connecting, via one or more wireless networks, with a health service application executing on computing devices of users of the social network service; a database storing a collection of health trivia questions pertaining to human health, wherein each respective health trivia question in the collection of health questions comprises a correlative health value based on answers to the respective health question from individuals in a control group of which a health outcome is known, and wherein the collection of health trivia questions are configured to test general health knowledge of the users of the health service and not query user-specific health information of the users; a memory storing a set of instructions; one or more processors executing the set of instructions, causing the network computer system to: execute, by the network computer system, a correlation model to determine the correlative health value for each respective health trivia question in the collection of health trivia questions based on (i) the answers to the respective health trivia question provided by the individuals in the control group, and (ii) the known health outcomes of each of the individuals in the control group, wherein the correlative health value for each respective health trivia question in the collection of health trivia questions corresponds to a set of health correlations between knowledge of the respective health trivia question and the known health outcomes of the individuals in the control group; generate, through the health service application, a health trivia game for the users of the social network service, the health trivia game comprising an interactive user interface providing a sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions, from the collection of health trivia questions in the database, for the users; for a given user of the social network service, receive, over the one or more wireless networks, a response to each multiple choice health trivia question in the sequential series from a computing device of the given user; based on the response from the given user to each respective multiple choice health trivia question in the sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions, generate a health knowledge profile for the given user, the health knowledge profile indicating a knowledge level of the given user for a respective health subject corresponding to the sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions; determine at least one predicted health outcome of the given user based on (i) the health knowledge profile of the given user, and (ii) the correlative health value of each answered question in the sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions, the at least one predicted health outcome being utilized by the network computer system to provide a health service benefit for the given user; and generate a service customer interface through the interactive user interface of the health trivia game on the computing device of the given user, the service customer interface enabling the given user to obtain the health service benefit.
2. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the executed set of instructions causes the network computer system to prompt the given user, through the interactive user interface of the executing health service application, to select the response to each multiple choice health trivia question from a group of answers displayed on the interactive user interface.
3. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one predicted health outcome reflects a cost for providing healthcare to the given user in a given time period.
4. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the executed set of instructions causes the network computer system to determine the at least one predicted health outcome by categorizing the given user based on at least one of (i) a predicted number of visits the given user is expected to have at a medical health facility in a future time interval, (ii) a predicted amount of sick time the given user will incur in the future time interval, or (iii) a predicted number of prescriptions that the given user will receive over the future time interval.
5. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions comprises a subset of health trivia questions each comprising a null question that is not correlative to any particular health outcome.
6. The network computer system of claim 5, wherein the executed set of instructions further causes the network computer system to: for each response received to each multiple choice health trivia question of the sequential series, determine whether the response is correct; wherein the executed set of instructions causes the network computer system to generate the health knowledge profile for the given user based, at least in part, on a number of correct responses to the sequential series of multiple choice health trivia questions.
7. The network computer system of claim 5, wherein each multiple choice health trivia question in the sequential series comprises a difficulty level based on a percentage of the individuals of the control group who correctly answered the multiple choice health trivia question.
8. The network computer system of claim 7, wherein each null question in the sequential series also comprises a difficulty level.
9. The network computer system of claim 8, wherein the executed set of instructions further causes the network computer system to: execute a fielding and calibration model to determine the difficulty level of each multiple choice health trivia question in the sequential series.
10. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the health service benefit comprises at least one of a primary health insurance benefit, a supplemental accidental insurance benefit, or a life insurance benefit.
11. The network computer system of claim 10, wherein the health service benefit comprises a discount for the at least one of the primary health insurance benefit, the supplemental accidental insurance benefit, or the life insurance benefit.
12. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the health service benefit comprises at least one of a premium, a deductible, or a scope of coverage for a health insurance package.
13. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one predicted health outcome of the given user corresponds to at least one of a propensity for cancer, heart disease, diabetes, or hypertension.
14. The network computer system of claim 1, wherein the at least one predicted health outcome of the given user corresponds to a blood sugar level, a weight, a body fat percentage, a cholesterol level, or health longevity of the given user.
</claims>
</document>
