<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SETH, ROHIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
SETH, ROHIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56094300
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object tracking device
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a microcontroller, one or more sensors affixed to an object, and memory storing one or more programs including instructions for receiving and storing first sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to motion of the object, determining whether the first sensor data meets a first threshold, in accordance with a determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing second sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to subsequent motion of the object for as long as the second sensor data meets a second threshold, performing pattern recognition on the second sensor data, and identifying a first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: at a system including a microcontroller, one or more sensors affixed to an object, and a memory storing programs for execution by the microcontroller: receiving and storing first sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to motion of the object; determining whether the first sensor data meets a first threshold; in accordance with a determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing second sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to subsequent motion of the object for as long as the second sensor data meets a second threshold; performing pattern recognition on the second sensor data; and identifying a first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second sensor data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing pattern recognition on at least a portion of the first sensor data, wherein identifying the first position is further based on the pattern recognition of the portion of the first sensor data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing third sensor data from a second sensor of the one or more sensors in response to the subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the third sensor data; and identifying the first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second and third sensor data.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing fourth sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to additional subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the fourth sensor data; and identifying a second position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the fourth sensor data.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: tracing the first position and the second position of the object; and storing a path of the object based on the tracing.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the pattern recognition includes one or more recognition layers including at least one of: K-Nearest Neighbors, neural networks, decision trees, or hidden Markov.
7. A system comprising: one or more microcontrollers, one or more sensors affixed to an object, and memory storing one or more programs to be executed by the one or more microcontrollers, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving and storing first sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to motion of the object; determining whether the first sensor data meets a first threshold; in accordance with a determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing second sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to subsequent motion of the object for as long as the second sensor data meets a second threshold; performing pattern recognition on the second sensor data; and identifying a first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second sensor data.
8. The system of claim 7, further comprising instructions for performing pattern recognition on at least a portion of the first sensor data, wherein identifying the first position is further based on the pattern recognition of the portion of the first sensor data.
9. The system of claim 7, further comprising instructions for: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing third sensor data from a second sensor of the one or more sensors in response to the subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the third sensor data; and identifying the first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second and third sensor data.
10. The system of claim 7, further comprising instructions for: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing fourth sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to additional subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the fourth sensor data; and identifying a second position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the fourth sensor data.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising instructions for: tracing the first position and the second position of the object; and storing a path of the object based on the tracing.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the pattern recognition includes one or more recognition layers including at least one of: K-Nearest Neighbors, neural networks, decision trees, or hidden Markov.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computer system, the one or more programs including instructions for: receiving and storing first sensor data from one or more sensors affixed to an object in response to motion of the object; determining whether the first sensor data meets a first threshold; in accordance with a determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing second sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to subsequent motion of the object for as long as the second sensor data meets a second threshold; performing pattern recognition on the second sensor data; and identifying a first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second sensor data.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for performing pattern recognition on at least a portion of the first sensor data, wherein identifying the first position is further based on the pattern recognition of the portion of the first sensor data.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing third sensor data from a second sensor of the one or more sensors in response to the subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the third sensor data; and identifying the first position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the second and third sensor data.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions for: in accordance with the determination that the first sensor data meets the first threshold: receiving and storing fourth sensor data from the one or more sensors in response to additional subsequent motion; performing pattern recognition on the fourth sensor data; and identifying a second position of the object based on the pattern recognition of the fourth sensor data.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, further comprising instructions for: tracing the first position and the second position of the object; and storing a path of the object based on the tracing.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the pattern recognition includes one or more recognition layers including at least one of: K-Nearest Neighbors, neural networks, decision trees, or hidden Markov.
</claims>
</document>
