<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06N20/10,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOE TECHNOLOGY GROUP COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YINGYING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60650720
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Medical image analysis method, medical image analysis system and storage medium
</title>

<abstract>
A medical image analysis method, a medical image analysis system and a storage medium. The medical image analysis method includes: obtaining a medical image; processing the medical image by using a neural network, so as to determine a classification result of the medical image; and inputting the medical image into a computer aided diagnosis device corresponding to the classification result.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A medical image analysis method, comprising: obtaining a medical image; processing the medical image by using a neural network, so as to determine a classification result of the medical image; and inputting the medical image into a plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices corresponding to the classification result, wherein the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices are configured to respectively analyze a plurality of different features of the medical image.
2. The medical image analysis method according to claim 1, wherein the processing the medical image by using the neural network, so as to determine the classification result of the medical image comprises: extracting features of the medical image by the neural network; and classifying the medical image by a classifier based on the features of the medical image to obtain the classification result.
3. The medical image analysis method according to claim 2, wherein the classifying the medical image by the classifier based on the features of the medical image to obtain the classification result comprises: based on the features of the medical image, calculating a plurality of scores that the medical image belongs to a plurality of different categories by the classifier; and determining the classification result of the medical image according to sorting of the plurality of scores.
4. The medical image analysis method according to claim 3, wherein the plurality of scores is a plurality of prediction probabilities, and the classification result corresponds to a maximum prediction probability from the plurality of prediction probabilities.
5. The medical image analysis method according to claim 3, wherein an computer aided diagnosis device group comprises the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices, and part computer aided diagnosis devices of respective computer aided diagnosis devices in the computer aided diagnosis device group are configured to analyze features of medical images of different categories.
6. The medical image analysis method according to claim 5, wherein a quantity of computer aided diagnosis devices in the computer aided diagnosis device group is greater than a quantity of the plurality of scores.
7. The medical image analysis method according to claim 1, wherein before obtaining the medical image, the medical image analysis method further comprises: in a training phase, training the neural network with sample images in a medical image database to generate a parameter of the neural network.
8. The medical image analysis method according to claim 7, wherein a loss function in the training phase comprises a log-likelihood loss function, and the log-likelihood loss function is expressed as:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?C=−ln ay description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein C denotes the log-likelihood loss function, y denotes a category of the medical image, and ay denotes a prediction probability corresponding to y.
9. A medical image analysis system, connected with a plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices, comprising: a neural network, comprising an input layer and an output layer; an image acquisition device connected with the input layer of the neural network; and the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices being connected with the output layer of the neural network, wherein: the image acquisition device is configured to obtain a medical image; the neural network is configured to: receive and process the medical image, so as to determine a classification result of the medical image, and input the medical image into the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices according to the classification result; and the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices are configured to respectively analyze a plurality of different features of the medical image.
10. The medical image analysis system according to claim 9, wherein the neural network comprises a classifier, the neural network is configured to extract features of the medical image, and the classifier is configured to classify the medical image based on the features of the medical image to obtain the classification result.
11. The medical image analysis system according to claim 10, wherein the classifier comprises at least one of a support vector machine (SVM) classifier and a SoftMax classifier.
12. The medical image analysis system according to claim 11, wherein the classifier is configured to: based on the features of the medical image, calculate a plurality of scores that the medical image belongs to a plurality of different categories; and determine the classification result of the medical image according to sorting of the plurality of scores.
13. The medical image analysis system according to claim 12, wherein the plurality of scores is a plurality of prediction probabilities, and the classification result corresponds to a maximum prediction probability from the plurality of prediction probabilities.
14. The medical image analysis system according to claim 13, wherein an computer aided diagnosis device group comprises the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices, and part computer aided diagnosis devices of respective computer aided diagnosis devices of the computer aided diagnosis device group are configured to analyze features of medical images of different categories.
15. The medical image analysis system according to claim 14, wherein a quantity of computer aided diagnosis devices in the computer aided diagnosis device group is greater than a quantity of the plurality of scores.
16. The medical image analysis system according to claim 9, wherein the neural network is a convolutional neural network.
17. A medical image analysis system, connected with a plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices, comprising: a storage, configured to store non-transitory computer-readable instructions; and a processor, configured to execute the non-transitory computer-readable instructions, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable instructions, as executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform steps including: obtaining a medical image; processing the medical image by using a neural network, so as to determine a classification result of the medical image; and inputting the medical image into the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices corresponding to the classification result, wherein the plurality of computer aided diagnosis devices are configured to respectively analyze a plurality of different features of the medical image.
18. The medical image analysis system according to claim 17, wherein processing the medical image by using the neural network, so as to determine the classification result of the medical image comprises: extracting features of the medical image by the neural network; and classifying the medical image by a classifier based on the features of the medical image to obtain the classification result.
19. The medical image analysis system according to claim 18, wherein classifying the medical image by the classifier based on the features of the medical image to obtain the classification result comprises: based on the features of the medical image, calculating a plurality of scores that the medical image belongs to a plurality of different categories by the classifier; and determining the classification result of the medical image according to sorting of the plurality of scores.
20. A storage medium, configured to store non-transitory computer-readable instructions, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable instructions, as executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform the medical image analysis method according to claim 1.
</claims>
</document>
