<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/69,H04L27/26,H04L5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENGHISCOMM HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHATTIL, STEVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71731699
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Orthogonal multiple access and non-orthogonal multiple access
</title>

<abstract>
Enhanced discrete Fourier transform spread Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (DFT-s-OFDM) selects spreading code roll-off factors based on available spectrum resources in a wireless network and power efficiency needs of at least one wireless device. Excess spectral resources can be used to increase processing gain and reduce peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR), both of which improve a wireless device's power efficiency. Each layer can employ a portion of the DFT-s-OFDM code space in an OFDM symbol for orthogonal multiple access or non-orthogonal multiple access, allowing multiple layers to share the same OFDM symbol. Both uplink and downlink transmissions can benefit from frequency diversity and low PAPR due to DFT-s-OFDM spreading. Since DFT-s-OFDM codes are cyclic shifts of each other, a DFT-s-OFDM discrete-time signal can be synthesized from cyclic shifts of a kernel discrete-time waveform.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of communication by a wireless device configured for communicating in a wireless network, comprising: spreading a data signal with at least one spreading code to produce a spread data signal; and modulating the spread data signal onto an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) signal to generate a discrete-time spread-OFDM signal to be transmitted in a communication link; wherein spreading employs a function of a power-efficiency criterion for the wireless device or a spectral efficiency criterion for the communication link, for selecting one of a plurality of spreading code roll-off factors that provides the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal with a low Peak-to-Average-Power Ratio (PAPR); and wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one of a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provide for a different capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a fixed set of resource blocks; or wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one of a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provide for a constant capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a variable set of resource blocks.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the spectral efficiency criterion comprises occupancy or availability of resource blocks in the communication link, and the spectral efficiency criterion is determined by listening to at least one of a random access channel, an uplink control channel, an uplink shared channel, a downlink control channel, or a downlink shared channel.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein at least one of the spectral efficiency criterion and the power efficiency criterion is determined from at least one of Hybrid Automated Repeat Request Acknowledgement, Scheduling Requests, Channel State Information, downlink data scheduling, Channel Quality Indicator, Pre-coding Matrix Indicator, Rank Indicator, Layer Indicator, uplink scheduling grants, slot format indications, preemption indications, or power control information.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the communication link is a downlink, an uplink, a relay link or a peer-to-peer link; or wherein access to resources is grant-based or grant-free; or wherein the wireless device is a base transceiver station, a user equipment, a relay, or a cooperative group of wireless devices; or wherein the OFDM signal is configured for at least one of orthogonal multiple access or non-orthogonal multiple access.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the spreading and modulating includes providing for a kernel discrete-time signal corresponding to a first code space; and performing a cyclic shift of the kernel discrete-time signal to produce a shifted discrete-time signal corresponding to a second code space, the shifted discrete-time signal being employed in the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the spreading and modulating is configured for at least one of enhanced mobile broadband communications, machine-type communications, ultra-reliable low-latency communications, millimeter wave communications, device-to-device communications, proximity services, mobile edge computing, vehicular network communications, or Internet-of-Things communications.
7. An apparatus for wireless communications, comprising: at least one processor; and at least one computer-readable memory in electronic communication with the at least one processor, and instructions stored in the at least one computer-readable memory, the instruction executable by the at least one processor for: spreading a data signal with at least one spreading code to produce a spread data signal; and modulating the spread data signal onto an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) signal to generate a discrete-time spread-OFDM signal to be transmitted in a communication link; wherein spreading comprises selecting one of a plurality of spreading code roll-off factors that provides the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal with a low Peak-to-Average-Power Ratio (PAPR), wherein the one of the plurality of spreading code roll-off factors is selected based on a function of a power-efficiency criterion for the apparatus or a spectral efficiency criterion for the communication link; and wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provides for a different capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a fixed set of resource blocks; or wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one of a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provide for a constant capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a variable set of resource blocks.
8. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the spectral efficiency criterion comprises occupancy or availability of resource blocks in the communication link, and the spectral efficiency criterion is determined by listening to at least one of a random access channel, an uplink control channel, an uplink shared channel, a downlink control channel, or a downlink shared channel.
9. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein at least one of the spectral efficiency criterion and the power efficiency criterion is determined from at least one of Hybrid Automated Repeat Request Acknowledgement, Scheduling Requests, Channel State Information, downlink data scheduling, Channel Quality Indicator, Pre-coding Matrix Indicator, Rank Indicator, Layer Indicator, uplink scheduling grants, slot format indications, preemption indications, or power control information.
10. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the communication link is a downlink, an uplink, a relay link, or a peer-to-peer link; or wherein access to resources is grant-based or grant-free; or wherein the at least one processor is in a base transceiver station, a user equipment, a relay, or a cooperative group of wireless devices; or wherein the OFDM signal is configured for at least one of orthogonal multiple access and non-orthogonal multiple access.
11. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the spreading and modulating comprises providing for a kernel discrete-time signal corresponding to a first code space; and performing a cyclic shift of the kernel discrete-time signal to produce a shifted discrete-time signal corresponding to a second code space, the shifted discrete-time signal being employed in the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal.
12. The apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal is configured for at least one of enhanced mobile broadband communications, machine-type communications, ultra-reliable low-latency communications, millimeter wave communications, device-to-device communications, proximity services, mobile edge computing, vehicular network communications, or Internet-of-Things communications.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, for: spreading a data signal with at least one spreading code to produce a spread data signal; and modulating the spread data signal onto an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing (OFDM) signal to generate a discrete-time spread-OFDM signal to be transmitted in a communication link; wherein spreading comprises selecting one of a plurality of spreading code roll-off factors that provides the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal with a low Peak-to-Average-Power Ratio (PAPR), wherein the one of the plurality of spreading code roll-off factors is selected based on a function of a power-efficiency criterion for the apparatus or a spectral efficiency criterion for the communication link; and wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provides for a different capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a fixed set of resource blocks; or wherein the spreading code roll-off factor is one of a plurality of selectable spreading code roll-off factors that provide for a constant capacity when the OFDM signal comprises a variable set of resource blocks.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the spectral efficiency criterion comprises occupancy or availability of resource blocks in the communication link, and the spectral efficiency criterion is determined by listening to at least one of a random access channel, an uplink control channel, an uplink shared channel, a downlink control channel, or a downlink shared channel.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein at least one of the spectral efficiency criterion and the power efficiency criterion is determined from at least one of Hybrid Automated Repeat Request Acknowledgement, Scheduling Requests, Channel State Information, downlink data scheduling, Channel Quality Indicator, Pre-coding Matrix Indicator, Rank Indicator, Layer Indicator, uplink scheduling grants, slot format indications, preemption indications, or power control information.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the communication link is a downlink, an uplink, a relay link, or a peer-to-peer link; or wherein access to resources is grant-based or grant-free; or wherein the at least one processor is in a base transceiver station, a user equipment, a relay, or a cooperative group of wireless devices; or wherein the OFDM signal is configured for at least one of orthogonal multiple access and non-orthogonal multiple access.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the spreading and modulating comprises providing for a kernel discrete-time signal corresponding to a first code space; and performing a cyclic shift of the kernel discrete-time signal to produce a shifted discrete-time signal corresponding to a second code space, the shifted discrete-time signal being employed in the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 13, wherein the discrete-time spread-OFDM signal is configured for at least one of enhanced mobile broadband communications, machine-type communications, ultra-reliable low-latency communications, millimeter wave communications, device-to-device communications, proximity services, mobile edge computing, vehicular network communications, or Internet-of-Things communications.
</claims>
</document>
