<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
YI XING
GOLBANDI, NADAV
HONG, LIANGJIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60420818
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computerized system and method for optimizing the display of electronic content card information when providing users digital content
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed are systems and methods for improving interactions with and between computers in content generating, searching, hosting and/or providing systems supported by or configured with personal computing devices, servers and/or platforms. The systems interact to identify and retrieve data within or across platforms, which can be used to improve the quality of data used in processing interactions between or among processors in such systems. The disclosed systems and methods leverage the display screen sizes of information cards to improve the accuracy and efficiency of displayed search results. The disclosed systems and methods can be implemented in search and recommendation systems for optimally performing a search and displaying the results of the search based on, among other features, the size of the cards providing each search result and the display size of the screen displaying such results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising steps of: receiving, at a computing device, a request for content that is to be communicated to a user for display on a device of the user; searching, via the computing device, a database of network resources for said content, said search comprising analyzing said network resources and compiling a set of search results, said search result set comprising an information card for each result in the set, said information cards comprising digital content associated with at least one network resource; analyzing, via the computing device, the digital content of each information card, said analysis comprising determining a relevance score of the content of each card respective to the received request, and based on said relevance score for each card, ranking the search result set; determining, via the computing device, a user effort value for each card in the ranked result set, said determination comprising analyzing each card's position in the ranked result set and determining said user effort value at said position, said user effort providing an indication of the activity that must be performed in order to interact with a card when it is displayed at a position; determining, via the computing device, said display size of each card in said ranked set, said display size determination comprising computing a summation score for each card based on each card's relevance score and user effort value, said display size for each card is based on said summation score for each card, said display size providing an indication as to a screen size said card will occupy when displayed; re-ranking, via the computing device, said ranked result set, said re-ranking comprising determining a maximal ideal score for each card based on each card's summation score, said re-ranking is based on said determined ideal scores; and communicating, via the computing device, said re-ranked result set to said user for display on said user device, said communication causing said cards in the re-ranked result set to be displayed on said user device according to said re-ranking.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said relevance score determination further comprises: analyzing digital content of each card and determining a relevance of said content to said received request, said analysis comprising comparing said digital content to said requested content and determining said relevance score, wherein said determined relevance score is a card-level relevance score, said card-level relevance score providing an indication as to the relevance of each card as a whole to the received request.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein said analysis and comparison of the digital content includes the computing device executing software defining a learning-to-rank machine-learning (MLR) ranking technique selected from a group consisting of: mean average precision (MAP), Precision@(k), Recall@k, NDCG, NDCG@k and Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR).
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said relevance score determination further comprises: analyzing digital content of each card and determining a relevance of said content to said received request, said analysis comprising parsing said digital content in each card in order to identify each content object in each card, and comparing, for each card, each content object to said requested content and determining said relevance score for each card, wherein said determined relevance score is a link-level relevance score, said link-level relevance score providing an indication as to the relevance of individual content included in the digital content of each card.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein said analysis and comparison of the digital content includes the computing device executing software defining a learning-to-rank machine-learning (MLR) ranking technique selected from a group consisting of: mean average precision (MAP), Precision@(k), Recall@k, NDCG, NDCG@k and Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR).
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said user effort, E(j), determination comprises performing:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?E(j)=sum_k(Si,k/alpha)(k=1, . . . ,j−1),description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein, Si,k denotes the size of a card type Ci at rank position k, wherein the sum is over rank position 1 to j−1, and wherein alpha is a predetermined constant.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein each information card comprises interactive digital content having associated therewith hyperlinked content actionable when interacted with.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said re-ranking further comprises: determining the display size of each card by performing:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?Precision@UsrEffort(k)=(number of relevant cards a user can browse to from rank position 1 to rank position j when user effort is at most UsrEffort(k))/number of cards below rank position j),description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein UsrEffort(k) is a predetermined value, wherein j is computed by the minimal user effort E(j)=sum_k(Si,k/alpha)(k=1, . . . j−1)>=UsrEffort(k); and determining said re-ranked result set based on Precision@UsrEffort(k).
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said communication of the re-ranked result set causes said cards in said set to be displayed in a formation comprising an orientation selected from a group consisting of: horizontal, vertical, horizontal and vertical, rotational, and a combination thereof, wherein said formation is based upon said re-ranking.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a context of the digital content in the cards of the communicated set; causing communication, over the network, of said context to an advertisement platform to obtain digital advertisement content associated with said context; and communicating another card comprising said identified digital advertisement content with said communicated result set.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium tangibly encoded with computer-executable instructions, that when executed by a processor associated with a social networking server, performs a method comprising: receiving a request for content that is to be communicated to a user for display on a device of the user; searching a database of network resources for said content, said search comprising analyzing said network resources and compiling a set of search results, said search result set comprising an information card for each result in the set, said information cards comprising digital content associated with at least one network resource; analyzing the digital content of each information card, said analysis comprising determining a relevance score of the content of each card respective to the received request, and based on said relevance score for each card, ranking the search result set; determining a user effort value for each card in the ranked result set, said determination comprising analyzing each card's position in the ranked result set and determining said user effort value at said position, said user effort providing an indication of the activity that must be performed in order to interact with a card when it is displayed at a position; determining said display size of each card in said ranked set, said display size determination comprising computing a summation score for each card based on each card's relevance score and user effort value, said display size for each card is based on said summation score for each card, said display size providing an indication as to a screen size said card will occupy when displayed; re-ranking said ranked result set, said re-ranking comprising determining a maximal ideal score for each card based on each card's summation score, said re-ranking is based on said determined ideal scores; and communicating said re-ranked result set to said user for display on said user device, said communication causing said cards in the re-ranked result set to be displayed on said user device according to said re-ranking.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein said relevance score determination further comprises: analyzing digital content of each card and determining a relevance of said content to said received request, said analysis comprising comparing said digital content to said requested content and determining said relevance score, wherein said determined relevance score is a card-level relevance score, said card-level relevance score providing an indication as to the relevance of each card as a whole to the received request.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein said relevance score determination comprises the computing device executing software defining a learning-to-rank machine-learning (MLR) ranking technique selected from a group consisting of: mean average precision (MAP), Precision@(k), Recall@k, NDCG, NDCG@k and Mean Reciprocal Rank (MRR).
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein said relevance score determination further comprises: analyzing digital content of each card and determining a relevance of said content to said received request, said analysis comprising parsing said digital content in each card in order to identify each content object in each card, and comparing, for each card, each content object to said requested content and determining said relevance score for each card, wherein said determined relevance score is a link-level relevance score, said link-level relevance score providing an indication as to the relevance of individual content included in the digital content of each card.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein said user effort, E(j), determination comprises performing:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?E(j)=sum_k(Si,k/alpha)(k=1, . . . ,j−1),description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein, Si,k denotes the size of a card type Ci at rank position k, wherein the sum is over rank position 1 to j−1, and wherein alpha is a predetermined constant.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein each information card comprises interactive digital content having associated therewith hyperlinked content actionable when interacted with.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 11, wherein said re-ranking further comprises: determining the display size of each card by performing:
description="In-line Formulae" end="lead"?Precision@UsrEffort(k)=(number of relevant cards a user can browse to from rank position 1 to rank position j when user effort is at most UsrEffort(k))/number of cards below rank position j),description="In-line Formulae" end="tail"? wherein UsrEffort(k) is a predetermined value, wherein j is computed by the minimal user effort E(j)=sum_k(Si,k/alpha)(k=1, . . . j−1)>=UsrEffort(k); and determining said re-ranked result set based on Precision@UsrEffort(k).
18. A computing device comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the program logic comprising: logic executed by the processor for receiving a request for content that is to be communicated to a user for display on a device of the user; logic executed by the processor for searching a database of network resources for said content, said search comprising analyzing said network resources and compiling a set of search results, said search result set comprising an information card for each result in the set, said information cards comprising digital content associated with at least one network resource; logic executed by the processor for analyzing the digital content of each information card, said analysis comprising determining a relevance score of the content of each card respective to the received request, and based on said relevance score for each card, ranking the search result set; logic executed by the processor for determining a user effort value for each card in the ranked result set, said determination comprising analyzing each card's position in the ranked result set and determining said user effort value at said position, said user effort providing an indication of the activity that must be performed in order to interact with a card when it is displayed at a position; logic executed by the processor for determining said display size of each card in said ranked set, said display size determination comprising computing a summation score for each card based on each card's relevance score and user effort value, said display size for each card is based on said summation score for each card, said display size providing an indication as to a screen size said card will occupy when displayed; logic executed by the processor for re-ranking said ranked result set, said re-ranking comprising determining a maximal ideal score for each card based on each card's summation score, said re-ranking is based on said determined ideal scores; and logic executed by the processor for communicating said re-ranked result set to said user for display on said user device, said communication causing said cards in the re-ranked result set to be displayed on said user device according to said re-ranking.
</claims>
</document>
