<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G06F16/9535,G06F17/27,G06F17/30,G06F40/30,G06F40/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ITRI (INDUSTRIAL TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH INSTITUTE)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIU, CHUNG-JEN
LI, CHING-HSIEN
SHEN, MIN-HSIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58227311
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Internet question answering system and method, and computer readable recording media
</title>

<abstract>
An internet question answering method is applied in an internet question answering system. A current-turn user question is received. Based on a discourse labeling model, a discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as "discourse continue" or "discourse end" online and real-time. Based on the discourse of the current-turn user question, whether to clear at least one discourse of an old boundary is determined. The internet question answering system answers the current-turn user question. A match degree between a next-turn user question and the segment of the dialog log is compared to determine whether the discourse of the current-turn user question is correct, whether to correct the discourse of the current-turn user question, and whether to adjust the discourse labeling model by using the current-turn user question.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An internet question answering method for an internet question answering system having a display, the internet question answering method including: receiving and displaying a current-turn user question on the display of the internet question answering system; labeling a discourse of the current-turn user question as "discourse continue (DC)" or "discourse end (DE)" online and real-time based on a discourse labeling model; determining whether to clear at least one discourse of an old boundary based on the discourse of the current-turn user question; on-line feeding back an answer to the current-turn user question on the display by the internet question answering system; and evaluating a degree of matching between a next-turn user question and the old boundary to determine whether the discourse of the current-turn user question is correct, whether to correct the discourse of the current-turn user question, and whether to adjust the discourse labeling model by using the current-turn user question, wherein when the discourse of the current-turn user question is corrected based on the degree of matching between the next-turn user question and the old boundary evaluated by said evaluating, the discourse labeling model is on-line adjusted based on the corrected discourse of the current-turn user question; when the discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as DE, the discourses in the old boundary are cleared, and a dialog log and the discourses in the old boundary are ignored in answering the next-turn user question; and DE is determined by the internet question answering system, or DE is triggered by a user discourse end event and detected by the internet question answering system.
2. The internet question answering method according to claim 1, wherein in labeling the discourse of the current-turn user question online and real-time, a corresponding confidence value of the discourse is labeled.
3. The internet question answering method according to claim 1, wherein the step of clearing the at least one discourse of the old boundary includes clearing an information of the at least one discourse of the old boundary, the information of the at least one discourse including a linguistic text information and a meta information; the linguistic text information includes at least one sentence of a boundary, and a keyword, a morphological feature, a semantic concept, a sentence type and implied topics of the at least one sentence; and the meta information includes a discourse end time, a user idle period, a user browse record, a transaction record of the at least one discourse.
4. The internet question answering method according to claim 1, wherein if the next-turn user question and the old boundary is determined to be matched, determination is made that it is wrong to label the current-turn user question as DE, and the discourse of the current-turn user question is corrected from DE as DC.
5. The internet question answering method according to claim 1, further comprising: if the discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as DC, detecting whether the user discourse end event appears.
6. The internet question answering method according to claim 5, wherein if the discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as DC and the user discourse end event appears, the discourse of the current-turn user question is corrected from DC as DE.
7. The internet question answering method according to claim 6, wherein the user discourse end event includes any one or a combination thereof: a reset-icon-pressed-by-user event; a user transaction event; a user browse event; and an idle-period-over-threshold event.
8. The internet question answering method according to claim 1, further including: training the discourse label model.
9. The internet question answering method according to claim 8, wherein the step of training the discourse label model further includes: collecting a user dialog log in a user dialog log database; and collecting the user discourse end event and an event background information.
10. The internet question answering method according to claim 9, wherein the event background information includes any one or any combination of: a reset time, a question answering turn record, a user idle period, a user browse record and a user transaction record.
11. A non-transitory computer-readable recording media storing a program, wherein when a computer loads and executes the program, the internet question answering method according to claim 1 is executed.
12. An internet question answering system including: a display for displaying a current-turn user question; an online and real-time sentence discourse labeling module, for labeling a discourse of the current-turn user question as "discourse continue (DC)" or "discourse end (DE)" online and real-time based on a discourse label model; a discourse clearing and answering module, for determining whether to clear at least one discourse of an old boundary based on the discourse of the current-turn user question, and for on-line feeding back an answer to the current-turn user question on the display; a comparison module, for evaluating a degree of matching between a next-turn user question and the old boundary to determine whether the labeled discourse of the current-turn user question is correct or not; a discourse label correction module, for determining whether to correct the discourse of the current-turn user question based on a determination result of the comparison module; and a discourse label model adjustment module, for determining whether the current-turn user question is used in adjusting the discourse label model based on the determination result of the comparison module, wherein when the discourse label correction module determines to correct the discourse of the current-turn user question based on the degree of matching between the next-turn user question and the old boundary evaluated by the comparison module, the discourse labeling model is on-line adjusted based on the corrected discourse of the current-turn user question; when the discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as DE, the discourse clearing and answering module clears the discourses in the old boundary, and the discourse clearing and answering module ignores a dialog log and the discourses in the old boundary in answering the next-turn user question; and DE is determined by the online and real-time sentence discourse labeling module, or DE is triggered by a user discourse end event and detected by the internet question answering system.
13. The internet question answering system according to claim 12, wherein the online and real-time sentence discourse labeling module labels a corresponding confidence value of the discourse.
14. The internet question answering system according to claim 12, wherein the discourse clearing and answering module clears an information of the at least one discourse of the old boundary, the information of the at least one discourse including a linguistic text information and a meta information; the linguistic text information includes at least one sentence of boundary, and a keyword, a morphological feature, a semantic concept, a sentence type and implied topics of the at least one sentence; and the meta information includes a discourse end time, a user idle period, a user browse record, a transaction record of the at least one discourse.
15. The internet question answering system according to claim 12, wherein if the comparison module determines that the next-turn user question and the old boundary are matched, the comparison module determines that it is wrong to label the current-turn user question as DE, and the discourse label correction module corrects the discourse of the current-turn user question from DE as DC.
16. The internet question answering system according to claim 12, further comprising a user discourse end event detection module, for detecting whether the user discourse end event appears if the discourse of the current-turn user question is labeled as DC.
17. The internet question answering system according to claim 16, wherein if the online and real-time sentence discourse labeling module labels the discourse of the current-turn user question as DC and the user discourse end event detection module detects appearance of the user discourse end event, the discourse label correction module corrects the discourse of the current-turn user question from DC as DE.
18. The internet question answering system according to claim 17, wherein the user discourse end event includes any one or a combination thereof: a reset-icon-pressed-by-user event; a user transaction event; a user browse event; and an idle-period-over-threshold event.
19. The internet question answering system according to claim 12, further including: a discourse label model train module, for training the discourse label model.
20. The internet question answering system according to claim 19, further including: a question answering recording module, for collecting a user dialog log in a user dialog log database; and a user discourse end event collection module, for collecting the user discourse end event and an event background information.
21. The internet question answering system according to claim 20, wherein the event background information includes any one or any combination of: a reset time, a question answering turn record, a user idle period, a user browse record and a user transaction record.
</claims>
</document>
