<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06F3/048,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0486,G06F40/205,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CABACCANG, JAMIE R.
HAWTHORNE, BRYANT DANIEL
JACKSON, ANDREW AUSTIN
JOHNSON, MATTHEW STEVEN
LONG, DONNA KATHERINE
MALTEZOS, MARIO EMMANUEL
SADAK, CHRISTIAN MICHAEL
SANTISTEBAN, ADOLFO HERNANDEZ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67842559
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Polymorphic smart context-aware lists
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to enabling a user of data-sharing applications executing on a computing device to indirectly exchange objects between the applications by adding objects from the applications to a journal application that manages a display area. The objects are displayed in the display area. The journal application collects metadata related to the objects and automatically curates lists of the objects according to the metadata. Curation of a list may involve moving objects into a list, merging objects, creating new objects out of content of existing objects, grouping objects according to a commonality thereof, etc. Machine learning services may be invoked to acquire additional metadata about the objects and to make curation decisions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a computing device comprising processing hardware and computing hardware, the method comprising: executing an application comprising a displayable graphic view, the application receiving objects added to the graphic view, the application storing the received objects, the stored objects comprising respective content items of respective diverse content types, the graphic view concurrently displaying graphic object representations of the respective stored objects in the graphic view, wherein the objects are received by the application from other applications via a cut-and-paste or drag-and-drop service of an operating system of the computing device; based on the objects being dropped into the graphic view, parsing, by the application, the content items of the respective objects to identify attributes of the objects, and based on the attributes of the objects, identifying a group feature of the objects having graphic object representations in the graphic view; and based on the identified group feature, automatically transforming, by the application, one or more of the stored objects, and correspondingly transforming the graphic object representations of the respective one or more stored objects.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the objects are added to the application according to user drag-and-drop inputs directed to the other applications from which the objects are dragged before being dropped into the graphic view.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the feature comprises a topic or subject derived from the content of the objects.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the application includes a list object managed by the application, wherein the list object is represented by a list graphic in the graphic view, is originated by the application and is not received via the cut-and-paste service, the method further comprising managing, by the application, the type, content, or graphic object representations of objects in the list object, wherein the list object is configured to enable manual addition of objects to the list object by dragging corresponding graphic object representations onto the list, and wherein dragging and dropping a graphic object representation onto the list triggers a curation operation.
5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the identifying the group feature is further based on context information managed by the application and associated with the objects.
6. A method according to claim 5, wherein the context information comprises one or more of: an indication of an application that has provided an object to the application, an indication of an application that has received an object from the application, user annotations inputted to the application without the cut and paste service, or GUI state of the application that is settable by user input.
7. A computing device comprising: a display; processing hardware; storage hardware storing instructions configured to cause the processing hardware to perform a process comprising: executing an application that stores and manages a collection of objects displayed on the display within a graphical user interface of the application, the objects comprising heterogenous content types obtained from other applications executing on the computing device through a copy-and-paste or drag-and-drop service executing on the computing device, wherein the application is configured to receive objects of arbitrary content types from the other applications through the copy-and-paste or drag-and-drop service; managing, by the application, a list object automatically curated by the application based on the content of objects in the collection, the list object generated by the application and not received from another application, the list object having a corresponding list graphic displayed in the graphical user interface of the application; and performing curation operations on the list object, the curation operations including automatically transforming a data type of an object in the list object, automatically moving an object to the list object and correspondingly displaying the object in the list object, and/or setting a property of the list object based on metadata about the objects in the graphical user interface.
8. A computing device according to claim 7, wherein the curating of the list is performed by a machine learning service that provides bases for curation operations to be performed on the list.
9. A computing device according to claim 8, wherein the machine learning service provides a basis for the curating according to contextual data associated with the list.
10. A computing device according to claim 9, wherein the basis comprises a commonality among the objects in the list that is determined by the machine learning service.
11. A computing device according to claim 7, wherein the curating comprises transforming an object or a graphic representation thereof in the list, the transforming based on the object being in the list.
12. A computing device according to claim 7, wherein the curating comprises transforming a feature of the list, the feature comprising a datatype, a topic, a keyword, and/or format.
13. A computing device according to claim 7, wherein the curating comprises adding an object to the list or removing an object from the list.
14. A computing device according to claim 13, wherein the adding an object comprises extracting content from an object in the list and using the extracted content to construct the added object, and removing the object comprises merging two objects in the list.
15. A storage device storing instructions configured to cause a computing device to perform a process comprising: managing a display area by an application comprising the display area, the display area displaying, by a display of the computing device, graphic representations of respective heterogenous objects comprising heterogenous types of content, the heterogenous objects having been added to the display area by being interactively selected within, and imported via a cut-and-paste or drag-and-drop service, from other applications; and providing, to a machine learning algorithm, indicia obtained from, or associated with, the objects, and obtaining from the machine learning algorithm a group feature identified by the machine learning algorithm from the indicia, the group feature corresponding to the objects in the aggregate; automatically selecting and transforming, by the application, one or more of the objects according to the group feature, wherein the one or more objects are selected based on having a property determined to correspond to the group feature.
16. A storage device according to claim 15, the transforming comprising transforming the graphic representations respectively corresponding to the one or more of the objects according to the feature.
17. A storage device according to claim 15, wherein the feature comprises a topic, user-intent, or commonality among the objects, and wherein objects in a plurality of the objects are automatically organized in a list according to the feature, and wherein a graphic representation of the list is generated by the application and displayed in the display area, the graphic representation of the list comprising graphic representations of the respective objects in the plurality.
18. A storage device according to claim 15, wherein the transforming comprises extracting a piece of information from one of the objects according to the feature and changing the graphic representation of the one of the objects to represent the extracted piece of information.
19. A storage device according to claim 15, wherein the transforming comprises one or more of: automatically forming the objects into a list curated by the application, automatically changing a data type of an object, changing a graphic representation of an object, or changing a data type or application type of a list object containing one or more of the objects.
20. A storage device according to claim 15, the process further comprising collecting metadata from the objects and curating the list based on the collected metadata.
</claims>
</document>
