<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-03-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/024,A61B5/0476,A61B5/053,B60R16/023,B60W40/08,B60W40/09,B64C39/02,G01C21/34,G01C21/36,G05D1/00,G05D1/02,G06F16/29,G06N20/00,G06Q20/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/30,G07B15/00,G07B15/06,G07C5/00,G08G1/01,G08G1/065,G08G1/07,G08G1/09,G08G1/0962,G08G1/0965,G08G1/0967,G08G1/0968,H04B1/3822,H04B7/185,H04L29/08,H04L9/32,H04M15/00,H04W12/08,H04W4/024,H04W4/029,H04W4/40,H04W4/42,H04W4/48,H04W4/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INRIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
SCOFIELD, CHRISTOPHER, L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54055737
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Condition-based lane suggestions for travel advising
</title>

<abstract>
Users who are traveling on a path between a first location and a second location may be informed by navigation devices about the user's selected route. The path may also feature two or more lanes, which may present comparative advantages (e.g., a toll-restricted lane may present less traffic, and a toll-free lane may present more traffic at a reduced cost). Presented herein are techniques for enabling navigation devices to advise users about the lanes of the path. A travel service may collect information about the respective lanes, such as traffic density and the typical travel duration of users utilizing the lane during various periods, and may transmit information about the predicted travel durations of the respective lanes to the device. Such information may enable the device to advise the user to choose a selected lane, according to the predicted travel durations of the lanes of the path.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of facilitating a user traveling a path between a first location and a second location and having at least two lanes, the method using a device having a processor and comprising: executing on the processor instructions that cause the device to: for respective lanes of the path, receive from a travel service a predicted travel duration of the lane between the first location and the second location, wherein: the predicted travel duration is based on a travel condition of the lane; and at least one lane is associated with a lane cost for users traveling in the lane; compare the predicted travel durations of the lanes of the path to identify a selected lane that presents a comparative advantage for a selected travel condition over other lanes of the path, wherein identifying the selected lane comprises: comparing the predicted travel durations of the lanes of the path with lane costs of the lanes to identify the selected lane; choose a presentation condition to advise the user to choose the selected lane; and responsive to occurrence of the presentation condition, advise the user to choose the selected lane while traveling the path between the first location and the second location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: at least one lane is associated with a lane restriction for users traveling in the lane; the execution of the instructions on the processor further causes the device to, for the respective lanes, determine whether the user satisfies the lane restriction of the lane; and identifying the selected lane further comprises: comparing the predicted travel durations of the lanes of the path for which the user satisfies the lane restriction of the lane to identify the selected lane.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the user has a cost sensitivity; and identifying the selected lane further comprises: comparing the predicted travel durations of the lanes of the path with the lane costs of the lanes and the cost sensitivity of the user to identify the selected lane.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the execution of the instructions on the processor further causes the device to: monitor a driving behavior of the user to detect at least one lane selection by the user of a second lane having a second lane cost; and based on the at least one lane selection by the user and the second lane cost of the second lane, determine the cost sensitivity of the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the cost sensitivity of the user comprises: presenting to the user a presentation including a first lane cost of a first lane and a predicted travel lane duration reduction as compared with another lane; and detecting a lane selection of the user in response to the presentation.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: choosing the presentation condition comprises: choosing a presentation time at which to advise the user to choose the selected lane; and advising the user comprises: responsive to detecting an arrival of the presentation time, advising the user to choose the selected lane while traveling the path between the first location and the second location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: choosing the presentation condition comprises: choosing a presentation location along the path at which to advise the user to choose the selected lane; and advising the user comprises: responsive to detecting an arrival of the user at the presentation location along the path, advising the user to choose the selected lane while traveling the path between the first location and the second location.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein: choosing the presentation condition comprises: identifying a user behavior for which the user is to be advised to choose the selected lane; and advising the user comprises: detecting an occurrence of the user behavior; and responsive to the occurrence of the user behavior, advising the user to choose the selected lane while traveling the path between the first location and the second location.
9. A method of providing a travel service to users respectively traveling on a path, the method using a device having a processor and comprising: executing on the processor instructions that cause the device to: upon receiving from a first user a travel report indicating a travel condition for a lane of a path between a first location and a second location during a period, store the travel report; for respective lanes of the path between the first location and the second location, determine, for respective periods, a typical travel duration for the lane according to travel conditions during the period and a typical travel condition for the lane of the path; and upon receiving from a second user a request for one or more predicted travel durations of a selected lane of the path during a selected period, provide a predicted travel duration based on the typical travel duration for the selected lane of the path during the selected period and a presentation condition to advise the second user to choose the selected lane while traveling in the selected lane of the path, wherein providing the predicted travel duration for the selected lane comprises: identifying a lane condition of the selected lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the selected period; and providing the predicted travel duration based on the lane condition and the typical travel duration for the selected lane of the path during the selected period.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the travel report received from the first user specifies at least one intermediate location of the first user while traveling the path between the first location and the second location; and executing the instructions on the processor further causes the device to determine, from the at least one intermediate location, the lane of the path of the first user while traveling the path between the first location and the second location.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein: executing the instructions on the processor further causes the device to: determine, for respective first users of a first user set traveling the path between the first location and the second location during the period, a travel duration of the first user; generate a histogram of travel durations of the first users of the first user set; identify an arithmetic mean of the travel durations of the histogram; and associate the arithmetic mean of the travel duration with the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period; and determining the typical travel durations of the respective lanes of the path comprises: selecting the travel duration associated with the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein: the travel report indicates a speed of the first user while traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location; and determining the typical travel durations of the respective lanes of the path comprises: estimating the typical travel duration of the lane according to speeds of users of a first user set, including the first user, users traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among travel durations of users of a first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting a shortest travel duration.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among travel durations of users of a first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting an average travel duration.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among travel durations of users of a first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting a longest travel duration.
16. A method of providing a travel service to users respectively traveling on a path, the method using a device having a processor and comprising: executing on the processor instructions that cause the device to: upon receiving from a first user a travel report indicating a travel condition for a lane of a path between a first location and a second location during a period, store the travel report; for respective lanes of the path between the first location and the second location, determine, for respective periods, a typical travel duration for the lane according to travel conditions during the period and a typical travel condition for the lane of the path, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among travel durations of users of a first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting at least one of a shortest travel duration, an average travel duration, or a longest travel duration; and upon receiving from a second user a request for one or more predicted travel durations of a selected lane of the path during a selected period, provide a predicted travel duration based on the typical travel duration for the selected lane of the path during the selected period and a presentation condition to advise the second user to choose the selected lane while traveling in the selected lane of the path.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among the travel durations of the users of the first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting the shortest travel duration.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among the travel durations of the users of the first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting the average travel duration.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the typical travel duration of a lane of the path comprises: among the travel durations of the users of the first user set, including the first user, traveling the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period, selecting the longest travel duration.
20. A method of providing a travel service to users respectively traveling on a path, the method using a device having a processor and comprising: executing on the processor instructions that cause the device to: upon receiving from a user a travel report indicating a travel condition for a lane of a path between a first location and a second location during a period, store the travel report; determine, for respective first users of a first user set, including the user, traveling the path between the first location and the second location during the period, a travel duration of the first user; generate a histogram of the travel durations of the first users of the first user set; identify an arithmetic mean of the travel durations of the histogram; associate the arithmetic mean of the travel duration with the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period; for respective lanes of the path between the first location and the second location, determine, for respective periods, a typical travel duration for the lane according to travel conditions during the period and a typical travel condition for the lane of the path, wherein determining the typical travel durations of the respective lanes of the path comprises: selecting the travel duration associated with the lane of the path between the first location and the second location during the period; and upon receiving from a second user a request for one or more predicted travel durations of a selected lane of the path during a selected period, provide a predicted travel durations based on the typical travel duration for the selected lane of the path during the selected period and a presentation condition to advise the second user to choose the selected lane while traveling in the selected lane of the path.
</claims>
</document>
