<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPLUNK
</assignee>

<inventors>
TSIRONIS, GEORGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63916937
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enabling user definition of anomaly action rules in a network security system
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments include a method performed by a computer system. The method includes receiving first user input defining a filter of an anomaly action rule, the filter defining at least one of an attribute of an anomaly or an attribute of a computer network entity. The method also includes receiving second user input defining an action of the anomaly action rule. The method further includes generating the anomaly action rule based on the first user input and the second user input, wherein the anomaly action rule causes performance of the action upon detecting an anomaly on the computer network that satisfies the anomaly action rule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving user selection of an action for an anomaly action rule, the selected action to be performed on a matching anomaly that satisfies the anomaly action rule, the selected action being from a list including adding the matching anomaly to a watchlist, removing the matching anomaly from the watchlist, changing an anomaly score of the matching anomaly, or deleting the matching anomaly; receiving user selection of a filter for the anomaly action rule from among a library of predefined filters, the selected filter defining an attribute of the matching anomaly, the matching anomaly being a detectable variation from an expected pattern of behavior by a computer network entity; receiving user input customizing the attribute of the selected filter for the anomaly action rule to filter a particular anomaly; configuring the anomaly action rule based on the selected action, the selected filter, and the input customizing the attribute of the selected filter; and causing performance of the selected action on the particular anomaly on a computer network, the particular anomaly corresponding to the matching anomaly that matches the customized attribute of the selected filter for anomaly action rule, the computer network including the computer network entity.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the computer network entity is a user, a device, or a session of the computer network.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to receiving the user selection of the filter of the anomaly action rule: receiving user input initiating a process for generating the anomaly action rule.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, in a memory, an entry for each of a plurality of anomaly action rules including the anomaly action rule, each entry including an anomaly action rule name and an action of the anomaly action rule, an identifier of a user that created the anomaly action rule, or a point in time at which the anomaly action rule was created.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, in a memory, an entry for each of a plurality of anomaly action rules including the anomaly action rule, each entry including an anomaly action rule name and an indication of whether the anomaly action rule is enabled or disabled.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is adding the matching anomaly from the watchlist to or removing the matching anomaly from the watchlist such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is added to the watchlist or removed from the watchlist, respectively.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is changing the anomaly score of the matching anomaly such that a score associated with each anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is changed.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is changing the anomaly score of the matching anomaly such that a score associated with each anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is changed to a designated value.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is changing the anomaly score of the matching anomaly such that a score associated with each anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is increased by a designated amount.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is changing the anomaly score of the matching anomaly such that a score associated with each anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is decreased by a designated amount.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein actions in the list include adding the matching anomaly to the watchlist, removing the matching anomaly from the watchlist, changing the anomaly score of the matching anomaly, and deleting the matching anomaly.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to configuring the anomaly action rule: receiving user input defining a rule scope that is one of: applying the anomaly action rule only to unregistered anomalies; or applying the anomaly action rule to unregistered and registered anomalies.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly action rule is applied only to unregistered anomalies.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the anomaly action rule is applied to unregistered anomalies and registered anomalies.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is deleting the matching anomaly such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is deleted.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is deleting the matching anomaly such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is permanently deleted.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is deleting the matching anomaly such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is saved to a trash data store, wherein an anomaly saved to the trash data store is recoverable from the trash data store for subsequently detecting a security threat to the computer network.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is one of: saving anomalies to a trash data store such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is saved to the trash data store; and permanently deleting any anomaly such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is permanently deleted.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected action is deleting the matching anomaly such that any anomaly satisfying the anomaly action rule is saved to a trash data store, the method further comprising: restoring an anomaly saved to the trash data store as a basis for identifying a security threat to the computer network.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected filter includes a criterion for the computer network entity.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the attribute of the selected filter of the anomaly action rule is one of: an anomaly category; an anomaly type; an anomaly watchlist; an anomaly log format; an anomaly associated with a user of the computer network; an anomaly associated with a device of the computer network; an anomaly associated with an application of the computer network; or an anomaly associated with a domain of the computer network.
22. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to configuring the anomaly action rule: receiving user input defining a property of the anomaly action rule.
23. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to configuring the anomaly action rule: receiving user input defining properties of the anomaly action rule, the properties including a rule name and a rule description.
24. The method of claim 1, wherein the selected filter defines the attribute of the matching anomaly and an attribute of an entity of the computer network.
25. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, in a memory, the anomaly action rule, including information specifying the selected action and the selected filter; receiving user input to retrieve the anomaly action rule stored in the memory; receiving user input to edit the anomaly action rule; storing the edited anomaly action rule in the memory; and executing the edited anomaly action rule upon detecting an anomaly on the computer network that satisfies the edited anomaly action rule.
26. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to configuring the anomaly action rule: receiving user input defining a rule scope that is one of: applying the anomaly action rule only to unregistered anomalies; or applying the anomaly action rule to unregistered and registered anomalies; and receiving user input defining a property of the anomaly action rule.
27. The method of claim 1, wherein performance of the selected action comprises executing the selected action in real-time upon detecting the particular anomaly on the computer network that satisfies the anomaly action rule.
28. A computer system, comprising: a processor; and memory containing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the computer system to: receive user selection of an action for an anomaly action rule, the selected action to be performed on a matching anomaly that satisfies the anomaly action rule, the selected action being from a list including adding the matching anomaly to a watchlist, removing the matching anomaly from the watchlist, changing an anomaly score of the matching anomaly, or deleting the matching anomaly; receive user selection of a filter for the anomaly action rule from among a library of predefined filters, the selected filter defining an attribute of the matching anomaly, and the matching anomaly being a detectable variation from an expected pattern of behavior by a computer network entity; receive user input customizing the attribute of the selected filter for the anomaly action rule to filter a particular anomaly; configure the anomaly action rule based on the selected action, the selected filter, and the input customizing the attribute of the selected filter; and cause performance of the selected action on the particular anomaly on a computer network, the particular anomaly corresponding to the matching anomaly that matches the customized attribute of the selected filter for anomaly action rule, the computer network including the computer network entity.
29. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium storing instructions, an execution of which in a processing system causes the processing system to perform operations, comprising: receiving user selection of an action for an anomaly action rule, the selected action to be performed on a matching anomaly that satisfies the anomaly action rule, the selected action being from a list including adding the matching anomaly to a watchlist, removing the matching anomaly from the watchlist, changing an anomaly score of the matching anomaly, or deleting the matching anomaly; receiving user selection of a filter for the anomaly action rule from among a library of predefined filters, the selected filter defining an attribute of the matching anomaly, and the matching anomaly being a detectable variation from an expected pattern of behavior by a computer network entity; receiving user input customizing the attribute of the selected filter for the anomaly action rule to filter a particular anomaly; configuring the anomaly action rule based on the selected action, the selected filter, and the input customizing the attribute of the selected filter; and causing performance of the selected action on the particular anomaly on a computer network, the particular anomaly corresponding to the matching anomaly that matches the customized attribute of the selected filter for anomaly action rule, the computer network including the computer network entity.
</claims>
</document>
