<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F3/0488,G06F40/103
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIN, YU-CHUN
WANG, TING-YI
LAI, PING-HUNG
CHUNG, CHUN-SHENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65360460
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing objects on touch screen devices
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for processing objects on touch screen devices is proposed. According to the method, one or more grid sizes is determined, wherein the one or more grid sizes comprise one or more text grid sizes. The one or more text grid sizes are determined by at least one of character, word, sentence, and section. Based on the one or more grid sizes, the one or more objects on the touch screen could be divided into one or more grids. The objects on the screen could be selected discontinuously by selecting grids on the screen.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system, comprising: a processor; a computer-readable memory coupled to the processor, the memory comprising instructions that when executed by the processor perform actions of: determining one or more grid sizes, on a touchscreen, wherein the one or more grid sizes comprise one or more text grid sizes, wherein the one or more text grid sizes are based on text size display and page zoom percentage, and wherein determining the one or more grid sizes further comprises: determining a predefined text size; determining one or more visual text sizes; and determining the one or more text grid sizes based on a comparison of at least the predefined text size and the one or more visual text sizes, wherein when the visual text size is less than the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a sentence; wherein when the visual text size is equal to the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a word; and wherein when the visual text size is larger than the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a character; dividing one or more objects on a screen into one or more grids based on at least the one or more text grid sizes; detecting a text area being touched in the one or more text grid sizes; determining a maximum font size of text within the text area being touched, wherein the maximum font size of text is based on the text size display and the page zoom percentage; adjusting the one or more text grid sizes based on the text area being touched; selecting entire contents of the one or more text grid sizes by a single touch; selecting one or more objects, by one or more touches, that are discontinuously distributed on the screen, wherein the one or more objects units comprise all objects within the one or more grids; and storing the selected one or more objects, and its respective sequence, in memory for further operation.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the actions further comprise: determining one or more changed text grid sizes.
3. The computer system of claim 2, wherein determining one or more changed text grid sizes further comprises: determining one or more changed visual text sizes; and determining the one or more changed text grid sizes based on a comparison of at least the one or more changed visual text sizes and a predefined text size.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more grid sizes further comprises: determining one or more figure grid sizes; recognizing one or more texts in one or more figures associated with the one or more figure grid sizes; and determining the one or more text grid sizes of the one or more texts in the one or more figures.
5. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising: processing the selected one or more object units, that are discontinuously distributed and selected on the screen, according to an order of selecting the one or more object units.
6. A computer program product, comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to: determine one or more grid sizes, on a touchscreen, wherein the one or more grid sizes comprise one or more text grid sizes, wherein the one or more text grid sizes are based on text size display and page zoom percentage, and wherein determining the one or more grid sizes further comprises: determining a predefined text size; determining one or more visual text sizes; and determining the one or more text grid sizes based on a comparison of at least the predefined text size and the one or more visual text sizes, wherein when the visual text size is less than the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a sentence; wherein when the visual text size is equal to the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a word; and wherein when the visual text size is larger than the predefined text size, the text grid size encompasses a character; divide one or more objects on a screen into one or more grids based on at least the one or more text grid sizes; detect a text area being touched in the one or more text grid sizes; determine a maximum font size of text within the text area being touched, wherein the maximum font size of text is based on the text size display and the page zoom percentage; adjust the one or more text grid sizes based on the text area being touched; select entire contents of the one or more text grid sizes by a single touch; select one or more objects, by one or more touches, that are discontinuously distributed on the screen, wherein the one or more objects comprise all objects within the one or more grids; and store the selected one or more objects, and its respective sequence, in memory for further operation.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program instructions executable by the processor further cause the processor to: determine one or more changed text grid sizes.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program instructions to determine one or more changed text grid sizes further comprise program instructions executable by the processor to cause the processor to: determine one or more changed visual text sizes; and determine the one or more changed text grid sizes based on a comparison of at least the one or more changed visual text sizes and a predefined text size.
9. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program instructions to determine the one or more grid sizes further comprise program instructions executable by the processor to cause the processor to: determine one or more figure grid sizes; recognize one or more texts in one or more figures associated with the one or more figure grid sizes; and determine the one or more text grid sizes of the one or more texts in the one or more figures.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program instructions executable by a processor further cause the processor to: process the selected one or more object units, that are discontinuously distributed and selected on the screen, according to an order of selecting the one or more object units.
</claims>
</document>
