<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2012-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/00,G06F3/01,G06K9/00,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PIXART IMAGING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, NIEN-TSE
LIN, HAN-CHANG
WANG, GUO-ZHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57588702
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic system with eye protection
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic system including a display device, an image sensor, a face detection engine, an eye detection engine and an eye protection engine is provided. The image sensor captures an image. The face detection engine recognizes a user face in the image. The eye detection engine recognizes user eyes in the image. The eye protection engine turns off the display device when the user eyes are recognized in the image but the user face is not recognized in the image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic system, comprising: an image sensor having a predetermined field of view and configured to capture an image; a display screen; and a signal processor electrically coupled to the image sensor and the display screen, and configured to recognize a face of a user in the image using face detection, recognize eyes of the user in the image using eye detection, and control the display screen to show a warning notice when the eyes are recognized in the eye detection but the face is not recognized in the face detection, and switch off the display screen when the warning notice is not turned off within a predetermined time interval, wherein the face is not recognized when the image does not contain a complete face of the user, or when the image does not contain both the eyes and a mouth of the user.
2. The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: a proximity sensor configured to detect whether an object is close to the electronic system; and a camera configured to capture a picture to be displayed on the display screen or stored in a memory, wherein the image sensor is not included in the proximity sensor or the camera.
3. The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the signal processor is further configured to switch off the display screen when the face and the eyes are not recognized.
4. The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the predetermined field of view of the image sensor is previously arranged according to an operable range of the electronic system.
5. The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the image sensor is turned on full-timely when a predetermined Application is running.
6. The electronic system as claimed in claim 1, wherein the signal processor is further configured to select a window of interest in the image and recognize whether the face is within the window of interest of the image, select the window of interest in the image and recognize whether the eyes are within the window of interest of the image, and control the display screen to show the warning notice thereon when the eyes are recognized within the window of interest of the image but the face is not recognized within the window of interest of the image.
7. The electronic system as claimed in claim 6, wherein the window of interest of the image is previously selected according to an operable range of the electronic system.
8. An electronic system, comprising: an image sensor having a predetermined field of view and configured to capture an image; a signal processor electrically coupled to the image sensor, and configured to recognize a face of a user in the image using face detection, and recognize eyes of the user in the image using eye detection; and a display screen configured to display with a brightness when (i) the eyes are recognized by the signal processor and (ii) the face is recognized by the signal processor, and reduce the brightness when the eyes are recognized by the signal processor in the eye detection but the face is not recognized by the signal processor in the face detection due to the user being too close to the display screen, wherein the face is not recognized when the image does not contain a complete face of the user, or when the image does not contain both the eyes and a mouth of the user.
9. The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the display screen is switched off when the eyes and the face are not recognized by the signal processor.
10. The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the predetermined field of view of the image sensor is previously arranged according to an operable range of the electronic system.
11. The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, further comprising: a proximity sensor configured to detect whether an object is close to the electronic system; and a camera configured to capture a picture to be displayed on the display screen or stored in a memory, wherein the image sensor is not included in the proximity sensor or the camera.
12. The electronic system as claimed in claim 8, wherein the signal processor is further configured to select a window of interest in the image and recognize whether the face is within the window of interest of the image, and select the window of interest in the image and recognize whether the eyes are within the window of interest of the image, and the display screen is configured to display with the brightness when (i) the eyes are recognized within the window of interest of the image and (ii) the face is recognized within the window of interest of the image.
13. The electronic system as claimed in claim 12, wherein the window of interest of the image is previously selected according to an operable range of the electronic system.
14. An electronic system, comprising: an image sensor having a predetermined field of view and configured to capture an image; a display screen; and a signal processor electrically coupled to the image sensor and the display screen, and configured to recognize a face of a user in the image using face detection, recognize eyes of the user in the image using eye detection, and control a speaker to play a warning voice when the eyes are recognized in the eye detection but the face is not recognized in the face detection due to the user being too close to the display screen, wherein the face is not recognized when the image does not contain a complete face of the user, or when the image does not contain both the eyes and a mouth of the user.
15. The electronic system as claimed in claim 14, further comprising: a proximity sensor configured to detect whether an object is close to the electronic system; and a camera configured to capture a picture to be displayed on the display screen or stored in a memory, wherein the image sensor is not included in the proximity sensor or the camera.
16. The electronic system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the signal processor is further configured to switch off the display screen when the face and the eyes are not recognized.
17. The electronic system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the image sensor is turned on full-timely when a predetermined Application is running.
18. The electronic system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the signal processor is further configured to select a window of interest in the image and recognize whether the face is within the window of interest of the image, select the window of interest in the image and recognize whether the eyes are within the window of interest of the image, and control the speaker to play the warning voice when the eyes are recognized within the window of interest of the image but the face is not recognized within the window of interest of the image.
19. The electronic system as claimed in claim 18, wherein the window of interest of the image is previously selected according to an operable range of the electronic system.
20. The electronic system as claimed in claim 14, wherein the predetermined field of view of the image sensor is previously arranged according to an operable range of the electronic system.
</claims>
</document>
