<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KCURA CORPORATION
RELATIVITY ODA
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAUTHIER, BRANDON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74190961
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Header recognition techniques for an email threading tool
</title>

<abstract>
In a computer-implemented method for facilitating recognition of header fields in electronic communication documents, header definition data is received at a computing system from a remote client device. The header definition data defines one or more characteristics of a first header format, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more header fields. A first electronic communication document that includes text-based content is received and, using the header definition data, values of the one or more header fields within the text-based content of the first electronic communication document are determined. Using the determined values of the one or more header fields, an ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and one or more other electronic communication documents is determined, and metadata indicating the ordered relationship is stored.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for facilitating recognition of header fields in electronic communication documents, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving at a computing system, from a remote client device via a network, header definition data defining one or more characteristics of a first header format, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more header fields; receiving, by one or more processors of the computing system, a first electronic communication document that includes text-based content, the text-based content including a plurality of conversation segments, and the plurality of conversation segments including one or more headers; determining, by the one or more processors and using the header definition data, values of the one or more header fields within the one or more headers of the plurality of conversation segments; determining, by the one or more processors and using the determined values of the one or more header fields, an ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and one or more other electronic communication documents; and storing, by the one or more processors, metadata indicating the ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents to facilitate user review of at least the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents via an electronic document review tool.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: causing a user interface to be provided to a user at the remote client device, wherein receiving header definition data includes receiving header definition data that was generated based on user inputs entered via the user interface.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein causing a user interface to be provided to a user at the remote client device includes causing the electronic document review tool to present the user interface to the user.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein causing the electronic document review tool to present the user interface to the user includes causing the electronic document review tool to present a user interface configured to: display a test electronic communication document to the user; display prompts to the user, the prompts indicating which portions of the test electronic communication document should be tagged by the user; and detect user inputs corresponding to user tags of various portions of the test electronic communication document made in response to the prompts.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving header definition data includes receiving one or more rules that define the one or more characteristics.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving header definition data includes receiving one or more regular expressions that define the one or more characteristics, and wherein the one or more characteristics include one or more header field partial keywords.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more of the following header fields: a field indicating a sender of a given electronic communication document; a field indicating a recipient of the given electronic communication document; a field indicating a date on which the given electronic communication document was sent; or a field indicating a time at which the given electronic communication document was sent.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein receiving header definition data includes: receiving language priority data indicating an order in which each of a plurality of languages is to be considered when attempting to determine header field values for a given electronic communication document.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: causing an electronic document review tool to present, to a user of the remote client device, an indication of the ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents.
10. A computing system comprising: an electronic document database; one or more processors; and one or more memories storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing system to receive, from a remote client device via a network, header definition data defining one or more characteristics of a first header format, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more header fields, retrieve, from the electronic document database, a first electronic communication document that includes text-based content, the text-based content including a plurality of conversation segments, and the plurality of conversation segments including one or more headers, determine, using the header definition data, values of the one or more header fields within the one or more headers of the plurality of conversation segments, determine, using the determined values of the one or more header fields, an ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and one or more other electronic communication documents, and store metadata indicating the ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents to facilitate user review of at least the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents via an electronic document review tool.
11. The computing system of claim 10, wherein: the instructions further cause the computing system to cause the electronic document review tool present a user interface to a user at the remote client device; and the header definition data includes data that was generated based on user inputs entered via the user interface.
12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the instructions cause the computing system to cause the electronic document review tool to present the user interface to the user at least by causing the electronic document review tool to present a user interface configured to: display a test electronic communication document to the user; display prompts to the user, the prompts indicating which portions of the test electronic communication document should be tagged by the user; and detect user inputs corresponding to user tags of various portions of the test electronic communication document made in response to the prompts.
13. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the header definition data includes one or both of (i) one or more rules that define the one or more characteristics, and (ii) one or more regular expressions that define the one or more characteristics.
14. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more of the following header fields: a field indicating a sender of a given electronic communication document; a field indicating a recipient of the given electronic communication document; a field indicating a date on which the given electronic communication document was sent; or a field indicating a time at which the given electronic communication document was sent.
15. The computing system of claim 10, wherein the header definition data includes language priority data indicating an order in which each of a plurality of languages is to be considered when attempting to determine header field values for a given electronic communication document.
16. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive, from a remote client device via a network, header definition data defining one or more characteristics of a first header format, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more header fields; receive a first electronic communication document that includes text-based content, the text-based content including a plurality of conversation segments, and the plurality of conversation segments including one or more headers; determine, using the header definition data, values of the one or more header fields within the one or more headers of the plurality of conversation segments; determine, using the determined values of the one or more header fields, an ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and one or more other electronic communication documents; and store metadata indicating the ordered relationship between the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents to facilitate user review of at least the first electronic communication document and the one or more other electronic communication documents via an electronic document review tool.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein: the instructions further cause the one or more processors to cause the electronic document review tool present a user interface to a user at the remote client device; and the header definition data includes data that was generated based on user inputs entered via the user interface.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the instructions cause the one or more processors to cause the electronic document review tool to present the user interface to the user at least by causing the electronic document review tool to present a user interface configured to: display a test electronic communication document to the user; display prompts to the user, the prompts indicating which portions of the test electronic communication document should be tagged by the user; and detect user inputs corresponding to user tags of various portions of the test electronic communication document made in response to the prompts.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the one or more characteristics include one or both of (i) keywords or partial keywords, and (ii) positions, corresponding to one or more of the following header fields: a field indicating a sender of a given electronic communication document; a field indicating a recipient of the given electronic communication document; a field indicating a date on which the given electronic communication document was sent; or a field indicating a time at which the given electronic communication document was sent.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the header definition data includes language priority data indicating an order in which each of a plurality of languages is to be considered when attempting to determine header field values for a given electronic communication document.
</claims>
</document>
