<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/18,H04W24/00,H04W4/02,H04W4/14,H04W4/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PEDERSEN; ROBERT D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59631338
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multicast expert system information dissemination system and method
</title>

<abstract>
Multicast expert system information dissemination systems and methods making use of artificial intelligence are provided. The systems and methods include a wireless device for receiving RF multicast information messages from a content provider wherein said information is descriptive of objects potentially of interest to users of the device. Received multicast messages may include information parameters about objects of potentially interest to the user. The wireless device also includes a knowledge base prestored in the wireless device descriptive of the user's level of interest in various objects. Artificial intelligence expert system control is used to evaluate a combination of the user's level of interest in the object information and distance from the user to the location where the object may be obtained. The artificial intelligence expert system derives a user advisory action index. In one embodiment the artificial intelligence may be implemented using fuzzy logic inference engine apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A specifically programmed mobile communication computer system with at least one specialized communication computer machine including artificial intelligence expert system decision making electronic capability, comprising: one or more RF multicast transceivers for receiving multicast information transmissions; a non-transient memory having at least one portion for storing data and at least one portion for storing particular computer executable program code; and at least one processor for executing the particular program code stored in the memory, wherein the particular program code is configured to perform at least the following operations upon the execution; electronically storing in said memory information defining one or more objects or situations of interest to a user of said of said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system and communicating that information to a content provider of said objects or situations; electronically receiving by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF multicast addressed signals comprising information descriptive of said objects or situations indicated to the content provider by the user as being of interest to said user and available from said content provider, said RF multicast signals having defined limited coverage area from said content provider thereby reducing required signal spectrum in areas too far from said objects or situations to be of interest to any user resulting in more efficient use of the RF signal spectrum, minimizing signal transmission power requirements, minimizing signal processing requirements of users too far from the object or situation of interest and users not interested in said object or situation, and protection of user privacy, electronically determining by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system whether the received multicast RF addressed signal is intended for reception by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system; electronically decoding by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system the received multicast RF signal to determine information parameters about at least one of said objects or situations of interest to the user comprising one or more information parameters identifying the object or situation location and one or more of the following: i) at least one first information parameter identifying said object or situation type, ii) at least one second information parameter comprising a description of said object or situation, iii) at least one third information parameter identifying said object or situation price or cost; electronically determining by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system the location of the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system using a location sensor without communicating information permitting the content provider determination of the location of the user of the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system; performing by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system artificial intelligence expert system operations comprising at least the following: electronic artificial intelligence expert system analysis of the received object or situation information and object or situation information prestored in said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system descriptive of the user's level of interest selected from ranges of possible levels of interest in that object or situation; electronic artificial intelligence expert system determination of the distance or travel time between the location of said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system and the location where the object or situation may be obtained wherein the travel time may take into account factors such as road conditions, traffic congestion, police or other emergency alerts; and, electronic artificial intelligence expert system analysis and decision making based on expert knowledge input with multiple propositional expert system instructions defining multiple ranges of user level of interest in said object or situation and multiple ranges of distance or travel time between the user and said object or situation wherein said propositional expert system instructions comprise inference procedures defining multiple conditional parameter relationships; electronic artificial intelligence expert system generation of communication to said user an advisory action index indicating advisability of additional inquiry or pursuit of said object or situation based on user level of interest parameters and distance or travel time from user location to said object or situation thereby reducing cognitive distraction to said user of said system by presenting said composite advisory index to said user without requiring said user to make cognitive distractive evaluation of multiple combinations of multiple parameters in attempt to make a decision on the advisability of additional inquiry or pursuit of said object or situation.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a cellular telephone network transmitter.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a Wi-Fi signal transmitter.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a Bluetooth signal transmitter.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a Bluetooth Piconet signal transmitter.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system received RF multicast addressed signals are modulated using a form of frequency modulation.
7. The system of claim 6 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver includes multiple antennas.
8. The system of claim 6 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system said received RF multicast addressed signals are transmitted from a source with multiple antennas.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver includes multiple transceivers.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver comprises a directional antenna.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver comprises an omnidirectional antenna.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a content provider via an information aggregator.
13. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system receives said RF multicast addressed signals from a content provider via a service provider.
14. The system of claim 1 wherein limiting areas covered by said RF multicast addressed signals minimizes receipt and decoding of unwanted signals by uninterested users or users too far from the object or situation or subject to be of interest to those users.
15. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver is paired with another transceiver for RF signal transmission and reception.
16. The system of claim 15 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF transceiver and the paired transceiver are located in a vehicle.
17. The system of claim 1 wherein the object or situation of interest to the user is located at a venue different than the location of the content provider.
18. The system of claim 1 wherein multiple specifically programmed mobile communication computer systems are organized into one or more subgroups with common interests to receive RF multicast signal advisory messages intended for individual subgroups without said systems disclosing their location to the content provider, service providers or aggregators.
19. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system content provider may be moved to different locations.
20. The system of claim 1 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system artificial intelligence expert system control circuitry further comprises fuzzy logic inference control circuitry.
21. A method of operating a specifically programmed mobile communication computer system with at least one specialized communication computer machine including artificial intelligence expert system decision making electronic capability, comprising: one or more RF multicast transceivers for receiving multicast information transmissions, a non-transient memory having at least one portion for storing data and at least one portion for storing particular computer executable program code, and at least one processor for executing the particular program code stored in the memory, wherein the particular program code is configured to at least perform the following operations upon the execution; the step of electronically storing in said memory information defining objects or situations of interest to a user of said of said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system and communicating that information to a content provider of said objects or situations; the step of electronically receiving by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system RF multicast addressed signals comprising information descriptive of objects or situations indicated to said content provider by the user as being of interest to said user, said RF multicast signals having defined limited coverage area from said content provide thereby reducing required signal spectrum in areas too far from the object or situation to be of interest to any user resulting in more efficient use of the RF signal spectrum, minimizing signal transmission power requirements, minimizing signal processing requirements of users too far from the object or situation of interest and users not interested in said object or situation, and protection of user privacy, the step of electronically determining by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system whether the received multicast RF addressed signal is intended for reception by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system; the step of electronically decoding by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system the received multicast RF signal to determine information parameters about an object or situation of interest to the user comprising one or more information parameters identifying the object or situation location and one or more of the following: i) at least one first information parameter identifying said object or situation type, ii) at least one second information parameter comprising a description of said object or situation, iii) at least one third information parameter identifying said object or situation price or cost; the step of electronically determining by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system the location of the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system using a location sensor without communicating information permitting said content provider determination of the location of the user of the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system; the step of performing by the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system artificial intelligence expert system operations comprising at least the following: the step of electronic artificial intelligence expert system analysis of the received object or situation information and object or situation information prestored in said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system descriptive of the user's level of interest selected from ranges of possible levels of interest in that object or situation; the step of electronic artificial intelligence expert system determination of the distance or travel time between the location of said specifically programmed mobile communication computer system and the location where the object or situation may be obtained wherein the travel time may take into account factors such as road conditions, traffic congestion, police or other emergency alerts; and, the step of electronic artificial intelligence expert system analysis and decision making based on expert knowledge input with multiple propositional expert system instructions defining multiple ranges of user level of interest in said object or situation and multiple ranges of distance or travel time between the user and said object or situation wherein said propositional expert system instructions comprise inference procedures defining multiple conditional parameter relationships; the step of electronic artificial intelligence expert system generation of communication to said user an advisory action index indicating advisability of additional inquiry or pursuit of said object or situation based on user level of interest parameters and distance or travel time from user location to said object or situation thereby reducing cognitive distraction to said user of said system by presenting said composite advisory index to said user without requiring said user to make cognitive distractive evaluation of multiple combinations of multiple parameters in attempt to make a decision on the advisability of additional inquiry or pursuit of said object or situation.
22. The method of claim 21 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system artificial intelligence expert system control circuitry further comprises fuzzy logic inference control circuitry.
23. The method of claim 21 wherein the object or situation of interest to the user is located at a venue different than that of the location of the content provider.
24. The method of claim 21 wherein the specifically programmed mobile communication computer system content provider may be moved to different locations.
</claims>
</document>
