<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2458,G06F16/435,G06N20/00,H04L29/08,H04N21/2187,H04N21/231,H04N21/25,H04N21/258
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DIGITAL KEYSTONE
</assignee>

<inventors>
VANTALON, LUC
SICCARDO, PAOLO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838800
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatuses for a caching recommendation engine
</title>

<abstract>
A Caching Recommendation Engine in one embodiment improves the delivery quality of IP services by performing real-time reinforcement learning of the content distribution network behavior, and continuously computing caching recommendations by leveraging novel Artificial Intelligence (AI) techniques to maximize the content distribution network caching efficiency and performance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for improving the cache performance of a content distribution network (CDN), by learning the behavior of the CDN and controlling the CDN with updated parameters based on the learned behavior, the method comprising: a) computing for each event representation, a request profile representative of collected media element requests to a Content Origination system (COS) received from a CDN and recording the request profile for future use; b) mining for a current collection interval and for each event representation, all the recorded request profiles that relate to content requested during a reference collection interval that occurred one analytic period ago relative to the current collection interval; c) defining an new caching recommendation on a per event and per representation basis for the current collection interval, where the new caching recommendation is calculated based on the caching recommendation per event and per representation issued during the reference collection interval, and on the mined data to statistically reduce the number of repeated requests by the CDN of the same media elements; and utilizing machine learning techniques to model the CDN behavior based on the mining of the request profiles to differentiate primary requests from requests after CDN expiration and requests after a CDN flush of the media elements issued during the reference collection interval of an analytic period.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: storing the request profiles as histograms of requests vs. time and wherein each event is a live event recorded and delivered concurrently at the same time, and wherein each event is delivered in a plurality of different representations.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: transmitting, in response to a request for a media element of a first event representation, the new caching recommendation for the first event representation to the CDN along with the media element.
4. The method as in claim 3 wherein the defining is performed repeatedly over time and the transmitting is performed repeatedly over time.
5. The method as in claim 2, wherein the method further comprises: receiving live content from different channels of live streaming media; storing the live content from each channel in media elements which are a small fraction of time of the content.
6. The method as in claim 5, wherein the storing includes recording each of live video streams in the live content on a plurality of nodes of a cluster of interconnected, autonomous live on demand nodes, wherein each media element is concurrently replicated on one or more live on demand nodes.
7. The method as in claim 1 wherein the analytic period is a period of time that is based on a predetermined repeating schedule for broadcasting of content.
8. The method as in claim 7 wherein the analytic period is one of a week or a day.
9. The method as in claim 7 wherein the computing, the mining and the defining are performed by a caching recommendation engine (CRE), and the CRE continuously collects request profiles for each collection interval of each event representation, and the CRE uses the collected request profiles to define new caching recommendations over time for each event representation in order to continuously adapt to varying demand patterns and varying CDN performance.
10. The method as in claim 9 wherein a first analytic period for a first event representation defines, when mined, a first caching recommendation for media elements of the first event representation requested in the first collection interval and wherein a second collection interval for the first event representation defines, when mined, a second caching recommendation for media elements of the first event representation in the second collection interval and wherein the first caching recommendation and the second caching recommendation are different.
11. The method as in claim 10 wherein the first collection interval is a first time slice that is a first portion of time of the first event representation and the second collection interval is a second time slice that is a second portion of time of the first event representation.
12. A method for improving the cache performance of a content distribution network (CDN) by learning the behavior of the CDN, the method comprising: computing for each event representation a request profile that is representative of collected media element requests to a Content Origination System (COS) received from the CDN and recording the request profile; mining for each event representation all recorded request profiles that relate to media elements requested during a prior analytic period; defining a new caching recommendation on a per event representation basis for use during a current analytic period wherein the new caching recommendation is based on a prior caching recommendation for each corresponding event representation used during the prior analytic period and the mined data to reduce the number of repeated CDN requests of the same media elements; and utilizing machine learning techniques to model the CDN behavior based on the mining of the request profiles to differentiate primary requests from requests after CDN expiration and requests after a CDN flush of the media elements issued during a reference collection interval of an analytic period.
13. One or more non-transitory machine readable media having executable instructions which when executed by one or more data processing systems cause the one or more data processing systems to perform a method for improving the cache performance of a content distribution network (CDN), by learning the behavior of the CDN and controlling the CDN with updated parameters based on the learned behavior, the method comprising: a) computing for each event representation, a request profile representative of collected media element requests to a Content Origination system (COS) received from a CDN and recording the request profile for future use; b) mining for a current collection interval and for each event representation, all the recorded request profiles that relate to content requested during a reference collection interval that occurred one analytic period ago relative to the current collection interval; c) defining an new caching recommendation on a per event and per representation basis for the current collection interval, where the new caching recommendation is calculated based on the caching recommendation per event and per representation issued during the reference collection interval, and on the mined data to statistically reduce the number of repeated requests by the CDN of the same media elements; and utilizing machine learning techniques to model the CDN behavior based on the mining of the request profiles to differentiate primary requests from requests after CDN expiration and requests after a CDN flush of the media elements issued during the reference collection interval of an analytic period.
14. The one or more media as in claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: storing the request profiles as histograms of requests vs. time and wherein each event is a live event recorded and delivered concurrently at the same time, and wherein each event is delivered in a plurality of different representations.
15. The one or more media as in claim 13, wherein the method further comprises: transmitting, in response to a request for a media element of a first event representation, the new caching recommendation for the first event representation to the CDN along with the media element.
16. The one or more media as in claim 15 wherein the defining is performed repeatedly over time and the transmitting is performed repeatedly over time.
17. The one or more media as in claim 14, wherein the method further comprises: receiving live content from different channels of live streaming media; storing the live content from each channel in media elements which are a small fraction of time of the content and wherein the storing includes recording each of live video streams in the live content on a plurality of nodes of a cluster of interconnected, autonomous live on demand nodes, wherein each media element is concurrently replicated on one or more live on demand nodes.
18. The one or more media as in claim 13 wherein the analytic period is a period of time that is based on a predetermined repeating schedule for broadcasting of content.
19. The one or more media as in claim 18 wherein the computing, the mining and the defining are performed by a caching recommendation engine (CRE), and the CRE continuously collects request profiles for each collection interval of each event representation, and the CRE uses the collected request profiles to define new caching recommendations over time for each event representation in order to continuously adapt to varying demand patterns and varying CDN performance.
20. The one or more media as in claim 19 wherein a first analytic period for a first event representation defines, when mined, a first caching recommendation for media elements of the first event representation requested in the first collection interval and wherein a second collection interval for the first event representation defines, when mined, a second caching recommendation for media elements of the first event representation in the second collection interval and wherein the first caching recommendation and the second caching recommendation are different.
21. The one or more media as in claim 20 wherein the first collection interval is a first time slice that is a first portion of time of the first event representation and the second collection interval is a second time slice that is a second portion of time of the first event representation.
22. One or more non-transitory machine readable media having executable instructions which when executed by one or more data processing systems cause the one or more data processing systems to perform a method for improving the cache performance of a content distribution network (CDN) by learning the behavior of the CDN, the method comprising: computing for each event representation a request profile that is representative of collected media element requests to a Content Origination System (COS) received from the CDN and recording the request profile; mining for each event representation all recorded request profiles that relate to media elements requested during a prior analytic period; defining a new caching recommendation on a per event representation basis for use during a current analytic period wherein the new caching recommendation is based on a prior caching recommendation for each corresponding event representation used during the prior analytic period and the mined data to reduce the number of repeated CDN requests of the same media elements; and utilizing machine learning techniques to model the CDN behavior based on the mining of the request profiles to differentiate primary requests from requests after CDN expiration and requests after a CDN flush of the media elements issued during a reference collection interval of an analytic period.
</claims>
</document>
