<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/00,G06F21/55,G06F21/56,G06F21/57,H04L12/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
SANOSSIAN, HERMINEH
SUGANDHI, TUSHAR SURESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66554489
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for attributing security vulnerabilities to a configuration of a client device
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure relates to systems, devices, and methods for receiving security configuration information and malware state information for a plurality of client devices, the security configuration information comprising identification of at least one of security parameters, hardware configurations, or software configurations of each of the plurality of client devices, and the malware state information comprising identification of at least one or more types of malware on each of the plurality of devices. The security configuration information and malware state information may be analyzed to identify which client devices from the plurality of devices have a security configuration that places the identified client devices in a vulnerable security state.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling security risks on client devices, comprising: receiving security configuration information for a plurality of client devices, the security configuration information comprising identification of at least one of security parameters, hardware configurations, or software configurations of each of the plurality of client devices; receiving malware state information for one or more first client devices of the plurality of client devices, the malware state information comprising identification of at least one or more types of malware on the one or more first client devices; analyzing, based on the security configuration information and the malware state information for the one or more first client devices, the security configuration information and the malware state information for each of the plurality of client devices to identify which one or more second client devices from the plurality of client devices having a security configuration that places the one or more second client devices in a vulnerable security state; and transmitting a configuration update to the one or more second client devices to avoid the malware associated with the malware state information on the one or more first client devices in response to the one or more second client devices being in the vulnerable security state.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an output that includes the one or more second client devices.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the configuration update for at least one vulnerable security state, wherein the configuration update changes one or more configuration parameters of the security configuration information of each of the one or more second client devices to reduce or eliminate the at least one vulnerable security state; and initiating the transmitting the configuration update to each of the one or more second client devices in response to the determining the configuration update.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a plurality of groups of the one or more second client devices based on the vulnerable security state of each of the one or more second client devices.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing comprises comparing the security configuration information for each of the plurality of client devices to known security configurations that place the one or more second client devices in the vulnerable security state.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of receiving the security configuration information and receiving the malware state information comprises receiving secure information.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein receiving the secure information comprises: receiving first security profile data from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the first security profile data includes at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the first security profile data is based on a message exchange by each of the plurality of client devices with an attestation server and is an encrypted, client-side version of the at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information; and receiving second security profile data from the attestation server for each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the second security profile data includes at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the second security profile data is based on the message exchange by the attestation server with each of the plurality of client devices and is an encrypted, server-side version of the at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the vulnerable security state for each security configuration by determining an infection pattern for each of the one or more first client devices based on one or more of a number of types of malware files present on each of the one or more first client devices, a number of malware files present on each of the one or more first client devices, or a period of time the malware files have been present on each of the one or more first client device; and associating one or more sets of infection patterns with a corresponding one or more vulnerable security states.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: calculating a vulnerability score for each of the one or more second client devices based on the infection pattern for each of the one or more first client devices, and wherein the vulnerable security state associated with each of the one or more second client devices is based on a respective vulnerability score of each of the one or more second client devices.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the security configuration information includes a combination of one or more of hardware characteristics, firmware characteristics, software characteristics, or the security parameters.
11. A computer device for controlling security risks on client devices, comprising: a memory to store data and instructions; and a processor in communication with the memory to execute the instructions to: receive security configuration information for a plurality of client devices, the security configuration information comprising identification of at least one of security parameters, hardware configurations, or software configurations of each of the plurality of client devices; receive malware state information for one or more first client devices of the plurality of client devices, the malware state information comprising identification of at least one or more types of malware on the one or more first client devices; analyze, based on the security configuration information and the malware state information for the one or more first client devices, the security configuration information and the malware state information for of the plurality of client devices to identify one or more second client devices from the plurality of client devices having a security configuration that places the one or more second client devices in a vulnerable security state; and transmit a configuration update to the one or more second client devices to avoid the malware associated with the malware state information on the one or more first client devices in response to the one or more second client devices being in the vulnerable security state.
12. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further executable to: generate an output that includes the one or more second client devices.
13. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further executable to: determine the configuration update for at least one vulnerable security state, wherein the configuration update changes one or more configuration parameters of the security configuration information of each of the one or more second client devices to reduce or eliminate the at least one vulnerable security state; and initiate transmission of the configuration update to each of the one or more second client devices in response to determining the configuration update.
14. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further executable to: determine a plurality of groups of the one or more second client devices based on the vulnerable security state of each of the one or more second client devices.
15. The computer device of claim 11, wherein the instructions are further executable to: compare the security configuration information for each of the plurality of client devices to known security configurations that place the one or more second client devices in the vulnerable security state.
16. The computer device of claim 11, wherein at least one of receiving the security configuration information and receiving the malware state information comprises receiving secure information.
17. The computer device of claim 16, wherein receiving the secure information comprises: receiving first security profile data from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the first security profile data includes at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the first security profile data is based on a message exchange by each of the plurality of client devices with an attestation server and is an encrypted, client-side version of the at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information; and receiving second security profile data from the attestation server for each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the second security profile data includes at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information from each of the plurality of client devices, wherein the second security profile data is based on the message exchange by the attestation server with each of the plurality of client devices and is an encrypted, server-side version of the at least one of the security configuration information and the malware state information.
18. A computer-readable device storing instructions executable by one or more processors, the instructions comprising code for: receiving security configuration information for a plurality of client devices, the security configuration information comprising identification of at least one of security parameters, hardware configurations, or software configurations of each of the plurality of client devices; receiving malware state information for one or more first client devices of the plurality of client devices, the malware state information comprising identification of at least one or more types of malware the one or more first client devices; analyzing, based on the security configuration information and the malware state information for the one or more first client devices, the security configuration information and the malware state information for of the plurality of client devices to identify one or more second client devices from the plurality of client devices having a security configuration that places the identified one or more second client devices in a vulnerable security state; and transmitting a configuration update to the one or more second client devices to avoid the malware associated with the malware state information on the one or more first client devices in response to the one or more second client devices being in the vulnerable security state.
19. The computer-readable device of claim 18, the instructions further comprising code for generating an output that includes the one or more second client devices.
20. The computer-readable device of claim 18, the instructions further comprising code for: determining the configuration update for at least one vulnerable security state, wherein the configuration update changes one or more configuration parameters of the security configuration information of each of the one or more second client devices to reduce or eliminate the at least one vulnerable security state; and initiating transmission of the configuration update to each of the one or more second client devices in response to determining the configuration update.
</claims>
</document>
