<document>

<filing_date>
2008-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2008-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/08,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/02,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
POLLEN
KEMPER, ALEXANDER C.
OWENS, ROY E.
HEDRICK, GEORGE WESLEY
THOMAS, PETER
IORIO, PATRICIA
Martin, Douglas A.
Christopher, John G.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KEMPER, ALEXANDER C.
OWENS, ROY E.
HEDRICK, GEORGE WESLEY
THOMAS, PETER
IORIO, PATRICIA
Martin, Douglas A.
Christopher, John G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
42129551
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic discounting system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for dynamically discounting trade debt through the use of a forward auction is provided. In one example, a system that allows a seller to auction inventory to a plurality of bidders. According to this embodiment, the system may determine eligibility for acceptance of bids submitted by the bidders and a plurality of bids may be determined to be eligible for acceptance. Further, a margin by which the bids are acceptable may be determined and a representation of the margin may be communicated. In another example, a method is provided for discounting debt using an auction system. According to this embodiment, a seller may configure an auction event with auction parameters, such as hurdle rates, that will best serve the goals of the auction. The seller may alter event parameters while the event is ongoing, thus further enhancing the ability of the seller to meet auction objectives.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for operating a networked platform , the method comprising: electronically providing an offer to a computer of each authorized bidder to whom a seller owes a specific debt obligation, via a network interface over a communications network, the specific debt obligation being associated with an available inventory of debt obligations, with the offer including a stated price for the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder; electronically receiving, via the network interface over the communications network, a plurality of requests in a first communications protocol from a plurality of authorized bidder computers, the plurality of requests associated with a plurality of bids, wherein the plurality of requests are converted to a second communications protocol and storing a representation of the plurality of bids in an auction database, each bid of the plurality of bids: corresponding to the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder making the bid; and comprising electronic data specifying a bid amount in terms of a discount rate for the specific debt obligation as a portion of the stated price for the specific debt obligation; using a processor coupled to the network interface and a storage medium, processing the electronic data in each bid and determining an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids of the plurality of bids based at least in part on the bid amount for the specific debt obligation associated with each bid of the plurality of bids, wherein determining an eligibility for acceptance includes accepting multiple bids at different discount rates; and electronically indicating, via the network interface to at least one of a seller computer and one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to other bids of the plurality of bids.
2. The method according to claim 1, further comprising receiving, at the processor, an auction goal for a total amount of payment auctioned and wherein determining the eligibility for acceptance includes determining, using the processor, an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids based at least in part on the auction goal.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprising receiving, at the processor, a hurdle rate and wherein determining the eligibility for acceptance includes comparing, using the processor, the bid amount associated with each bid to a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: determining, using the processor, a margin by which at least one bid of the plurality of bids is eligible; and indicating, via the network interface, a representation based at least in part on the margin.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein determining, using the processor, the eligibility for acceptance includes determining a market discount rate based at least in part on the bid amount associated with each bid of the plurality of bids.
6. The method according to claim 2, further comprising: receiving a hurdle rate; and allocating, using the processor, a portion of the auction goal to any bid of the plurality of bids with a bid amount greater than a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate.
7. The method according to claim 6, further comprising repeating, until a terminating condition occurs, the acts of receiving, via the network interface, a plurality of bids, allocating, using the processor, a portion of the auction goal to any bid of the plurality of bids with a bid amount greater than a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate, determining, using the processor, an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids, and indicating, via the network interface, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids.
8. The method according to claim 7, wherein repeating until a terminating condition occurs, includes repeating until either the allocated portions substantially equal the auction goal or a threshold time is exceeded.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising: determining, using the processor, after the terminating condition occurs, an eligibility for acceptance of each bid based at least in part on the bid amount of each bid; and indicating, via the network interface, the eligibility for acceptance of each bid.
10. The method according to claim 1, further comprising receiving, via the network interface, an identity of each of the authorized bidders from an external entity.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising receiving, via the network interface, debt amounts associated with each of the authorized bidders from an external entity.
12. A system for operating a networked platform comprising: a network interface; a storage medium; and a processor coupled to the network interface and the storage medium and configured to: electronically provide an offer to a computer of each authorized bidder to whom a seller owes a specific debt obligation, via the network interface over a communications network, the specific debt obligation being associated with an available inventory of debt obligations, with the offer including a stated price for the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder; electronically receive, via the network interface over the communications network, a plurality of requests in a first communications protocol from a plurality of authorized bidder computers, the plurality of requests associated with a plurality of bids, wherein the plurality of requests are converted to a second communications protocol and store a representation of the plurality of bids in an auction database, each bid of the plurality of bids: corresponding to the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder making the bid; and comprising electronic data specifying a bid amount in terms of a discount rate for the specific debt obligation as a portion of the stated price for the specific debt obligation; process the electronic data in each bid and determine an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids of the plurality of bids based at least in part on the bid amount for the specific debt obligation associated with each bid of the plurality of bids, wherein determining an eligibility for acceptance includes accepting multiple bids at different discount rates; and electronically indicate, via the network interface to at least one of a seller computer and one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to other bids of the plurality of bids.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive an auction goal for a total amount of payment auctioned; and determine the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids based at least in part on the auction goal.
14. The system according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a hurdle rate; and determine an eligibility for acceptance by comparing the bid amount associated with each bid to a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate.
15. The system according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a margin by which at least one bid of the plurality of bids is eligible; and indicate, via the network interface, a representation based at least in part on the margin.
16. The system according to claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the eligibility for acceptance by determining a market discount rate based at least in part on the bid amount associated with each bid of the plurality of bids.
17. The system according to claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a hurdle rate; and allocate a portion of the auction goal to any bid of the plurality of bids with a bid amount greater than a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate.
18. The system according to claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to repeatedly receive, via the network interface, a plurality of bids, determine an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids, allocate a portion of the auction goal to any bid of the plurality of bids with a bid amount greater than the rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate and indicate, via the network interface, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids, until a terminating condition occurs.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine, after the terminating condition occurs, an eligibility for acceptance of each bid based at least in part on the bid amount of each bid; and indicate, via the network interface, the eligibility for payment of each bid.
20. A computer implemented method for operating a networked platform comprising: electronically providing an offer to a computer of each authorized bidder to whom a seller owes a specific debt obligation, via a network interface over a communications network, the specific debt obligation being associated with an available inventory of debt obligations, with the offer including a stated price for the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder; electronically receiving, via the network interface over the communications network, a plurality of requests in a first communications protocol from a plurality of authorized bidder computers, the plurality of requests associated with a plurality of bids, wherein the plurality of requests are converted to a second communications protocol and storing a representation of the plurality of bids in an auction database, each bid of the plurality of bids: corresponding to the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder making the bid; and comprising electronic data specifying a bid amount in terms of a discount rate for the specific debt obligation as a portion of the stated price for the specific debt obligation; using a processor coupled to the network interface and a storage medium, processing the electronic data in each bid and determining an eligibility for acceptance of at least one bid of the plurality of bids based at least in part on the bid amount for the specific debt obligation associated with each bid of the plurality of bids, wherein determining an eligibility for acceptance includes accepting multiple bids at different discount rates; determining, using the processor, a margin by which at least one bid of the plurality of bids is eligible; and electronically indicating, via the network interface to at least one of a seller computer and one or more of the authorized bidder computers, a representation based at least in part on the margin.
21. The method according to claim 20, further comprising receiving, at the processor, an auction goal for a total amount of inventory auctioned and wherein determining the eligibility for acceptance includes determining, using the processor, an eligibility for acceptance of multiple bids based at least in part on the auction goal.
22. The method according to claim 20, further comprising repeating, until a terminating condition occurs, the acts of receiving a plurality of bids via the network interface, determining, using the processor, an eligibility for acceptance of at least one bid, determining a margin and indicating, via the network interface, a representation based at least in part on the margin.
23. A computer implemented method for operating a networked platform comprising: electronically providing an offer to a computer of each authorized bidder to whom a seller owes a specific debt obligation, via a network interface over a communications network, the specific debt obligation being associated with an available inventory of debt obligations, with the offer including a stated price for the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder; electronically receiving, via the network interface over the communications network, a plurality of requests in a first communications protocol from a plurality of authorized bidder computers, the plurality of requests associated with a plurality of bids, wherein the plurality of requests are converted to a second communications protocol and storing a representation of the plurality of bids in an auction database, each bid of the plurality of bids: corresponding to the specific debt obligation owed by the seller to the authorized bidder; and comprising electronic data specifying a bid amount in terms of a discount rate for the specific debt obligation as a portion of the stated price for the specific debt obligation; using a processor coupled to the network interface and a storage medium, processing the electronic data in each bid and determining an eligibility for acceptance of at least one bid of the plurality of bids based at least in part on the bid amount for the specific debt obligation associated with each bid of the plurality of bids, wherein determining an eligibility for acceptance includes accepting multiple bids at different discount rates; and electronically indicating, via the network interface to at least one of a seller computer and one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for payment of the at least one bid relative to other bids of the plurality of bids.
24. The method according to claim 23, further comprising receiving, at the processor, an auction goal for a total amount of payment auctioned and wherein determining the eligibility for payment includes determining, using the processor, an eligibility for payment of multiple bids based at least in part on the auction goal.
25. The method according to claim 23, further comprising receiving, at the processor, a hurdle rate and wherein determining the eligibility for payment includes comparing, using the processor, the bid amount associated with each bid to a rate based at least in part on the hurdle rate.
26. The method according to claim 23, further comprising: determining, using the processor, a margin by which at least one bid of the plurality of bids is eligible; and indicating, via the network interface, a representation based at least in part on the margin.
27. The method according to claim 23, wherein receiving a plurality of bids from a plurality of authorized bidders includes receiving, via the network interface, a plurality of bids from a plurality of suppliers, each supplier of the plurality of suppliers holding a portion of the debt.
28. The method according to claim 23, wherein receiving a plurality of bids from a plurality of authorized bidders includes receiving, via the network interface, a plurality of bids from a plurality of employed entities, each employed entity of the plurality of employed entities holding a portion of the debt.
29. The method according to claim 23, wherein receiving a plurality of bids from a plurality of authorized bidders includes receiving, via the network interface, a plurality of bids from a plurality of employed entities, each employed entity of the plurality of employed entities holding a portion of the debt and the method further comprises accepting the at least one bid.
30. The method according to claim 1, wherein the bid amount is specified as one of a fraction of the stated price for the debt obligation and a percentage of the stated price for the debt obligation.
31. The method according to claim 3, further comprising automatically adjusting the hurdle rate to maximize the bid amounts of the bids while selling at least a specified amount of inventory auctioned.
32. The method of claim 1 further comprising: providing the offer via a user interface; and electronically receiving the plurality of bids from the authorized bidder computers via user interfaces.
33. The method of claim 1 further comprising electronically providing the offer to each authorized bidder computer in a communication to cause each authorized bidder computer to display the offer.
34. The method of claim 1 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the seller computer, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
35. The method of claim 1 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
36. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating an amount of debt to be extinguished; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the amount of debt to be extinguished.
37. The method of claim 1 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating a total amount of discount to be gathered; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the total amount of discount to be gathered.
38. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: provide the offer via a user interface; and electronically receive the plurality of bids from the authorized bidder computers via user interfaces.
39. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to electronically provide the offer to each authorized bidder computer in a communication to cause each authorized bidder computer to display the offer.
40. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to electronically indicate, via the network interface to the seller computer, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
41. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to electronically indicate, via the network interface to the one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
42. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that a total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating an amount of debt to be extinguished; and electronically notify the seller computer the total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the amount of debt to be extinguished.
43. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine that a total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating a total amount of discount to be gathered; and electronically notify the seller computer the total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the total amount of discount to be gathered.
44. The method of claim 20 further comprising: providing the offer via a user interface; and electronically receiving the plurality of bids from the authorized bidder computers via user interfaces.
45. The method of claim 20 further comprising electronically providing the offer to each authorized bidder computer in a communication to cause each authorized bidder computer to display the offer.
46. The method of claim 20 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the seller computer, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
47. The method of claim 20 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
48. The method of claim 20 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating an amount of debt to be extinguished; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the amount of debt to be extinguished.
49. The method of claim 20 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating a total amount of discount to be gathered; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the total amount of discount to be gathered.
50. The method of claim 23 further comprising: providing the offer via a user interface; and electronically receiving the plurality of bids from the authorized bidder computers via user interfaces.
51. The method of claim 23 further comprising electronically providing the offer to each authorized bidder computer in a communication to cause each authorized bidder computer to display the offer.
52. The method of claim 23 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the seller computer, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
53. The method of claim 23 further comprising electronically indicating, via the network interface to the one or more of the authorized bidder computers, the eligibility for acceptance of the multiple bids relative to the other bids of the plurality of bids.
54. The method of claim 23 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating an amount of debt to be extinguished; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total payment amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the amount of debt to be extinguished.
55. The method of claim 23 further comprising: determining by the processor that a total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals an auction goal indicating a total amount of discount to be gathered; and electronically notifying the seller computer the total discount amount of bids eligible for acceptance substantially equals the auction goal indicating the total amount of discount to be gathered.
</claims>
</document>
