<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/683,G10L19/008
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAWEI TECHNOLOGIES DUESSELDORF
</assignee>

<inventors>
SETIAWAN, PANJI
KONIECZNY, JACEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56345116
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatuses and methods for encoding and decoding a multichannel audio signal
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to an apparatus for encoding an input audio signal, wherein the input audio signal comprises a plurality of input audio channels. The apparatus comprises a KLT-based pre-processor configured to transform the plurality of input audio channels into a plurality of eigenchannels and to provide metadata in the form of a plurality of metadata elements, wherein the metadata allows reconstructing the plurality of input audio channels on the basis of the plurality of eigenchannels, a metadata re-arrangement unit configured to re-arrange the plurality of metadata elements on the basis of a re-arrangement scheme into one or more metadata blocks, wherein each of the one or more metadata blocks is a multi-dimensional array, and a metadata encoder configured to encode each of the one or more metadata blocks.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus for encoding a signal, the apparatus comprising: one or more processors configured to: receive an input audio signal, wherein the input audio signal comprises a plurality of input audio channels; transform the plurality of input audio channels into a plurality of eigenchannels; generate metadata comprising a plurality of metadata elements based on the plurality of eigenchannels, wherein the metadata allows reconstructing the plurality of input audio channels based on the plurality of eigenchannels; perform a re-arrangement scheme to re-arrange the plurality of metadata elements into one or more metadata blocks, wherein each of the one or more metadata blocks comprises a multi-dimensional array, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is based on a set of correlation values, wherein each correlation value of the set of correlation values is a value of a correlation between two or more metadata elements of the plurality of metadata elements, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is configured to minimize a cost function, and wherein the cost function assigns to each one of a set of candidate re-arrangement schemes a respective cost value; and encode each of the one or more metadata blocks.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to determine the set of correlation values based on a set of training input audio signals.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is configured to place more correlated metadata elements closer together than less correlated metadata elements.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the cost function is a sum of powers of correlation-distance products.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the re-arrangement scheme comprises one or more iterations of the following sequence of operations: defining a set of remaining metadata elements, the set of remaining metadata elements comprising those metadata elements of the plurality of metadata elements that remain to be re-arranged; selecting, from the set of remaining metadata elements, the subset of M metadata elements that has the highest correlation value, wherein M is greater than or equal to 2; and re-arranging the selected subset of M metadata elements into one of the one or more metadata blocks.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein each of the metadata blocks comprises M elements.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein performing the re-arrangement scheme comprises: selecting a first metadata element from the plurality of metadata elements; and re-arranging the first metadata element into a first one of the one or more metadata blocks; and one or more iterations of the following sequence of operations: defining a set of remaining metadata elements, the set of remaining metadata elements consisting of those metadata elements of the plurality of metadata elements that remain to be re-arranged; selecting, in the first metadata block, a free position next to an occupied position; selecting, from the set of remaining metadata elements, the metadata element that is most highly correlated with the metadata element at the occupied position; and re-arranging the selected metadata element into the selected free position.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: for each of the one or more metadata blocks, apply a discrete block transform to the respective metadata block, thereby generating a plurality of transform coefficients of the respective metadata block; and encode the plurality of transform coefficients.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: for each of the one more metadata blocks, re-arrange the plurality of transform coefficients of the respective metadata block, based on the respective magnitudes of the plurality of transform coefficients, thereby providing a sequence of transform coefficients; and encode the sequence of transform coefficients.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the discrete block transform is a discrete cosine transform (DCT), a discrete sine transform (DST), or a discrete Fourier transform (DFT).
11. An apparatus for decoding a signal, comprising: one or more processors configured to: receive an input audio signal comprising encoded metadata; decode the encoded metadata, wherein the encoded metadata comprises metadata elements arranged in one or more metadata blocks, wherein each metadata block of the one or more metadata blocks comprises a multi-dimensional array; perform a re-arrangement scheme to re-arrange the plurality of metadata elements into a plurality of re-arranged metadata elements, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is configured to minimize a cost function, and wherein the cost function assigns to each one of a set of candidate re-arrangement schemes a respective cost value; and provide an output audio signal comprising a plurality of output audio channels based on the plurality of re-arranged metadata elements.
12. A method for encoding a signal, the method comprising: receiving an input audio signal, wherein the input audio signal comprises a plurality of input audio channels; transforming the plurality of input audio channels into a plurality of eigenchannels; generating metadata comprising a plurality of metadata elements based on the plurality of eigenchannels, wherein the metadata allows reconstructing the plurality of input audio channels based on the plurality of eigenchannels; performing a re-arrangement scheme to re-arrange the plurality of metadata elements into one or more metadata blocks, wherein each of the one or more metadata blocks comprises a multi-dimensional array, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is based on a set of correlation values, wherein each correlation value of the set of correlation values is a value of a correlation between two or more metadata elements of the plurality of metadata elements, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is configured to minimize a cost function, and wherein the cost function assigns to each one of a set of candidate re-arrangement schemes a respective cost value; and encoding each of the one or more metadata blocks.
13. A non-transitory memory storing computer-executable program code that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to perform the method of claim 12.
14. A method for decoding a signal, the method comprising: receiving an input audio signal comprising encoded metadata; decoding the encoded metadata, wherein the encoded metadata comprises metadata elements arranged in one or more metadata blocks, wherein each metadata block of the one or more metadata blocks comprises a multi-dimensional array; performing a re-arrangement scheme to re-arrange the plurality of metadata elements into a plurality of re-arranged metadata elements, wherein the re-arrangement scheme is configured to minimize a cost function, and wherein the cost function assigns to each one of a set of candidate re-arrangement schemes a respective cost value; and providing an output audio signal comprising a plurality of output audio channels based on the plurality of re-arranged metadata elements.
15. A non-transitory memory storing computer-executable program code that, when executed by a computer, causes the computer to perform the method of claim 14.
</claims>
</document>
