<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/54,G06K9/00,G06T7/20,G07C9/37,G08B13/191,G08B13/193,G08B13/196,G08B21/18,G08B27/00,G08B29/18,G08B3/10,G08B5/22,H04B17/318,H04B17/391,H04L1/00,H04L12/26,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04L5/00,H04N17/00,H04N19/00,H04N19/103,H04N19/124,H04N19/156,H04N19/166,H04N19/184,H04N19/40,H04N19/42,H04N5/232,H04N5/247,H04N7/12,H04N7/14,H04N7/18,H04W24/08,H04W24/10,H04W28/02,H04W36/00,H04W36/30,H04W52/02,H04W72/04,H05B47/105,H05B47/19
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARLO TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMINI, PEIMAN
EMMANUEL, JOSEPH AMALAN ARUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70612583
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Encoder selection based on camera system deployment characteristics
</title>

<abstract>
A technique is described for selecting an encoder to encode video captured by a network-connected camera system based on characteristics of deployment of the network connected cameras system. The network-connected camera system may include one or more cameras and a base station connected to each other via a network, which can be a wireless network. A processing system, for example at the base station, receives data indicative of characteristics of deployment of the network-connected camera system, processes, the received data to select an encoder, and causes the one or more cameras to process captured video using the selected encoder. In some embodiments, encoder selections can be continually updated based on changes in the deployment of the network-connected camera system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a characteristic of deployment of a network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received data to select an encoder based on the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected encoder; wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the received data to determine a location of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; inferring, by the computing system, a characteristic of a scene captured by the camera based on the determined location of the camera; and selecting, by the computing system, an encoder based on the inferred characteristic of the scene captured by the camera.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computing system, a second data indicative of a change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received second data to select a second encoder based on the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected second encoder.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second encoder is selected and used to encode video in real time in response to the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the network-connected camera system includes a plurality of cameras and wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting a specific encoder for each of the plurality of cameras.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the characteristics associated of deployment of the network-connected camera system are based on any of: capabilities of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a network communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a storage device communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a user device through which video captured by the network-connected camera system is accessed by a user; characteristics of a scene within view of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; costs of storage and/or data transfer of videos captured by the network-connected camera system; costs of licensing usage of certain encoders in at a location where the network-connected camera system is deployed; or type of user subscription implemented to access video captured by the network-connected camera system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting an encoder profile by defining one or more encoder parameters included in the encoder profile.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the one or more encoder parameters include any of an encoding standard, a video codec, a video output format, a video output resolution; a video output bitrate, a speed control parameter, or an encoding technique.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the received data includes information indicative of storage and/or data transfer costs and transcoding costs wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: comparing, by the computing system, the storage and/or data transfer costs to the transcoding costs; and selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that encodes captured video in a high-compression format if the storage and/or data transfer costs are greater than the transcoding costs.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the received data includes information indicative conditions of a network through which encoded video is delivered to a user device and wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the received information indicative of conditions of the network to determine an expected packet loss for end-to-end delivery of encoded video to the user device; selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that will result in delivery of encoded video to the user device with a perceived quality score above a specified threshold based on the expected packet loss.
10. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a characteristic of deployment of a network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received data to select an encoder based on the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected encoder; wherein the received data includes video captured the network-connected camera system and wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the video captured by the network-connected camera system to detect physical objects in the captured video using computer vision; determining, by the computing system, a characteristic of a scene captured by the network-connected camera system based on the detected physical objects; and selecting, by the computing system, an encoder based on the determined characteristic of the scene captured by the network-connected camera system.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: receiving, by the computing system, a second data indicative of a change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received second data to select a second encoder based on the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected second encoder.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the second encoder is selected and used to encode video in real time in response to the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the network-connected camera system includes a plurality of cameras and wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting a specific encoder for each of the plurality of cameras.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the characteristics associated of deployment of the network-connected camera system are based on any of: capabilities of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a network communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a storage device communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a user device through which video captured by the network-connected camera system is accessed by a user; characteristics of a scene within view of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; costs of storage and/or data transfer of videos captured by the network-connected camera system; costs of licensing usage of certain encoders in at a location where the network-connected camera system is deployed; or type of user subscription implemented to access video captured by the network-connected camera system.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting an encoder profile by defining one or more encoder parameters included in the encoder profile.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the one or more encoder parameters include any of an encoding standard, a video codec, a video output format, a video output resolution, a video output bitrate, a speed control parameter, or an encoding technique.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the received data includes information indicative of storage and/or data transfer costs and transcoding costs wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: comparing, by the computing system, the storage and/or data transfer costs to the transcoding costs; and selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that encodes captured video in a high-compression format if the storage and/or data transfer costs are greater than the transcoding costs.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the received data includes information indicative conditions of a network through which encoded video is delivered to a user device and wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the received information indicative of conditions of the network to determine an expected packet loss for end-to-end delivery of encoded video to the user device; selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that will result in delivery of encoded video to the user device with a perceived quality score above a specified threshold based on the expected packet loss.
19. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a characteristic of deployment of a network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received data to select an encoder based on the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected encoder; wherein the received data includes information indicative of a user device used to access video captured by the network-connected camera system and wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the received information indicative of the user device to update a listing including information indicative of a plurality of user devices that have accessed the network-connected camera system; selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that is compatible with at east one of the plurality of user devices included in the listing.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein processing the received data to select an encoder further includes: prioritizing, by the computing system, a first user device of the plurality of user devices over a second user device based on a frequency of usage; wherein the selected encoder is compatible with the first user device even if the selected encoder is not compatible with the second user device.
21. The method of claim 19, further comprising: receiving, by the computing system, a second data indicative of a change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; processing, by the computing system, the received second data to select a second encoder based on the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system; and encoding, by the computing system, video captured by the network-connected camera system using the selected second encoder.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second encoder is selected and used to encode video in real time in response to the change in the characteristic of deployment of the network-connected camera system.
23. The method of claim 19, wherein the network-connected camera system includes a plurality of cameras and wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting a specific encoder for each of the plurality of cameras.
24. The method of claim 19, wherein the characteristics associated of deployment of the network-connected camera system are based on any of: capabilities of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a network communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a storage device communicatively coupled to the network-connected camera system; capabilities of a user device through which video captured by the network-connected camera system is accessed by a user; characteristics of a scene within view of a camera coupled to the network-connected camera system; costs of storage and/or data transfer of videos captured by the network-connected camera system; costs of licensing usage of certain encoders in at a location where the network-connected camera system is deployed; or type of user subscription implemented to access video captured by the network-connected camera system.
25. The method of claim 19, wherein selecting the encoder includes selecting an encoder profile by defining one or more encoder parameters included in the encoder profile.
26. The method of claim 25, wherein the one or more encoder parameters include any of an encoding standard, a video codec, a video output format, a video output resolution, a video output bitrate, a speed control parameter, or an encoding technique.
27. The method of claim 19, wherein the received data includes information indicative of storage and/or data transfer costs and transcoding costs wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: comparing, by the computing system, the storage and/or data transfer costs to the transcoding costs; and selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that encodes captured video in a high-compression format if the storage and/or data transfer costs are greater than the transcoding costs.
28. The method of claim 19, wherein the received data includes information indicative conditions of a network through which encoded video is delivered to a user device and wherein processing the received data to select an encoder includes: processing, by the computing system, the received information indicative of conditions of the network to determine an expected packet loss for end-to-end delivery of encoded video to the user device; selecting, by the computing system, an encoder that will result in delivery of encoded video to the user device with a perceived quality score above a specified threshold based on the expected packet loss.
</claims>
</document>
