<document>

<filing_date>
2016-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/145,A61B5/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CERNER INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCNAIR DOUGLAS S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69141062
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicting chronic kidney disease progression
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are provided for identification of patients having an elevated near-term risk of chronic kidney disease progression, including quantitatively predicting whether or not an elevated risk of progression of Stage 3 or Stage 4 chronic kidney disease is likely within a time interval of up to 36 months subsequent to computing the prediction. Based on the prediction, appropriate care providers may be notified so that the risk of CKD progression may be mitigated. In some embodiments, serial measurements are obtained of urine osmolality, and a challenge with an AVP V2 antagonist and serum sodium concentration is provided. From a time series based on the serial measurements, estimates of each variable's velocity and/or doubling-time may be determined. These values then may be combined via a multivariable mathematical model for providing a leading indicator of near-term future abnormalities in kidney function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting a progression of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) in a patient using an Arginine Vasopressin (AVP) V2 antagonist agent, the method comprising: measuring one or more physiologic variables of the patient at a plurality of time stamped data points, the one or more physiologic variables associated with kidney function; administering the AVP V2 antagonist agent to the patient; measuring, after a predetermined time period has elapsed, the one or more physiologic variables at one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; compiling a serial measurement time series comprising the plurality of time stamped data points and the one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; calculating a predicted probability that the AVP V2 antagonist agent will retard the progression of the CKD by transforming the serial measurement time series; and utilizing the predicted probability, evoking an action corresponding to treatment of the patient, wherein transforming the serial measurement time series comprises using at least one of the following on the serial measurement time series: a logistic regression model; a neural network; and a support vector machine model.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising censoring any of the plurality of time stamped data points affected by at least one of: error; and measurement artifact.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising transforming the plurality of time stamped data points by performing at least one of: determining a velocity of the serial measurement time series; and determining a doubling-time for each of the measured one or more physiologic variables in the serial measurement time series.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more physiologic variables comprise at least one of: urine osmolality of the patient; and serum sodium of the patient.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of time stamped data points comprises two time stamp data points.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined time period is between 4 and 6 hours inclusive.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the measured one or more physiologic variables from the plurality of time stamped data points are received from an Electronic Health Record (EHR).
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the AVP V2 antagonist agent comprises at least one of: tolvaptan; conivaptan; and serum sodium concentration.
9. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon that, when executed, facilitate a method for predicting a progression of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) in a patient using an Arginine Vasopressin (AVP) V2 antagonist agent, the method comprising: receiving measurements of one or more physiologic variables for the patient at a plurality of time stamped data points, the one or more physiologic variables associated with kidney function; receiving an indication that the AVP V2 antagonist agent has been administered to the patient; receiving measurements, after a predetermined time period has elapsed, of the one or more physiologic variables at one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; compiling a serial measurement time series comprising the plurality of time stamped data points and the one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; calculating a predicted probability of progression of the CKD by transforming the serial measurement time series; determining if the predicted probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and upon determining that the predicted probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, evoking an action corresponding to treatment of the patient, wherein the one or more physiologic variables comprise at least one of: urine osmolality of the patient; and serum sodium of the patient.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the action corresponding to treatment of the patient comprises at least one of: initiating a signal that causes an alert to be presented to a clinician; initiating a signal for a plan of care to be initiated for the patient; preparing a treatment plan for the patient; automatically scheduling a caregiver to provide therapeutic treatment to the patient; and modifying or generating a healthcare computer program for treating the patient.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein transforming the serial measurement time series comprises using at least one of the following on the serial measurement time series: a logistic regression model; a neural network; and a support vector machine model.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the method further comprises censoring any value or range of the serial measurement time series affected by error or measurement artifact.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the predetermined time period comprises between 4 and 6 hours inclusive.
14. The computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the one or more physiologic variables from the plurality of time stamped data points are received from an Electronic Health Record (EHR).
15. The non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 9, wherein the AVP V2 antagonist agent comprises at least one of: tolvaptan; conivaptan; and serum sodium concentration.
16. A system for predicting the progression of Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) in a patient using an Arginine Vasopressin (AVP) V2 antagonist agent, the system comprising: one or more processers; one or more sensors configured to measure one or more physiologic variables for the patient, the one or more physiologic variables associated with kidney function; and computer storage memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, implement a method comprising: receiving measurements of the one or more physiologic variables for the patient at a plurality of time stamped data points; receiving an indication that the AVP V2 antagonist agent has been administered to the patient; receiving measurements, after a predetermined time period has elapsed, of the one or more physiologic variables at one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; compiling a serial measurement time series comprising the plurality of time stamped data points and the one or more post-AVP V2 administration time stamped data points; calculating a predicted probability of progression of the CKD of the patient by transforming the serial measurement time series; determining if the predicted probability exceeds a predetermined threshold; and upon determining that the predicted probability exceeds the predetermined threshold, evoking an action corresponding to treatment of the patient, wherein transforming the serial measurement time series comprises using at least one of the following on the serial measurement time series: a logistic regression model; a neural network; and a support vector machine model.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the action corresponding to treatment of the patient comprises at least one of: initiating a signal that causes an alert to be presented to a clinician; initiating a signal for a plan of care to be initiated for the patient; automatically scheduling a caregiver to provide therapeutic treatment to the patient; and modifying or generating a healthcare computer program for treating the patient.
</claims>
</document>
