<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-05-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/08,G10L15/18,G10L15/187,G10L15/26,H04M3/42,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
PRIME, MILTON STANLEY
Lemus, Brian E.
Zhou, Charles C.
Smith, Bernis N.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73264192
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Call monitoring and feedback reporting using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
A device configured to obtain at least a portion of a phone call and to identify a voice signal associated with a person on the phone call. The device is further configured to generate metadata for the phone call and a transcript for the phone call. The device is further configured to input the transcript and the metadata into a machine learning model and to receive a call profile from the machine learning model. The call profile includes a first call classification for the phone call. The device is further configured to identify a call log associated with the phone call that includes a second call classification for the phone call. The device is further configured to determine that the first call classification does not match the second call classification, to generate a feedback report that identifies the first call classification, and to output the feedback report.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A call monitoring device, comprising: a network interface configured to receive phone calls; and a processor operably coupled to the network interface, configured to: obtain at least a portion of a phone call; identify a voice signal associated with a person on the phone call; perform a sentiment analysis on the voice signal to generate metadata for the phone call, wherein the metadata identifies: keywords used by the person on the phone call; and characteristics of the voice signal; generate a transcript for the phone call, wherein the transcript comprises text corresponding with the voice signal; input the transcript and the metadata into a machine learning model, wherein: the machine learning model is configured to generate a call profile based on text from the transcript and the metadata for the phone call; and the call profile comprises a first call classification for the phone call; receive the call profile from the machine learning model in response to inputting the transcript and the metadata into the machine learning model; identify a call log associated with the phone call, wherein the call log comprises a second call classification for the phone call; compare the first call classification to the second call classification; determine the first call classification does not match the second call classification; generate a feedback report that identifies the first call classification in response to determining that the first call classification does not match the second call classification; and output the feedback report.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and the processor is further configured to: determine the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forward the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receive user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; and populate the feedback report based on the user feedback.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and the processor is further configured to: determine the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forward the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receive user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; determine the first call classification is incorrect based on the user feedback; and generate training data for the machine learning model based on the user feedback.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein outputting the feedback report comprises: identifying a group within an enterprise based on keywords used by the person on the phone call; and sending the call profile to a network device associated with the identified group.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein outputting the feedback report comprises; identifying a second person on the phone call; and sending the feedback report to a network device associated with the second person.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the characteristics of the voice signal comprises a speech tone for the person on the phone call.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the characteristics of the voice signal comprise a speech rate for the person on the phone call.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein obtaining the phone call comprises obtaining a recording of the phone call.
9. A call monitoring method, comprising: obtaining at least a portion of a phone call; identifying a voice signal associated with a person on the phone call; performing a sentiment analysis on the voice signal to generate metadata for the phone call, wherein the metadata identifies: keywords used by the person on the phone call; and characteristics of the voice signal; generating a transcript for the phone call, wherein the transcript comprises text corresponding with the voice signal; inputting the transcript and the metadata into a machine learning model wherein: the machine learning model is configured to generate a call profile based on text from the transcript and the metadata for the phone call; and the call profile comprises a first call classification for the phone call; receiving the call profile from the machine learning model in response to inputting the transcript and the metadata into the machine learning model; identifying a call log associated with the phone call, wherein the call log comprises a second call classification for the phone call; comparing the first call classification to the second call classification; determining the first call classification does not match the second call classification; generating a feedback report that identifies the first call classification in response to determining that the first call classification does not match the second call classification; and outputting the feedback report.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and further comprising: determining the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forwarding the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receiving user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; and populating the feedback report based on the user feedback.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and further comprising: determining the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forwarding the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receiving user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; determining the first call classification is incorrect based on the user feedback; and generating training data for the machine learning model based on the user feedback.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein outputting the feedback report comprises: identifying a group within an enterprise based on keywords used by the person on the phone call; and sending the call profile to a network device associated with the identified group.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein outputting the feedback report comprises; identifying a second person on the phone call; and sending the feedback report to a network device associated with the second person.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the characteristics of the voice signal comprises a speech tone for the person on the phone call.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the characteristics of the voice signal comprise a speech rate for the person on the phone call.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein obtaining the phone call comprises obtaining a recording of the phone call.
17. A computer program comprising executable instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium that when executed by a processor causes the processor to: obtain at least a portion of a phone call; identify a voice signal associated with a person on the phone call; perform a sentiment analysis on the voice signal to generate metadata for the phone call, wherein the metadata identifies: keywords used by the person on the phone call; and characteristics of the voice signal; generate a transcript for the phone call, wherein the transcript comprises text corresponding with the voice signal; input the transcript and the metadata into a machine learning model wherein: the machine learning model is configured to generate a call profile based on text the transcript and the metadata for the phone call; and the call profile comprises a first call classification for the phone call; receive the call profile from the machine learning model in response to inputting the transcript and the metadata into the machine learning model; identify a call log associated with the phone call, wherein the call log comprises a second call classification for the phone call; compare the first call classification to the second call classification; determine the first call classification does not match the second call classification; generate a feedback report that identifies the first call classification in response to determining that the first call classification does not match the second call classification; and output the feedback report.
18. The computer program of claim 17, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and further comprising instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to: determine the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forward the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receive user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; and populate the feedback report based on the user feedback.
19. The computer program of claim 17, wherein: the call profile further comprises one or more priority flags that are each associated with an issue type; and further comprising instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to: determine the call profile comprises at least one priority flag that is set; forward the call profile to a network device associated with a quality control unit; receive user feedback from the network device in response to forwarding the call profile to the network device; determine the first call classification is incorrect based on the user feedback; and generate training data for the machine learning model based on the user feedback.
20. The computer program of claim 17, wherein outputting the feedback report comprises; identifying a second person on the phone call; and sending the feedback report to a network device associated with the second person.
</claims>
</document>
