<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F17/27,G06F3/048,G06F40/284,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERISIGN
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOLLETON, AUBRY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61054157
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems, devices, and methods for generating a domain name using a user interface
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to systems, devices, computer-readable media, and computer-implemented methods for generating domain name suggestions by receiving an input string via a user interface, determining an alternative of the input string, determining affixes of the input string, determining top level domains associated with the input string, determining registration availability of domain names including one-step string sequences from the input string based on the alternative input string, the affixes of the input string, and the top level domains associated with the input string, and generating a display for the user interface, where the display includes: the input string, the alternative of the input string, the affixes of the input string, and the top level domains associated with the input string; and indications of the registration availability of the domains names including the one-step string sequences.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; and a computer-readable medium, wherein the computer-readable medium contains instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: receiving an input string via a user interface tokenizing the input string into a plurality of keywords, wherein the plurality of keywords comprises at least a first keyword and a second keyword; determining an alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords; determining an affix of the input string, wherein determining the affix comprises determining a suffix for the second keyword; determining a top level domain associated with the input string; determining registration availability of domain names comprising one-step string sequences from the input string based on the alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and generating a display for the user interface, wherein the display comprises: the input string, the alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, a separate list comprising the affix corresponding to the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and an indication of registration availability of the domain names comprising the one-step string sequences.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise receiving an initial top level domain, wherein: the determining the registration availability of the domain names comprises determining availability of a domain name comprising the input string and the initial top level domain.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving, via the user interface, a selection of a one-step string sequence of the one-step string sequences; setting the selection as a new input string; tokenizing the new input string into a plurality of keywords; determining an alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords; determining an affix of the new input string; determining a top level domain associated with the new input string; determining registration availability of second domain names comprising second one-step string sequences from the new input string based on the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and generating a second display for the user interface, wherein the second display comprises: the new input string, the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and an indication of registration availability of the second domain names comprising the second one-step string sequences.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise receiving an initial top level domain, wherein: the determining the registration availability of the second domain names comprises determining availability of a domain name comprising the new input string and the initial top level domain.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein when the domain name is available for registration, the operations further comprise: receiving an indication, via the user interface, to register the domain name; navigating the user interface to a webpage to register the domain name, whereby the domain name is registered at a domain name registry.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the alternative, determining the affix, determining the top level domain, determining the registration availability of the domain names, and generating the display are performed each time a subsequent character of the input string is received via the user interface.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the input string is a plurality of characters and determining the alternative, determining the affix, determining the top level domain, determining the registration availability of the domain names, and generating the display are performed in response to the input string being entered via the user interface.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the input string comprises an intermediate keyword between the first and second keywords, and wherein determining the affix comprises determining an infix for the intermediate keyword.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein determining the top level domain associated with the input string comprises determining the top level domain that is synonyms of the first keyword, the second keyword, or a combination thereof.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising modifying a value, wherein the value corresponds to a similarity of suggestions for the alternative, the affix, or both.
11. A method comprising: receiving an input string via a user interface; tokenizing the input string into a plurality of keywords, wherein the plurality of keywords comprise a first keyword and a second keyword; determining an alternative for each keyword of the plurality of keywords; determining an affix of the input string, wherein determining the affix comprises determining a suffix for the second keyword; determining a top level domain associated with the input string; determining registration availability of domain names comprising one-step string sequences from the input string based on the alternative of the at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and generating, using a processor, a display for the user interface, wherein the display comprises: the input string, the alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, a separate list comprising the affix corresponding to the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and an indication of registration availability of the domain names comprising the one-step string sequences.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving an initial top level domain, wherein: the determining the registration availability of the domain names comprises determining availability of a domain name comprising the input string and the initial top level domain.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving, via the user interface, a selection of a one-step string sequence of the one-step string sequences; setting the selection as a new input string; tokenizing the new input string into a plurality of keywords; determining an alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords; determining an affix of the new input string; determining top level domain associated with the new input string; determining registration availability of second domain names comprising second one-step string sequences from the new input string based on the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and generating a second display for the user interface, wherein the second display comprises: the new input string, the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and an indication of registration availability of the second domain names comprising the second one-step string sequences.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising receiving an initial top level domain, wherein: the determining the registration availability of the second domain names comprises determining availability of a domain name comprising the new input string and the initial top level domain.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein when the domain name is available for registration and the method further comprises: receiving an indication, via the user interface, to register the domain name; navigating the user interface to a webpage to register the domain name, whereby the domain name is registered at a domain name registry.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the alternative, determining the affix, determining the top level domain, determining the registration availability of the domain names, and generating the display are performed each time a subsequent character of the input string is received via the user interface.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the input string is a plurality of characters and determining the alternative, determining the affix, determining the top level domain, determining the registration availability of the domain names, and generating the display are performed in response to the input string being entered via the user interface.
18. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions for causing a processor to: receive an input string via a user interface; tokenize the input string into a plurality of keywords, wherein the plurality of keywords comprise at least a first keyword and a second keyword; determine an alternative for each keyword of the plurality of keywords; determine an affix of the input string, wherein determining the affix comprises determining a suffix for the second keyword; determine top level domain associated with the input string; determine registration availability of domain names comprising one-step string sequences from the input string based on the alternative of the at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, the affixes of the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and generate a display for the user interface, wherein the display comprises: the input string, the alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords, a separate list comprising the affix corresponding to the input string, and the top level domain associated with the input string; and an indication of registration availability of the domain names comprising the one-step string sequences.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 18, the instructions further causing the processor to: receive, via the user interface, a selection of a one-step string sequence of the one-step string sequences; set the selection as a new input string; tokenize the new input string into a plurality of keywords; determine an alternative for at least one keyword of the plurality of keywords; determine an affix of the new input string; determine top level domain associated with the new input string; determine registration availability of second domain names comprising second one-step string sequences from the new input string based on the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affix of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and generate a second display for the user interface, wherein the second display comprises: the new input string, the alternatives of the plurality of keywords, the affixes of the new input string, and the top level domains associated with the new input string; and an indication of registration availability of the second domain names comprising the second one-step string sequences.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, the instructions further causing the processor to receive an initial top level domain, wherein: the determining the registration availability of the second domain names comprises determining availability of a domain name comprising the new input string and the initial top level domain.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 20, wherein when the domain name is available for registration the instructions further cause the processor to: receive an indication, via the user interface, to register the domain name; navigate the user interface to a webpage to register the domain name, whereby the domain name is registered at a domain name registry.
</claims>
</document>
