<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63H27/00,A63H30/04,B64C39/02,B64D47/08,G01V8/10,G06K9/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/73,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SZ DJI TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
WU, XIANLIANG
CHEN, LIANSHENG
SHEN, SHAOJIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61299644
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for detecting obstructive object at projected locations within images
</title>

<abstract>
A method for supporting image processing for a movable object includes acquiring one or more images captured by an imaging device borne by the movable object. The imaging device is at least partially blocked by an obstructive object attached to the movable object. The method further includes applying a template to the one or more images to obtain one or more projected locations of the obstructive object within the one or more images and detecting at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within the one or more images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for supporting image processing for a movable object, comprising: acquiring one or more images captured by an imaging device borne by the movable object, wherein the imaging device is at least partially blocked by an obstructive object attached to the movable object; applying a template to the one or more images to obtain one or more projected locations of the obstructive object within the one or more images, the template including a pattern representing one or more projected locations of at least portion of the obstructive object during a rotational motion of the obstructive object; and detecting at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within the one or more images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the obstructive object includes at least a portion of a blade of a propeller system for providing a motion of the movable object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the blade comprises a plurality of markers made of a reflective material and distributed on a lower surface of the blade facing the imaging device; the method further comprising: illuminating the one or more markers on the blade using an illumination source mounted on the movable object.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein each of the plurality of markers is an arc stripe on a respective concentric circle of a plurality of concentric circles with a common central axis, around which the blade is configured to rotate.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of markers comprise multiple groups of stripes with different widths, which are alternatingly distributed near an outer edge of the blade.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the pattern comprises one or more lines respectively representing the one or more projected locations of the obstructive object during the rotational motion, each of the one or more lines being associated with a rotation angle of a corresponding one of the one or more projected locations.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein detecting the at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within the one or more acquired images comprises: detecting the at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within one of the one or more acquired images by determining whether the at least portion of the obstructive object is located on the one or more lines in the one of the one or more acquired images.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein a respective line of the one or more lines is a longitudinal axis of symmetry of the obstructive object.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the template comprises a first group of markers distributed on the one or more lines, wherein markers distributed on a respective line of the one or more lines comprise a first set of markers located at centers of stripes on the obstructive object and a second set of markers located at centers of intervals between two adjacent stripes on the obstructive object.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the template further comprises a second group of markers distributed on motion trails of the stripes on the obstructive object during the rotational motion of the obstructive object.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: collecting pixels of one of the one or more images corresponding to the first group of markers and the second group of markers in the template; determining whether pixel values of the collected pixels corresponding to each of the one or more lines satisfy predetermined criteria; and in accordance with a determination that the pixel values of the collected pixels corresponding to one of the one or more lines satisfy the predetermined criteria, identifying that the obstructive object exists at a rotation angle associated with the one of the one or more lines in the one of the one or more acquired images.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: comparing pixel values of the collected pixels in the one of the one or more acquired images with reference pixel values of corresponding reference pixels in the template.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: calculating statistical values of the pixel values of the collected pixels; and comparing the calculated statistical values with predetermined threshold values.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining whether a total number of pixels satisfying the predetermined criteria and distributed on the one of the one or more lines is greater than a predetermined threshold number; and in accordance with a determination that the total number of pixels distributed on the one of the one or more lines is greater than the predetermined threshold number, identifying that the obstructive object exists at a rotation angle associated with the one of the one or more lines in the one of the one or more acquired images.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: identifying an exposure type of the one of the one or more acquired images; and processing the one of the one or more acquired images in accordance with the identified exposure type.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein identifying the exposure type of the one of the one or more images comprises: determining whether the obstructive object is identified to exist at more than a predetermined number of angles within the one of the one or more images.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein processing the one of the one or more images comprises: in accordance with a determination that the one of the one or more images is a short-exposure image, eliminating areas in the one of the one or more images corresponding to the obstructive object at one or more identified rotation angles.
18. A system for controlling a movable object, the system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing one or more programs that are configured to be executed by the one or more processors for: acquiring one or more images captured by an imaging device borne by the movable object, wherein the imaging device is at least partially blocked by an obstructive object attached to the movable object; applying a template to the one or more images to obtain one or more projected locations of the obstructive object within the one or more images, the template including a pattern representing one or more projected locations of at least portion of the obstructive object during a rotational motion of the obstructive object; and detecting at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within the one or more images.
19. An unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), comprising: a propulsion system; an imaging device comprising an image sensor and an optical device; and one or more processors coupled to the propulsion system and the imaging device, the one or more processors configured for: acquiring one or more images captured by the imaging device borne by the UAV, wherein the imaging device is at least partially blocked by an obstructive object attached to the UAV; applying a template to the one or more images to obtain one or more projected locations of the obstructive object within the one or more images, the template including a pattern representing one or more projected locations of at least portion of the obstructive object during a rotational motion of the obstructive object; and detecting at least portion of the obstructive object at the one or more projected locations within the one or more images.
</claims>
</document>
