<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/332,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRAMER, JARED KANE
SMALL, KEVIN MICHAEL
ROKHLENKO, OLEG
DIDERICKSEN, DEVIN
ZHOU, LI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408494
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Collaborative-filtering based user simulation for dialog systems
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for simulating a user in a conversation are described. A user simulation service and a conversation agent service conduct a dialog. The user simulation service compares a current sequence of stored labels corresponding to statements in the dialog with a plurality of candidate sequences of labels corresponding to statements in a plurality of candidate dialogs to identify a matching sequence of labels. The user simulation sequence identifies a base sequence of labels that includes the matching sequence of labels to identify a label corresponding to an act in the base sequence of labels following the matching sequence of labels. The user simulation service issues the act to the conversation agent service to be used as a simulated user act.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving an agent statement from a conversational agent service that simulates a conversation with a user; adding the agent statement to a log of a current conversation with the conversational agent service; classifying the agent statement with a label; updating a current sequence of labels with the label, wherein each label in the sequence of labels has a corresponding statement in the log; calculating a first score by comparing the current sequence of labels with a first candidate sequence of labels corresponding to a first sequence of statements in a first candidate conversation, the first candidate sequence of labels preceding a first candidate user statement; calculating a second score by comparing the current sequence of labels with a second sequence of labels corresponding to a second sequence of statements in a second candidate conversation, the second candidate sequence of labels preceding a second candidate user statement; and outputting the first candidate user statement when the first score exceeds the second score.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the calculating the first score and the second score further comprises a content-based comparison of the log of the current conversation with the first sequence of statements in the first candidate conversation and the second sequence of statements in the second candidate conversation, respectively.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first score and the second score are calculated using a distance metric.
4. A computer-implemented method comprising: in a user simulation service, comparing a current sequence of stored labels corresponding to statements in a dialog with a plurality of candidate sequences of labels corresponding to statements in a plurality of candidate dialogs to identify a matching sequence of labels, identifying a base sequence of labels that includes the matching sequence of labels to identify a label corresponding to an act in the base sequence following the matching sequence, and issuing the act to a conversation agent service to be used as a simulated user act.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the current sequence of stored labels, the plurality of candidate sequences of labels, the matching sequence of labels, and the base sequence of labels are data structures representing ordered sequences of dialog statements.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the comparing includes comparing a final dialog statement associated with the current sequence of stored labels with only a final dialog statement associated with one of the plurality of candidate sequences of labels.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the current sequence of stored labels relates only to dialog statements attributed to a single party to the dialog.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising outputting a feedback signal based on a score, the score based on a metric comparing the current sequence of stored labels to the matching sequence of labels.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the comparing includes: measuring a distance between the current sequence of stored labels and each of the plurality of candidate sequences of labels to generate a subset of sequences; and measuring a content-based similarity between a statement in a dialog corresponding to the current sequence of stored labels and a statement in each dialog corresponding to a sequence in the subset of sequences.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein data in at least one of the data structures structure classifies each statement of at least one party in the ordered sequence of dialog statements.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the plurality of candidate sequences of labels originate from a single dialog.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the current sequence of stored labels models the dialog with the conversation agent service.
13. A system comprising: a conversation agent service implemented by a first one or more electronic devices; and a user simulation service implemented by a second one or more electronic devices, the user simulation service including instructions that upon execution cause the second one or more electronic devices to: compare a current sequence of stored labels corresponding to statements in a dialog with a plurality of candidate sequences of labels corresponding to statements in a plurality of candidate dialogs to identify a matching sequence of labels; identify a base sequence of labels that includes the matching sequence of labels to identify a label corresponding to an act in the base sequence of labels following the matching sequence of labels; and issue the act to the conversation agent service to be used as a simulated user act.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the current sequence of stored labels, the plurality of candidate sequences of labels, the matching sequence of labels, and the base sequence of labels are data structures representing ordered sequences of dialog statements.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the comparing includes comparing a final dialog statement associated with the current sequence of stored labels with only a final dialog statement associated with one of the plurality of candidate sequences of labels.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the current sequence of stored labels relates only to dialog statements attributed to a single party to the dialog.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the instructions further cause the second one or more electronic devices to output a feedback signal based on a score, the score based on a metric comparing the current sequence of stored labels to the and the matching sequence of labels.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the comparing includes: measuring a distance between the current sequence of stored labels and each of the plurality of candidate sequences of labels to generate a subset of sequences; and measuring a content-based similarity between a statement in a dialog corresponding to the current sequence of stored labels and a statement in each dialog corresponding to a sequence in the subset of sequences.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein data in at least one of the data structures classifies each statement of at least one party in the ordered sequence of dialog statements.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of candidate sequences of labels originate from a single dialog.
</claims>
</document>
