<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/25,G06F16/901,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRIFFITH, DAVID LEE
DATA.WORLD
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRIFFITH, DAVID LEE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68463661
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Matching subsets of tabular data arrangements to subsets of graphical data arrangements at ingestion into data driven collaborative datasets
</title>

<abstract>
Various embodiments relate generally to data science and data analysis, computer software and systems, and wired and wireless network communications to interface among repositories of disparate datasets and computing machine-based entities configured to access datasets, and, more specifically, to a computing and data storage platform to identify and match equivalent subsets of data between an ingested dataset, such as in a tabular data arrangement, and one or more graph-based data arrangements, according to at least some examples. For example, a method may include identifying a tabular data arrangement including a subset of data as a column, computing a compressed data representation for a column of data, correlating a compressed data representation to a reference compressed data representations, detecting a link between a column of data associated with a correlated compressed data representation to a dataset stored in a graph data arrangement, and forming an expanded tabular data arrangement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: identifying subsets of data as columnar data associated with a data arrangement, the data arrangement being a tabular data arrangement including each of the subsets of data as a column; computing a compressed data representation for each column of data in at least a subset of columns, the compressed data representation indicative of a classification type to which the columnar data is associated; implementing data representing a plurality of reference compressed data representations; correlating the compressed data representation to a reference compressed data representation to form a correlated compressed data representation, the reference compressed data representation including a probabilistic data structure; generating a result indicating a likelihood that a value of the compressed data representation matches to the reference compressed data representation; detecting one or more links based on the result between a column of data associated with the correlated compressed data representation to one or more datasets stored in a graph data arrangement being linkable to other graph data arrangements, at least one of the graph data arrangements being disposed in a triplestore data repository; and forming an expanded tabular data arrangement including supplemented columns of data of any data type from the other graph data arrangements.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprises: receiving data representing the subsets of data disposed in data fields of the data arrangement.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprises: linking data in the tabular data arrangement to data m the other graph data arrangements.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein correlating the compressed data representation comprises: identifying the classification type as an identified classification type.
5. The method of claim 4 further comprising: detecting at least one link of the one or more links as a function of a digital signature as the correlated compressed data representation, wherein the identified classification type is association with the digital signature.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprises: generating a compressed data representation for each of the subsets of the graph data to form the plurality of reference compressed data representations.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprises: accessing a plurality of datasets stored as graph data in the graph data arrangement disposed in a repository; and identifying subsets of data associated with the plurality of datasets.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein computing the compressed data representation for each column of data comprises: executing instructions to perform one or more hash functions.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein computing the compressed data representation for each column of data comprises: applying each column of data in the subset of columns to a Bloom filter.
10. The method of claim 1 further comprising: detecting an associated subset of data in the graph data arrangements that includes data relevant to the correlated compressed data representation.
11. An apparatus comprising: a memory including executable instructions; and a processor, responsive to executing the instructions, is configured to: identify subsets of data as columnar data associated with a data arrangement, the data arrangement being a tabular data arrangement including each of the subsets of data as a column; compute a compressed data representation for each column of data in at least a subset of columns, the compressed data representation indicative of a classification type to which the columnar data is associated; implement data representing a plurality of reference compressed data representations; correlate the compressed data representation to a reference compressed data representation to form a correlated compressed data representation, the reference compressed data representation including a probabilistic data structure; generate a result indicating a likelihood that a value of the compressed data representation matches to the reference compressed data representation; detect one or more links based on the result between a column of data associated with the correlated compressed data representation to one or more datasets stored in a graph data arrangement being linkable to other graph data arrangements, at least one of the graph data arrangements being disposed in a triplestore data repository; and form an expanded tabular data arrangement including supplemented columns of data of any data type from the other graph data arrangements.
12. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the processor is further configured to: receive data representing the subsets of data disposed in data fields of the data arrangement.
13. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the processor is further configured to: link data in the tabular data arrangement to data in the other graph data arrangements.
14. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein a subset of the instructions to cause the processor to correlate the compressed data representation further causes the processor to: identify the classification type as an identified classification type.
15. The apparatus of claim 14 wherein the processor is further configured to: detect at least one link of the one or more links as a function of a digital signature as the correlated compressed data representation, wherein the identified classification type is association with the digital signature.
16. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the processor is further configured to: generate a compressed data representation for each of the subsets of the graph data to form the plurality of reference compressed data representations.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein the processor is further configured to: access a plurality of datasets stored as graph data in the graph data arrangement disposed in a repository; and identify subsets of data associated with the plurality of datasets.
18. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein a subset of the instructions to cause the processor to compute the compressed data representation for each column of data a subset of the instructions to cause the processor to: execute instructions to perform one or more hash functions.
19. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein a subset of the instructions to cause the processor to compute the compressed data representation for each column of data a subset of the instructions to cause the processor to: apply each column of data in the subset of columns to a Bloom filter.
20. The apparatus of claim 11 wherein the processor is further configured to: detect an associated subset of data in the graph data arrangements that includes data relevant to the correlated compressed data representation.
</claims>
</document>
