<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,H04W4/029,H04W4/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHAH, SALIK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68063896
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems for determining customer interest in goods
</title>

<abstract>
A system for determining customer interest in goods includes one or more memory devices storing instructions and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions. The processors are configured to receive customer location data from a smart device associated with a customer indicating the customer is within a retail venue of a retailer and to monitor, based on the customer location data, a current location of the customer within the retail venue. The processors are further configured to receive goods location data indicating locations of goods for sale within the retail venue and determine that the customer is interested in a particular good for sale within the retail venue based on the current customer location remaining in proximity to the location of the particular good for a predetermined period of time. The processors also conduct a search of pricing of the particular good at one or more other retailers and send a price comparison to the customer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining customer interest in goods, comprising: receiving customer location data from a smart device associated with a customer indicating the customer is within a retail venue of a retailer; monitoring, based on the customer location data, a current location of the customer within the retail venue; receiving, from a plurality of transmitter devices, goods location data indicating locations of goods for sale within the retail venue; determining an interest of the customer indicating that the customer is interested in a first good of the goods for sale based on the current location of the customer remaining in proximity to a location of the first good for a predetermined period of time; generating a profile of shopping behavior of the customer based on the determined interest of the customer; generating a model configured to analyze the profile of the shopping behavior of the customer, and determine a placement within the retail venue of the first good based on the analyzed profile; conducting a search of pricing of the first good at one or more other retailers; and sending a result of the search of the pricing to the customer.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the interest of the customer, wherein the profile of the shopping behavior of the customer is generated based on the stored interest.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving location data of other customers within the retail venue; determining interests of the other customers; storing the determined interests of the other customers based on the location data of the other customers; and generating a profile of shopping behavior for one or more of the other customers based on the stored interests of the other customers.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: compiling each of the generated profiles of the shopping behavior for the other customers to generate a model of aggregate customer interest for a plurality of products at the retail venue.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising: monitoring the location of the first good; and determining whether the customer decided to purchase the first good based on the monitored current location of the customer and the monitored location of the first good.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the model is further configured to determine a discounted price for the first good based on the analyzed profile, the method further comprising: sending, based on the model and to the retail venue, the determined discounted price for the first good and an indication of the determined placement within the retail venue of the first good.
7. A retail store monitoring system, comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to cause the system to: receive customer location data from a smart device associated with a customer indicating the customer is within a retail venue of a retailer; monitor, based on the customer location data, a current location of the customer within the retail venue; receive, from a plurality of transmitter devices, goods location data indicating locations of goods for sale within the retail venue; determine an interest of the customer indicating that the customer is interested in a first good of the goods for sale based on the current location of the customer remaining in proximity to a location of the first good for a predetermined period of time; generate a profile of shopping behavior of the customer based on the determined interest of the customer; generate a model configured to analyze the profile of the shopping behavior of the customer, and determine a placement within the retail venue of the first good based on the analyzed profile; conduct a search of pricing of the first good at one or more other retailers; and send a price comparison to the customer for the first good based on results of the search of the pricing.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: store the interest of the customer, wherein the profile of the shopping behavior of the customer is based on the stored interest.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: receive location data of other customers within the retail venue; determine interests of the other customers; store the determined interests of the other customers based on the location data of the other customers; and generate a profile of shopping behavior for one or more of the other customers based on the stored interests of the other customers.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: compile each of the generated profiles of the shopping behavior for the other customers to generate a model of aggregate customer interest for a plurality of products at the retail venue.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: monitor the location of the first good; and determine whether the customer decided to purchase the first good based on the monitored current location of the customer and the monitored location of the first good.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein the model is further configured to determine a discounted price for the first good based on the analyzed profile, the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: send, based on the analysis of the model, and to the smart device of the customer, the determined discount price for the first good.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: receive customer location data from smart devices associated with each of a plurality of customers at a plurality of retail venues, wherein the plurality of customers comprises the customer, and the plurality of retail venues comprises the retail venue; receive additional goods location data indicating locations of goods for sale in the plurality of retail venues; determine, for each of the plurality of customers, one or more interests of the customer indicating that the customer is interested in at least one good for sale in a corresponding retail venue of the plurality of retail venues where the customer is currently located based on of the customer remaining in proximity to of the at least one good for sale in the corresponding retail venue of the plurality of retail venues for the predetermined period of time; store each of the one or more determined interests of each of the plurality of customers; and generate a profile of each of the plurality of customers based on the stored one or more interests of that customer.
14. The system of claim 13, the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, being further configured to cause the system to: compile each of the generated profiles for the plurality of customers to generate a model of aggregate customer interest in a plurality of goods at the plurality of retail venues.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instruction, being further configured to cause the system to: determine whether each of the plurality of customers decides to purchase the corresponding at least one good for sale based on the customer location data of the plurality of customers and the additional goods location data indicating locations of goods for sale in the plurality of retail venues.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the model of the aggregate customer interest in the plurality of goods is generated based on an analysis of the determined decisions to purchase the at least one good for sale by the plurality of customers.
17. The system of claim 7, wherein if the customer does not purchase the first good after receiving the price comparison, the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: send the customer a price adjustment for the first good to incentivize future purchase of the first good.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the one or more processors, when executing the instructions, are further configured to cause the system to: determine whether to adjust a price of the first good at the retail venue, all affiliated retail venues, or the retail venue and all affiliate retail venues based upon a determination that a predetermined number of customers did not purchase the first good after receiving the price comparison.
19. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer program instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, effectuate operations comprising: receiving customer location data from a smart device associated with a customer indicating the customer is within a retail venue of a retailer; monitoring, based on the customer location data, a current location of the customer within the retail venue; receiving goods location data from a plurality of transmitter devices indicating locations of goods for sale within the retail venue; monitoring, based on the goods location data, a current location of the goods within the retail venue; determining that the customer is interested in a particular good for sale within the retail venue based on one of the current customer location remaining in proximity to the current location of the particular good for a predetermined period of time, or a listing of the particular good within proximity to the customer on a customer account; storing each determination that the customer is interested in the particular good for sale within the retail venue; generating a profile of shopping behavior of the customer based on the stored interest determinations; conducting a search of pricing of the particular good at one or more other retailers; sending a price comparison to the customer for the particular good based on results of the price search; and generating a model of the customer interest in a plurality of goods at the retail venues.
</claims>
</document>
