<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F16/16,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
YI FENG
DOUGHERTY, CASEY M.
MURRETT, MARTIN J.
RUFFENACH, COLLIN D.
SCHEPMAN, CHRISTOPHER S.
ORTIZ, GUILLERMO
RAMACHANDRAN, BALAJI
METZ, JEAN S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68693785
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Segmenting users based on user engagement
</title>

<abstract>
In some implementations, a server device can segment users based on user engagement with an application on a user device. For example, server device can receive user event data from many user devices indicating user activities with respect to the application and/or content presented by the application. The server device can generate user engagement segments based on the received user event data. The server device can generate predictive models for each user engagement segment based on the received user event data. The server device can determine which particular user engagement segments a particular user is associated with based on user event data associated with the particular user and/or the predictions generated by the predictive models. The application on the user device associated with the particular user can then be configured according to the user engagement segments associated with the particular user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device from a user device, current user event data associated with a particular user identifier of a software application on the user device, the current user event data describing user engagement with the software application on the user device; based on the current user event data, determining, by the computing device, an engagement lifecycle stage for the particular user identifier of the software application; selecting, by the computing device, a prediction model based on the determined engagement lifecycle stage of the particular user identifier, the prediction model generated from historical user event data corresponding to a plurality of distinct user identifiers that transitioned from the determined engagement lifecycle stage to a second lifecycle stage; generating, by the computing device, a score for the particular user identifier based on the prediction model and the received user event data associated with the particular user identifier, the score indicating a likelihood that the particular user identifier will transition from the determined engagement lifecycle stage to the second engagement lifecycle stage, determine, by the computing device, one or more engagement segments for the particular user identifier based on the current user event data, engagement lifecycle stage, and the score; generating, by the computing device, a content configuration for the software application based on the one or more engagement segments determined for the particular user identifier of the software application; and sending, by the computing device, the content configuration to the software application on the user device, where the software application presents content items on a display of the user device based on the content configuration.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular user identifier and the plurality of distinct user identifiers are anonymous user identifiers that cannot be used to identify the user device and a user of the user device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the engagement lifecycle stage is determined based on a breadth score that represents a number of unique content topic views associated with the particular user identifier over a period of time.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the engagement lifecycle stage is determined based on a consistency score that represents a number of unique day parts during which a content view was recorded in the user event data associated with the particular user identifier, the number of unique day parts corresponding to a number of parts per day multiplied by a number of days.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is a user adoption model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will adopt the software application as a source of content.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the user adoption model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: an amount of time viewing a first content item, a number of recommended content item headlines viewed after viewing the first content item, and a number of unique content topics viewed in the software application.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is a user churn model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will stop using the software application as a source of content.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the user churn model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: specific of content topics viewed, a diversity of content sources viewed, and content discovery sources.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is a user migration model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will increase or decrease their engagement with the software application.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the user migration model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: whether the user represented by the particular user identifier viewed a content item from a new topic in a preceding period of time, an amount of time the user represented by the particular user identifier spent per active day viewing content in the software application in a preceding period of time, and whether the user represented by the particular user identifier viewed a particular content category in a preceding period of time.
11. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium including one or more sequences of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, by a computing device from a user device, current user event data associated with a particular user identifier of a software application on the user device, the current user event data describing user engagement with the software application on the user device; based on the current user event data, determining, by the computing device, an engagement lifecycle stage for the particular user identifier of the software application; selecting, by the computing device, a prediction model based on the determined engagement lifecycle stage of the particular user identifier, the prediction model generated from historical user event data corresponding to a plurality of distinct user identifiers that transitioned from the determined engagement lifecycle stage to a second lifecycle stage; generating, by the computing device, a score for the particular user identifier based on the prediction model and the received user event data associated with the particular user identifier, the score indicating a likelihood that the particular user identifier will transition from the determined engagement lifecycle stage to the second engagement lifecycle stage; determine, by the computing device, one or more engagement segments for the particular user identifier based on the current user event data, engagement lifecycle stage, and the score; generating, by the computing device, a content configuration for the software application based on the one or more engagement segments determined for the particular user identifier of the software application; and sending, by the computing device, the content configuration to the software application on the user device, where the software application presents content items on a display of the user device based on the content configuration.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the particular user identifier and the plurality of distinct user identifiers are anonymous user identifiers that cannot be used to identify the user device and a user of the user device.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the engagement lifecycle stage is determined based on a breadth score that represents a number of unique content topic views associated with the particular user identifier over a period of time.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the engagement lifecycle stage is determined based on a consistency score that represents a number of unique day parts during which a content view was recorded in the user event data associated with the particular user identifier, the number of unique day parts corresponding to a number of parts per day multiplied by a number of days.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the prediction model is a user adoption model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will adopt the software application as a source of content.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the user adoption model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: an amount of time viewing a first content item, a number of recommended content item headlines viewed after viewing the first content item, and a number of unique content topics viewed in the software application.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein the prediction model is a user churn model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will stop using the software application as a source of content.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the user churn model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: specific of content topics viewed, a diversity of content sources viewed, and content discovery sources.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the prediction model is a user migration model that predicts the likelihood that a user represented by the particular user identifier will increase or decrease their engagement with the software application.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the user migration model is generated based on a plurality of modeling features representing user behaviors with respect to content presented by the software application, including: whether the user represented by the particular user identifier viewed a content item from a new topic in a preceding period of time, an amount of time the user represented by the particular user identifier spent per active day viewing content in the software application in a preceding period of time, and whether the user represented by the particular user identifier viewed a particular content category in a preceding period of time.
</claims>
</document>
