<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/50,G16H50/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CERNER INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCNAIR DOUGLAS S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70856222
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Maintaining stability of health services entities treating influenza
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer-readable media are provided for determining and mitigating the aggregate loss risk associated with hospitalization for epidemic or pandemic influenza for health insurers, reinsurers, provider organizations, or public policy-makers. An accurate prediction of this risk may be provided, which may be used to determine parameters for reinsurance underwriting or for issuance and trading of catastrophe bonds ("cat bonds") or other insurance-linked securities (ILS) and derivatives to lay off substantial amounts of such risk to capital markets investors. In particular, one embodiment uses a novel log-expit transformation of the raw data and non-parametric gradient-boosting machine-learning modeling in order to determine a high-claim right-tail risk. Some embodiments further comprise securitizing epidemic or pandemic influenza acute care health services catastrophe risk.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for securitizing epidemic or pandemic acute-care health services catastrophe risk comprising: receiving structured data comprising non-classified historical insurance claims and electronic health record information for a plurality of hospital admissions over a duration of time from a network-based non-transitory storage device; generating a set of transformed data using one or more processors executing instructions that cause one or more processors to perform an expit transformation on the received structured data; generating one or more risk classification instruments using a model developed to predict aggregate risk based on a distribution of the set of transformed data; establishing a communication coupling with a networked server accessible by multiple users; and publishing a first collection of the one or more risk classification instruments to the server.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more risk classification instruments represent an individual epidemic or pandemic catastrophe determined by the model based on a diagnosis included in the electronic health record information.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the model includes machine-learning trained with classified historical insurance claims and corresponding electronic health record information.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein issuing the first collection of the one or more risk classification instruments corresponds to a first issue date, and wherein the method further comprises issuing a second collection of risk instruments of the one or more risk classification instruments on a second issue date, the second issue date being after the first issue date.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more risk classification instruments have an associated plurality of terms, the plurality of terms including class terms and series terms, the class terms being defined for all risk classification instruments of a first risk class by the model during the generation of the one or more risk classification instruments, the series terms being defined for the one or more risk classification instruments a given collection of the one or more risk classification instruments at the time of publication of the collection to the networked server, the series terms including an interest spread defining an amount payable to an investor, and a maturity date defining a date on which a principal amount will be returned to the investor where no realization event has occurred.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a risk classification represents epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks selected from the group consisting of influenza, respiratory syncytial virus, and bacterial pneumonias that are frequently sequelae of primary viral respiratory infection.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more risk classification instruments categorize epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks by a region or by a time frame.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein training the model includes providing input comprising cumulative in-patient charges arising from influenza admissions per 1,000 admissions to a hospital as a function of one or more variables comprising season-to-date's mechanical ventilation procedure rate (ICD-9 procedures 96.7), acute dialysis procedure rate (ICD-9 procedures 54.98 or 38.95), rate of discharge to SNF or LTAC facilities, or in-hospital mortality rate.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic health record information includes hospital-related information comprising one or more variables for bed-size, teaching status, or geographic location (GIS coordinates).
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic health record information includes regionor community-related information comprising one or more variables for vaccine uptake rate, timing of vaccine availability, or spectrum of vaccine effectiveness against the virus strains that are prevalent in the duration of time.
11. A method of distributing instruments representing securitized epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risk, the method comprising: generating a set of transformed data using an expit transformation of structured data accessible via a non-transitory storage medium, the structured data comprising historical insurance claims and associated electronic health record information for a plurality of hospital admissions over an interval of time; generating a first risk instrument classifying epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risk using a model trained to predict aggregate risk based on a distribution of the set of transformed data, the first risk instrument being publishable in allotments; publishing a first allotment of the first risk instrument to an exchange maintained by a server accessible by multiple users.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: training the model using Tweedie boosting a first partition of a plurality expit transformed pre-classified historical insurance claims and associated electronic health record information; and validating the model using a second partition of the plurality expit transformed pre-classified historical insurance claims and associated electronic health record information.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the first allotment of the first risk instruments comprise an associated plurality of terms, the plurality of terms including class terms and series terms, the class terms being defined for all risk instruments of a risk class, the series terms being defined for risk instruments of a given allotment at the time of issuance of the allotment, the series terms including an interest spread defining an amount payable to an investor, and a maturity date defining a date on which a principal amount will be returned to the investor if no realization event has occurred.
14. A computer-readable storage device having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon that when executed by a processor, facilitate a method for securitizing epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risk, the method comprising: developing a risk classification model using the processor to expit transform a first structured data set retrieved from a remote memory store the training set and train the risk classification model using the expit transformation of the first structured data set, the first structured data comprising pre-classified historical insurance claims and corresponding electronic health record information; receiving a second structured data set non-classified historical insurance claims and associated electronic health record information for a plurality of hospital admissions over a duration of time, the second structured data set maintained by a limited access server; generating a set of transformed data using one or more processors executing instructions that cause the processors to perform an expit transformation on the received second structured data set; generating one or more risk classification instruments using the developed risk classification model to predict aggregate risk based on a distribution of the set of transformed data; and publishing a first collection of the one or more risk classification instruments to the server accessible by multiple users.
15. The computer readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the one or more risk classification instruments include a plurality of risk classes each representing an individual epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risk, and one or more risk classes representing a combination of epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks represented by two or more of the plurality of risk classes.
16. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the individual epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks are uncorrelated or weakly correlated by time interval or across regions.
17. The computer readable storage medium of claim 14 further comprising causing the first collection of risk instruments to be issued on a first issue date; and causing a second collection of risk instruments of the first risk class to be issued on a second issue date, the second issue date being after the first issue date.
18. The computer readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the risk classification instruments of the first risk class have an associated plurality of terms, the plurality of terms including class terms and series terms, the class terms being defined for all risk instruments of the first risk class during the establishing of the first risk class, the series terms being defined for risk instruments of a given collection of risk instruments of the first series at the time of issuance of the collection, the series terms including an interest spread defining an amount payable to an investor, and a maturity date defining a date on which a principal amount will be returned to the investor if no realization event has occurred.
19. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the risk classes represent epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks selected from the group comprising in-patient acute-care hospital care, long-term acute care (LTAC), and skilled nursing facility (SNF) care.
20. The computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the risk classes categorize epidemic or pandemic catastrophe risks by a region or by a time period.
</claims>
</document>
