<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/38,H04B3/54,H04B7/0413
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66328958
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multi-input multi-output guided wave system and methods for use therewith
</title>

<abstract>
In accordance with one or more embodiments, a MIMO transceiver generates first electromagnetic signals convey first data in accordance with one or more MIMO techniques. The MIMO transceiver generates, responsive to the first electromagnetic signals, first electromagnetic waves on a plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves are guided by a plurality of surfaces of the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves convey the first data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A communication system, comprising: a plurality of transmission lines; and a multi-input multi-output (MIMO) transceiver, coupled to the plurality of transmission lines, the MIMO transceiver facilitating a transmission of first electromagnetic waves via the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves are guided by a plurality of surfaces of the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves convey first data in accordance with one or more MIMO techniques, and wherein the MIMO transceiver includes a MIMO processor configured to receive channel state feedback indicating channel conditions associated with propagation of the first electromagnetic waves along the plurality of transmission lines, wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to first noise and interference conditions, the MIMO processor selects at least one first MIMO technique to simultaneously send multiple parallel channels of data over differing ones of plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves, and wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to second noise and interference conditions, the MIMO processor selects a second MIMO technique to simultaneously send the same data over each of the plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves.
2. The communication system of claim 1, wherein a plurality of spacers is coupled to the plurality of transmission lines at different locations along the plurality of transmission lines.
3. The communication system of claim 2, wherein each spacer of the plurality of spacers maintains a uniform spacing between the plurality of transmission lines.
4. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of transmission lines includes a plurality of cables.
5. The communication system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the plurality of transmission lines comprises an insulated conductor.
6. The communication system of claim 1, wherein the MIMO transceiver includes a plurality of couplers configured to launch the first electromagnetic waves on the plurality of transmission lines.
7. The communication system of claim 6, wherein the MIMO transceiver further includes a plurality of radio frequency front ends, coupled to the plurality of couplers, configured to generate first electromagnetic signals to facilitate launching of the first electromagnetic waves on the plurality of transmission lines via the plurality of couplers.
8. The communication system of claim 7, wherein the MIMO processor is further configured to control the plurality of radio frequency front ends to generate the first electromagnetic signals in accordance with the one or more MIMO techniques, and wherein the MIMO processor selects the at least one first MIMO technique to simultaneously send the multiple parallel channels of data over the differing ones of plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves via differing wave modes, and wherein the MIMO processor selects the second MIMO technique to simultaneously send the same data over each of the plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves via the same wave mode.
9. The communication system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of couplers is further configured to receive second electromagnetic waves from the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the plurality of radio frequency front ends receives second electromagnetic signals in response to the second electromagnetic waves, wherein the second electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines without requiring the electrical return path, wherein the second electromagnetic waves convey second data from a remote device that receives the first electromagnetic waves, and wherein the MIMO transceiver extracts the second data based on the second electromagnetic signals and in accordance with the one or more MIMO techniques.
10. The communication system of claim 9, wherein the MIMO processor is configured to generate baseband signals conveying third data based on the channel state feedback included in the second data, wherein the baseband signals are generated in accordance with the one or more MIMO techniques, wherein the plurality of radio frequency front ends is configured to generate third electromagnetic signals based on the baseband signals, wherein the plurality of couplers is configured to launch third electromagnetic waves on the plurality of transmission lines based on the third electromagnetic signals and wherein the third electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines to the remote device without requiring the electrical return path.
11. The communication system of claim 8, wherein the MIMO processor selects the one or more MIMO techniques from a plurality of MIMO techniques.
12. The communication system of claim 11, wherein the plurality of MIMO techniques includes: a precoding, a spatial multiplexing, a mode division multiplexing, or a diversity coding or a combination thereof.
13. A method, comprising: generating, via a multi-input multi-output (MIMO) transceiver, first electromagnetic signals to convey first data in accordance with one or more MIMO techniques; and generating, via the MIMO transceiver and responsive to the first electromagnetic signals, first electromagnetic waves on a plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves are guided by a plurality of surfaces of the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves convey the first data, and wherein the MIMO transceiver includes a MIMO processor configured to receive channel state feedback indicating channel conditions associated with propagation of the first electromagnetic waves along the plurality of transmission lines, wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to first noise and interference conditions, the MIMO processor selects at least one first MIMO technique to simultaneously send multiple parallel channels of data over differing ones of plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves, and wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to second noise and interference conditions, the MIMO processor selects a second MIMO technique to simultaneously send the same data over each of the plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving, via the MIMO transceiver, second electromagnetic waves from the plurality of transmission lines, the second electromagnetic waves conveying second data from a remote device; generating, via the MIMO transceiver, second electromagnetic signals in response to the second electromagnetic waves; and extracting the second data, via the MIMO transceiver, based on the second electromagnetic signals and in accordance with the one or more MIMO techniques.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: generating, via the MIMO transceiver, baseband signals conveying third data based on the channel state feedback included in the second data, wherein the baseband signals are generated in accordance with the one or more MIMO techniques; generating, via the MIMO transceiver, third electromagnetic signals based on the baseband signals; and launching, via the MIMO transceiver, third electromagnetic waves on the plurality of transmission lines.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: selecting, via the MIMO processor, the one or more MIMO techniques from a plurality of MIMO techniques.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more MIMO techniques include: a precoding, a spatial multiplexing, a mode division multiplexing, or a diversity coding or a combination thereof.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein the plurality of transmission lines includes a plurality of medium voltage cables; wherein a plurality of spacers is coupled to the plurality of medium voltage cables at different locations along the plurality of transmission lines; and wherein each spacer of the plurality of spacers maintains a uniform spacing between the plurality of medium voltage cables.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of medium voltage cables is insulated.
20. A communication device, comprising: means for generating first electromagnetic signals convey first data in accordance with one or more multi-input multi-output (MIMO) techniques; and means for launching, responsive to the first electromagnetic signals, first electromagnetic waves on a plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves are guided by a plurality of surfaces of the plurality of transmission lines, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the plurality of transmission lines without requiring an electrical return path, wherein the first electromagnetic waves convey the first data, and wherein the means for launching is configured to receive channel state feedback indicating channel conditions associated with propagation of the first electromagnetic waves along the plurality of transmission lines, wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to first noise and interference conditions, the means for launching selects at least one first MIMO technique to simultaneously send multiple parallel channels of data over differing ones of plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves, and wherein, when the channel conditions correspond to second noise and interference conditions, the means for launching selects a second MIMO technique to simultaneously send the same data over each of the plurality of transmission lines via the propagation of the first electromagnetic waves.
</claims>
</document>
