<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/958,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04N21/2743,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
ELMIEH, BABACK
KRIEGER, MICHEL
JAIS, ALEXANDRE
SILBER, IAN MCINTYRE
SPALTER, IAN
CROSSEN, REX
WHALEY, JOHN RUSSELL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67058578
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for sharing content
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and non-transitory computer-readable media can determine at least one media content item that was captured and provided by a camera device; determine at least one story associated with the camera device, the story publishable through a social networking system; and publish the at least one media content item in the story publishable through the social networking system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: linking, by a computing system, a plurality of camera devices with a story on a social networking system through which media content items captured by the plurality of camera devices are published, wherein the media content items published in the story are made inaccessible after a pre-defined time interval from publication; determining, by the computing system, at least one media content item that was captured and provided by a camera device of the plurality of camera devices, wherein the at least one media content item is associated with information identifying the linked plurality of camera devices; determining, by the computing system, the story on the social networking system based on the information; and automatically publishing, by the computing system, the at least one media content item in the story through the social networking system.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further comprises: determining, by the computing system, the story linked to the camera device.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further comprises: determining, by the computing system, at least one mood of at least one individual represented in subject matter captured by the at least one media content item, and determining, by the computing system, the story corresponding to the at least one mood.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further comprises: determining, by the computing system, a point of interest associated with the camera device; and determining, by the computing system, the story corresponding to the point of interest.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the camera device is configured to automatically capture and provide the at least one media content item when one or more conditions are satisfied.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein a given condition requires that a threshold number of individuals be present within a viewfinder of the camera device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein a given condition requires that a threshold number of individuals present within a viewfinder of the camera device satisfy a facial expression requirement.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: determining, by the computing system, a live content stream being captured and provided by the camera device; and publishing, by the computing system, the live content stream through the social networking system.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method further comprising: determining, by the computing system, one or more users represented in subject matter captured by the at least one media content item; and providing, by the computing system, the at least one media content item in one or more messages sent to the one or more users, the messages being sent through the social networking system.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, the method further comprising: determining, by the computing system, one or more other users related to a given user represented in subject matter captured by the at least one media content item, wherein the other users are not represented in the captured subject matter; and providing, by the computing system, the at least one media content item in one or more messages sent to the other users, the messages being sent through the social networking system.
11. A system comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to perform: linking a plurality of camera devices with a story on a social networking system through which media content items captured by the plurality of camera devices are published, wherein the media content items published in the story are made inaccessible after a pre-defined time interval from publication; determining at least one media content item that was captured and provided by a camera device of the plurality of camera devices, wherein the at least one media content item is associated with information identifying the linked plurality of camera devices; determining, by the computing system, the story on the social networking system based on the information; and automatically publishing the at least one media content item in the story publishable through the social networking system.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the system to perform: determining the story linked to the camera device.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the system to perform: determining at least one mood of at least one individual represented in subject matter captured by the at least one media content item, and determining the story corresponding to the at least one mood.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the system to perform: determining a point of interest associated with the camera device; and determining the story corresponding to the point of interest.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the camera device is configured to automatically capture and provide the at least one media content item when one or more conditions are satisfied.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium including instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform a method comprising: linking a plurality of camera devices with a story on a social networking system through which media content items captured by the plurality of camera devices are published, wherein the media content items published in the story are made inaccessible after a pre-defined time interval from publication; determining at least one media content item that was captured and provided by a camera device; determining the story on the social networking system based on the information; and automatically publishing the at least one media content item in the story publishable through the social networking system.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the computing system to perform: determining the story linked to the camera device.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the computing system to perform: determining at least one mood of at least one individual represented in subject matter captured by the at least one media content item, and determining the story corresponding to the at least one mood.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein determining the story on the social networking system further causes the computing system to perform: determining a point of interest associated with the camera device; and determining the story corresponding to the point of interest.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the camera device is configured to automatically capture and provide the at least one media content item when one or more conditions are satisfied.
</claims>
</document>
