<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F16/2457,G06F7/04,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOUGLAS, LAWRENCE H.
LIU YA
Volles, Eric
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425650
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Using common identifiers related to location to link fraud across mobile devices
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure provide systems, methods, and devices for countering fraudulent transactions by identifying devices associated with fraudulent activity. Examples relate to a system which compares identification parameters of devices associated with fraudulent activity, directly or indirectly, to identification parameters of a particular device. Based on the comparison, a confidence score may be generated may relate to the risk of fraud associated with that device. In some examples, the system may challenge a user with additionally security questions if the confidence score associated with a device indicates an increased risk of fraud.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A counter fraud system comprising: a database containing device signatures associated with fraudulent activity; a first device comprising a processor and a computer readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the first device to: record a plurality of identification parameter values, the plurality of identification parameter values including an application usage history, an identification of a plurality of communication networks, and a behavior pattern, wherein: the application usage history comprises one or more cookies indicative of a browsing history and a program usage, and the behavior pattern comprises a pattern of travel between a first location and a second location and a speed of travel between the first location and the second location; generate a first device signature including the application usage history and the behavior pattern; and transmit the first device signature to a server; a server in communication with the database wherein the server is configured to: receive the first device signature; compare the first device signature to device signatures associated with fraudulent activity stored in the database; and generate a confidence score based on the compared signatures.
2. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to initiate security procedures if the confidence score is within a predetermined range.
3. The counter fraud system of claim 2, wherein the security procedures comprise one of second factor authentication, user identification verification, or financial information verification.
4. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the server is further configured to record additional information associated with the user if the confidence score is within a predetermined range.
5. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the identification parameter values comprise at least one of a cell tower identifier, a GPS location, an altitude, a Bluetooth beacon, a Bluetooth enabled device name, a Wi-Fi network name, a Wi-Fi signal strength, a location history, a device fingerprint, a device name, an operating system version, an IP address, or information associated with an application installed on the first device.
6. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the first device signature includes user profile information acquired from an account associated with the user.
7. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the first device signature includes at least one of vocal information, behavioral information, or device usage information.
8. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the server is configured to compare location information associated with the first device to location information associated with fraudulent activity.
9. A risk assessment method, the method comprising: acquiring, by an application, information associated with a user device, the acquired information comprising an identification of a plurality of communication networks, a usage history associated with the application, a behavior pattern, and at least one selected from the group of the following: Wi-Fi network names, Wi-Fi signal strength, GPS location, altimeter information, Bluetooth beacons, Bluetooth signal strength, Bluetooth enabled device names, cell tower identifiers, cell tower signal strength, device location history, device fingerprint, device name, operating system version, IP address, and information associated with an application installed on the user device, wherein: the application usage history comprises one or more cookies indicative of a browsing history and a program usage, and the behavior pattern comprises a pattern of travel between a first location and a second location and a speed of travel between the first location and the second location; transmitting the acquired information to a server; comparing, by the server, the acquired information to stored information associated with fraudulent activity; and generating, by the server, a confidence score associated with the user device based on one or more similarities between the acquired information and the stored information, wherein the one or more similarities include a plurality selected from the group of the following: common identifications of a plurality of communication networks, Wi-Fi network names, Wi-Fi signal strength, GPS location, altimeter information, Bluetooth beacons, Bluetooth signal strength, Bluetooth enabled device names, cell tower identifiers, cell tower signal strength, device location history, device fingerprints, device names, operating system versions, IP addresses, information associated with applications, common usage histories associated with applications, and common behavior patterns.
10. The risk assessment method of claim 9, further comprising approving a transaction associated with the user device if the confidence score is within a first predetermined range.
11. The risk assessment method of claim 9, further comprising implementing a security challenge if the confidence score is within a second predetermined range.
12. The risk assessment method of claim 11, further comprising revising the confidence score based on a user response to a security challenge.
13. The risk assessment method of claim 11, wherein the security challenge requires a user to gesture near the user device with a contactless card.
14. The risk assessment method of claim 11, wherein the security challenge requires a user to submit biometric information.
15. The risk assessment method of claim 9, further comprising denying a transaction if the confidence score is within a third predetermined range.
16. The risk assessment method of claim 9, further comprising generating a confidence score for a second device based on the confidence score associated with the user device.
17. The risk assessment method of claim 9, wherein the acquired information is analyzed using machine learning to generate a device signature.
18. A counter fraud system comprising: a computer network comprising at least one server; a user device in communication with the server and configured to record identifying parameters related to the user device, wherein the identifying parameters include: an application usage history comprises one or more cookies indicative of a browsing history and a program usage, a behavior pattern comprising a pattern of travel between a first location and a second location and a speed of travel between the first location and the second location, and an identification of a plurality of communication networks; and a database of identifying parameters related to devices associated to with fraudulent activity; wherein the server is configured to: compare the identifying parameters related to the user device to the identifying parameters related to the devices associated with fraudulent; generate a score based on the compared identifying parameters; and challenge or deny a transaction based on the generated score.
19. The counter fraud system of claim 1, wherein the behavior pattern further comprises a mode of transportation between the first location and the second location.
20. The risk assessment method of claim 9, wherein the behavior pattern further comprises a mode of transportation between the first location and the second location.
</claims>
</document>
