<document>

<filing_date>
2015-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-03-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CABRERA LUIS F.
WANG GANG
ARTAMONOV, MICHAEL A.
HANEKAMP, JR., DAVID A.
MCCLUSKEY, KEVIN M.
DUNBAR, DANIEL P.
HALVORSEN, PER-KRISTIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73823522
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating explanations for year-over-year tax changes
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for generating an explanation for changes in tax liability over different tax reporting periods includes a computing device executing a tax calculation engine associated with tax preparation software. The tax calculation engine operates on first and second tax calculation graphs representing different tax reporting periods. The first and second tax calculation graphs are different in at least one respect. The first and second tax calculation graphs each describe data dependent tax operations comprising a plurality of interconnecting functional nodes connected by one of a plurality of functions. The computing device automatically identifies the differences among nodes within the respective first and second tax calculation graphs and executes an explanation engine associated with the tax preparation software to generate a textual explanation identifying one or more differences among the nodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a computing device comprising a computer processor, a memory and a display; a computerized tax return preparation application comprising computer executable instructions stored in the memory and executable by the processor, the computerized tax return preparation application being operable to generate an electronic tax return and comprising: a shared data store configured to store runtime data of the electronic tax return and a plurality of narratives associated with a first reporting period and a plurality of narratives associated with a second reporting period, an interface controller in communication with the shared data store, a first calculation graph structure for the first reporting period, the first calculation graph structure comprising a plurality of nodes including a plurality of leaf or input nodes, a plurality of functional nodes and associated respective functions, wherein respective calculation paths through the first calculation graph structure connect a plurality of data dependent nodes of the first calculation graph structure, a second calculation graph structure for the second reporting period, the second calculation graph structure comprising a plurality of nodes including one or more of leaf or input nodes, functional nodes and associated respective functions, and a plurality of calculation paths, each calculation path connecting a plurality of data dependent nodes of the second calculation graph structure, wherein the associated respective functions of the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure comprise functions in common with the tax preparation application such that changes in tax laws and/or regulations may be implemented by changing one or more of the associated respective functions, a calculation engine in communication with the shared data store and configured to receive the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure as inputs and identify differences among nodes of the first calculation graph structure and nodes of the second calculation graph structure, the calculation engine being configured to generate a differential tax calculation graph structure comprising a hierarchical structure based at least in part upon the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure and indicating differences among nodes of the first calculation graph structure and nodes of the second calculation graph structure, an explanation engine in communication with the calculation engine, the user interface controller and the shared data store and configured to identify a pointer or tag associated with at least one functional node and associated function, identify a narrative in the shared data store based at least in part upon the pointer or tag, and generate a textual explanation for the one or more differences among the nodes regarding a change in tax liability in the first reporting period compared to the second reporting period based at least in part upon the identified narrative, the interface controller configured to receive the textual explanation and generate a user interface comprising the textual explanation that is presented through the display of the computing device, wherein different user interface presentations are invoked based on a type of the display used by the computing device; and a rule-based logic agent in communication with the shared data store, the rule-based logic agent being further configured to receive first runtime data from the shared data store, determine which questions of the computerized tax return preparation application that remain unanswered based at least in part upon the first runtime data and a completion graph data structure, generate a non-binding suggestion based at least in part upon the determined questions, and transmit the non-binding suggestion to the interface controller, the interface controller receiving the non-binding suggestion from the rule-based logic agent and presenting a question based on the non-binding suggestion to the user interface, tax logic determinations being executed independently of and before the interface controller receives the non-binding suggestion.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the second tax calculation graph structure differs from the first calculation graph structure based on an addition of one or more additional interconnecting functional nodes.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the explanation engine is further configured to generate the textual explanation of one or more differences as based at least in part upon the one or more additional interconnecting functional nodes.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the second tax calculation graph structure differs from the first calculation graph structure based on a deletion of one or more additional interconnecting functional nodes.
5. The computing system of claim 4, wherein the explanation engine is further configured to generate the textual explanation of one or more differences based at least in part upon the one or more deleted interconnecting functional nodes.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the second tax calculation graph structure differs from the first calculation graph structure based on different functions connecting similar nodes.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the first tax reporting period comprises a current tax year and the second tax reporting period comprises an immediately preceding tax year.
8. The computing system of claim 7, wherein the first tax calculation graph structure comprises estimates for the current tax year.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the first tax reporting period comprises a future tax year and the second tax reporting period comprises a current or past tax year.
10. The computing system of claim 9, the first tax calculation graph structure comprising data copied from data contained within the second tax calculation graph structure for the current or past tax year.
11. The computing system of claim 1, the first tax calculation graph structure comprising data manually entered by the user.
12. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the first tax calculation graph structure and the second tax calculation graph structure each comprises respective subgraphs of larger corresponding tax calculation graph structures.
13. The computing system of claim 12, each node of the first tax calculation graph structure and the second tax calculation graph structure comprising a common tax concept.
14. The computing system of claim 1, the textual explanation further comprising numerical information.
15. The computing system of claim 1, the explanation engine comprising a natural language generator executed by the processor and being further configured to generate a natural language textual explanation.
16. The computing system of claim 15, the user interface comprising the natural language textual explanation and a numerical tax calculation.
17. The computing system of claim 1, the user interface comprising a hyperlink within the textual explanation, wherein the hyperlink is selectable by the user manipulating an input element of the computing device and through the user interface to present additional information associated with the textual explanation.
18. The computing system of claim 17, the explanation engine being further configured to retrace at least one of the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure to identify a predecessor or upstream function node and associated function of at least one of the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure, wherein the additional information is based at least in part upon an additional narrative in the shared data store based at least in part upon a pointer or tag associated with the predecessor or upstream functional node.
19. The computing system of claim 17, wherein the explanation engine is further configured to determine the additional information associated with the textual explanation by retracing at least one of the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure.
20. The computing system of claim 19, wherein the explanation engine is further configured to execute an upstream or backwards retrace of at least one of the first calculation graph structure and the second calculation graph structure.
21. The computing system of claim 1, wherein different explanations are associated with the same functional node and associated function, and the explanation engine is further configured to select one explanation of the different explanations.
22. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the different explanations are associated with respective different types or editions of the computerized tax return preparation application.
23. The computing system of claim 22, wherein the explanation engine is further configured to unlock more detailed explanations to be included in the user interface in response to an upgrade from a first type or edition of the computerized tax return preparation application to a second type or edition of the computerized tax return preparation application.
24. The computing system of claim 1, the data structure comprising a table including respective rows and respective columns, wherein respective rules are defined by respective rows of the table and respective questions are defined by respective columns of the table.
25. The computing system of claim 24, wherein the interface controller is further configured to receive user input through the user interface and update the first runtime data stored in the shared data store to generate second runtime data stored in the shared data store.
26. The computing system of claim 25, wherein calculation engine is further configured to read the second user-specific data as the input and perform the plurality of tax calculation operations utilizing the tax calculation graph populated the second user-specific data and update the second runtime data stored in the shared data store based at least in part upon the plurality of tax calculation operations to generate third runtime data in the shared data store.
27. The computing system of claim 26, wherein the rule-based logic agent is further configured to read the third runtime data stored in the shared data store, determine which questions of the computerized tax return preparation application remain unanswered based at least in part upon the third runtime data and the data structure.
28. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the rule-based logic agent is further configured to eliminate at least one rule defined by at least one row of the decision table based at least in part upon the first runtime data to reduce a number of candidate questions to include in the non-binding suggestion for the interface controller.
</claims>
</document>
