<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/438,G10L15/18,G10L15/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
GILL, DAREN
KAHAN, ELIAV SAMUEL ZIMMERN
NEWELL, GREGORY
RAO, PRASHANT SIK
GURUSWAMY, MAHESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72241469
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Conversational recovery for voice user interface
</title>

<abstract>
A processing device executing a component of a conversational recovery system receives an intent data and a first entity data identified from user input data. The processing device determines that the first entity data is associated with first content associated with a first component. The processing device additionally receives a text data of the user input data. The processing device determines a word in the text data that matches a keyword associated with second content associated with a second component. The processing device ranks the first component and the second component. The processing device generates message data that comprises an inquiry with respect to choosing the first content or the second content.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving first text data representing a first utterance received by a client device; receiving first intent data associated with the first utterance; receiving first entity data associated with the first intent data; determining at least a first word, in the first text data, corresponds to a first keyword in a list of keywords; determining the first keyword is associated with second entity data; determining that the first entity data is associated with first content capable of being output by a first component; determining that the second entity data is associated with second content capable of being output by a second component; generating audio data representing synthesized speech requesting selection of either the first content or the second content; causing the audio data to be output by the client device; receiving second text data representing a second utterance received by the client device after outputting the audio data; determining that the second text data represents a selection of the first content; and causing the first component to output the first content.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a third component, keyword data comprising a second keyword and third entity data associated with the second keyword, wherein the third entity data is associated with third content capable of being output by the third component; adding the second keyword and the third entity data to the list of keywords; determining the first text data comprises at least one second word corresponding to the second keyword; and ranking the third component relative to the first component and the second component.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a user account identifier associated with the client device; determining first prior feedback data associated with the user account identifier and the first component; determining second prior feedback data associated with the user account identifier and the second component; based at least in part on the first prior feedback data and the second prior feedback data, determining a first selection ratio for the first component and a second selection ratio for the second component; and determining that the first selection ratio is higher than the second selection ratio.
4. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving first text data representing a natural language input received by a client device; receiving first intent data representing the natural language input; receiving first entity data associated with the first intent data; determining at least a first word, in the first text data, corresponds to a first keyword in a list of keywords; determining the first keyword is associated with second entity data; determining that the first entity data is associated with first content capable of being output by a first component; determining that the second entity data is associated with second content capable of being output by a second component; and generating first data requesting selection of either the first content or the second content.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving second text data representing a second natural language input received by the client device; determining that the second text data represents a selection of the second content; and causing the second component to output the second content.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: based at least in part on the at least a first word corresponding to the first keyword, determining a confidence score associated with the second entity data; and determining that the confidence score exceeds a threshold confidence score.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining a ranking rule based on at least one of the first entity data, the second entity data, or a user account associated with the client device; and determining that the ranking rule ranks the second component higher than the first component, wherein the first data requests a confirmation to output the second content.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining that the first intent data represents at least one of a) absence of an action to be performed on the first entity data or b) an indication that a component failed to implement.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: generating a search query comprising at least a portion of the first text data; sending the search query to a third component; receiving a search result from the third component, wherein the search result comprises third entity data associated with third content capable of being output by the third component; and ranking the third component relative to the first component and the second component.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining prior feedback data representing at least one previous selection of the first content instead of the second content; and ranking the first component and the second component based at least in part on the prior feedback data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving, from a third component, keyword data comprising a second keyword and third entity data associated with the second keyword, wherein the third entity data is associated with third content capable of being output by the third component; adding the second keyword and the third entity data to the list of keywords; determining the first text data comprises at least one second word corresponding to the second keyword; and ranking the third component relative to the first component and the second component.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining a first amount of content selection requests that have been sent to the client device; and determining the first amount of content selection requests is below a threshold amount of content selection requests, wherein the first data is generated based at least in part on the first amount of content selection requests being below the threshold amount of content selection requests.
13. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: receive first text data representing a natural language input received by a client device; receive first intent data representing the natural language input; receive first entity data associated with the first intent data, wherein the first entity data is associated with first content capable of being output by a first component; determine at least a first word, in the first text data, corresponds to a first keyword in a list of keywords; determine the first keyword is associated with second entity data, wherein the second entity data is associated with second content capable of being output by a second component; and generate first data requesting selection of either the first content or the second content.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive audio data representing a second natural language input; determine that the second natural language input selects the first content; and cause the first component to output the first content.
15. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine prior feedback data representing at least one previous selection of the first content instead of the second content; and rank the first component and the second component based at least in part on the prior feedback data.
16. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, from a third component, keyword data comprising a second keyword and third entity data associated with the second keyword, wherein the third entity data is associated with third content capable of being output by the third component; add the second keyword and the third entity data to the list of keywords; determine the first text data comprises at least one second word corresponding to the second keyword; and rank the third component relative to the first component and the second component.
17. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine a first amount of content selection requests that have been sent to the client device; and determine the first amount of content selection requests is below a threshold amount of content selection requests, wherein the first data is generated based at least in part on the first amount of content selection requests being below the threshold amount of content selection requests.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining the list of keywords comprises a second keyword that may be included in natural language inputs received by the client device; determining the second keyword has been represented in the list of keywords for at least a threshold amount of time; and based at least in part on the second keyword being represented in the list of keywords for at least the threshold amount of time, deleting the second keyword from the list of keywords.
19. The system of claim 13, further comprising instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine the list of keywords comprises a second keyword that may be included in natural language inputs received by the client device; determine the second keyword has been represented in the list of keywords for at least a threshold amount of time; and based at least in part on the second keyword being represented in the list of keywords for at least the threshold amount of time, delete the second keyword from the list of keywords.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the list of keywords comprises a second keyword that may be included in utterances received by the client device; determining the second keyword has been represented in the list of keywords for at least a threshold amount of time; and based at least in part on the second keyword being represented in the list of keywords for at least the threshold amount of time, deleting the second keyword from the list of keywords.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first text data is generated from speech recognition processing performed on audio data representing the first utterance.
</claims>
</document>
