<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/04,E21B44/06,E21B47/024,E21B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTIVE DRILLING TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CANTWELL, JOHN JEREMY
HO, AN BINH
WEIDEMAN, WILLIAM EDWARD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69586898
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and methods for uninterrupted drilling
</title>

<abstract>
During slide drilling, certain transient variances in differential pressure may indicate that a subsequent and temporary variance in a toolface angle error does not indicate that drilling should be interrupted. The transient variances in the differential pressure may be within a range of particular threshold pressures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A control system for controlling a drilling operation, the control system comprising: a database comprising a plurality of data relating to a plurality of drilling parameters, wherein the database is updated during drilling of a borehole; a processor coupled to the database; a memory accessible to the processor and storing instructions executable by the processor for: during slide drilling, detecting an increase to a first differential pressure (ΔP) that is greater than a first threshold pressure and less than a second threshold pressure; responsive to detecting the first ΔP, detecting a variance in a toolface angle error greater than a first threshold variance; responsive to detecting the variance of the toolface angle, detecting within a first threshold period, a reduction in the variance greater than the first threshold variance; and responsive to detecting the reduction in the variance, generating an output to a user indicating that the variance of the toolface angle is not associated with interrupting the slide drilling.
2. The control system of claim 1, wherein the instructions detecting the reduction in the variance further comprise instructions for detecting a decrease to a second ΔP that is less than the first threshold pressure.
3. The control system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of drilling parameters comprise at least one of: weight on bit, rate of penetration, differential pressure, mud flow rate, torque, and rate of oscillation.
4. The control system of claim 1, wherein the database further comprises information relating to equipment used for the drilling, and formation characteristics for one or more formations drilled, being drilled, or to be drilled.
5. The control system of claim 1, wherein detecting the increase to the first ΔP further comprises: determining that a top drive torque has not increased greater than a first threshold torque.
6. A method for controlling drilling operations, the method comprising: during slide drilling under control of a steering control system enabled to monitor a plurality of drilling parameters, detecting an increase to a first differential pressure (ΔP) that is greater than a first threshold pressure and less than a second threshold pressure; responsive to detecting the first ΔP, detecting a variance in a toolface angle error greater than a first threshold variance; responsive to detecting the variance of the toolface angle, detecting within a first threshold period, a reduction in the variance greater than the first threshold variance; and responsive to detecting the reduction in the variance, displaying, by the steering control system, an output to a user indicating that the variance of the toolface angle is not associated with interrupting the slide drilling.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the detecting the reduction in the variance further comprises detecting a decrease to a second ΔP that is less than the first threshold pressure.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of drilling parameters comprise at least one of: weight on bit, rate of penetration, differential pressure, mud flow rate, torque, and rate of oscillation.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the database further comprises information relating to equipment used for the drilling, and formation characteristics for one or more formations drilled, being drilled, or to be drilled.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein detecting the increase to the first ΔP further comprises: determining that a top drive torque has not increased greater than a first threshold torque.
11. A method for controlling drilling operations, the method comprising: (a) during drilling of a borehole, receiving, by a control system, a first differential pressure (ΔP) value; (b) during drilling of the borehole, receiving, by the control system, a second ΔP value; (c) determining, by the control system, a variance between the first ΔP value and the second ΔP value; (e) responsive to the variance between the first ΔP value and the second ΔP value, determining, by the control system, if a correction of one or more drilling operations is indicated; and (f) when the correction is indicated, sending, by the control system, one or more signals to initiate the correction of one or more drilling operations.
12. The method according to claim 11, wherein the determining if a correction of one or more drilling operations is indicated further comprises determining whether the variance between the first ΔP value and the second ΔP value exceeds a threshold for the variance.
13. The method according to claim 11, wherein the determining if a correction of one or more drilling operations is indicated further comprises determining whether the variance between the first ΔP value and the second ΔP value falls within an acceptable range for the variance.
14. The method according to claim 11, further comprising repeating steps (a)-(d) a plurality of times during drilling of the borehole.
15. The method according to claim 11, further comprising: during drilling of the borehole, receiving, by the control system, a first value associated with a toolface angle; determining, by the control system, if the first value associated with the toolface angle exceeds a first threshold for the toolface angle, and wherein the determining, by the control system, if a correction of one or more drilling operations is indicated, is responsive to the variance between the first ΔP value and the second ΔP value and to the determining if the first value associated with the toolface angle exceeds the threshold for the toolface angle.
16. The method according to claim 15, further comprising: receiving, by the control system, a second value associated with a toolface angle; determining, by the control system, a second variance between the first value associated with the toolface angle and the second value associated with the toolface angle; determining, by the control system, whether the second variance between the first value associated with the toolface angle and the second value associated with the toolface angle within a first threshold period is indicative of a correction of one or more drilling operations.
17. The method according to claim 16, wherein the correction of one or more drilling operations comprises at least one of: ceasing drilling; adjusting one or more drilling parameters, wherein the drilling parameters comprise at least one of: weight on bit, rate of penetration, differential pressure, mud flow rate, torque, and rate of oscillation.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein determining, by the control system, if the correction of one or more drilling operations is indicated further comprises determining, by the control system, whether a top drive torque value increase within a first time period exceeds a threshold value for the top drive torque.
</claims>
</document>
