<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/355,A63F13/69,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CARNAHAN, JEFFREY D.
HAMPTON, ANDREW C.
HILL, JEREMY M.
BLOHM, CHRISTOPHER M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65998127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed systems for delivering memory-efficient, customizable, and user-aware content
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed technology concerns methods, apparatus, and systems for delivering content in a distributed computing system. In particular, the disclosed technology concerns tools and techniques for selecting and delivering customizable and user-aware content in a memory-efficient manner. For example, embodiments of the disclosed technology use a centralized backend computing device to implement a system that communicates with one or more client computing devices (e.g., PCs, gaming consoles, mobile devices, and the like). The centralized backend computing device(s) can be configured to compute and transmit content that is adaptive and customizable.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory or storage device; and one or more processors, the one or more processors being configured to implement a dynamic digital rewards system by: inputting data from a remote client computer indicating a request to transition a digital reward pack from a closed state to an open state; selecting a reward for the digital reward pack from among two or more possible rewards using a weighted selection process in which a weight assigned to one or more of the possible rewards is dynamically determined in accordance with a set of one or more weighting rules that are applied after the data indicating the request is received; and outputting data to the remote client computer indicating the reward selected.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are located in a cloud computing system.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the remote client computer is a server configured to operate as a game host for facilitating the acquisition of the digital reward pack.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the remote client computer is a gaming console.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the request is initiated by a user, and wherein one or more of the weighting rules alter a likelihood that a respective one of the possible rewards will be awarded based at least in part on a current state of the user.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the request is initiated by a user, and wherein one or more of the weighting rules alter a likelihood that a respective one of the possible rewards will be awarded based at least in part on rewards that have already been awarded to the user.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the request is initiated by a current user, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to dynamically alter the weighting rules based at least in part on gameplay characteristics of two or more other users different from the current user.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the request is initiated by a current user, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to update the two or more possible rewards to include a reward that was unavailable at the time the digital reward pack was obtained.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the selecting the reward comprises: in a first selection procedure, selecting one reward pool from among multiple reward pools using a first weighted random selection process; and in a second selection procedure, selecting one or more rewards from the selected reward pool using a second weighted random selection process in which the weight assigned to one or more of the possible rewards is dynamically determined in accordance with the set of one or more weighting rules.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: input data indicating a request to identify digital reward packs held by a user; output data indicating the digital reward packs held by the user, including data indicating a state of the digital reward packs; and determine the digital reward packs held by the user by reconciling digital reward packs provided by a non-game-specific marketplace with reward packs purchased or earned via a game-specific interface.
11. A method, comprising: acquiring, by one or more computing devices, a plurality of instances of a digital rewards package, the digital rewards package comprising one or more reward rules that represent a reward to be granted; at a time subsequent to acquiring the plurality of instances, and responsive to a user selecting to reveal contents of a first instance of the digital rewards package, determining, by the one or more computing devices, a first reward for a first instance of the digital rewards package based on the one or more reward rules; and at a time subsequent to determining the first reward, and responsive to the user selecting to reveal contents of the second instance of the digital rewards package, determining, by the one or more computing devices, a second reward for a second instance of the digital rewards package based on the one or more rewards rules.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the first reward comprises: transmitting a request to a remote central server for the remote central server to determine the first reward for the first instance of the digital rewards package; and receiving data indicating the first reward based on the one or more reward rules from the remote central server.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the acquiring the plurality of instances of the digital rewards package comprises: transmitting a request to a remote central server for the remote central server to enumerate the plurality of instances of the digital rewards package; and receiving data enumerating the plurality of instances of the digital rewards package from the remote central server.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein determining the first reward comprises: randomly selecting the first reward from multiple available rewards, the selected first reward being a reward that was not created until the time subsequent to acquiring the plurality of instances.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining the respective reward for each of the first reward and the second request comprises: adjusting odds of being awarded one or more of multiple available rewards; and randomly selecting the respective reward from the multiple available rewards according to the adjusted odds.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein adjusting the odds is based, at least in part, on a current state of a player associated with the user or a current state of inventory held by the player associated with the user.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein adjusting the odds is based, at least in part, on data obtained from applying machine learning algorithms to gameplay statistics, reward inventories, or demographic data associated with multiple other users.
18. One or more memory or devices storing computer-executable instructions, which when executed by a computer cause the computer to: receive, from one or more remote clients, a request to reveal contents of a digital reward package, the digital reward package comprising one or more reward rules that represent a reward to be granted; determine a digital reward for the digital reward package based on the one or more reward rules and a current state of the one or more remote clients at a time of receiving the request to reveal contents of the digital reward package; and provide the determined digital reward to one or more remote clients according to a rewards framework that is modifiable without updating executable code stored at the one or more remote clients.
19. The one or more memory or devices of claim 18, wherein the dynamic digital rewards system is programmed to adaptively alter reward-selection likelihoods based at least in part on a current state of a player being awarded a reward.
20. The one or more memory or devices of claim 18, wherein the dynamic digital rewards system is programmed to adaptively alter reward-selection likelihoods based at least in part on data obtained from multiple ones of the remote clients.
</claims>
</document>
