<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/84,G01S5/02,G06F17/18,H04W4/02,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CLAIRVOYANT TECHNOLOGY
CLARIVOYANT TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREDERICK, THOMAS J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55078904
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
RFID tag tracking using phase likelihood
</title>

<abstract>
RFID tag tracking according to embodiments of the invention uses apparatus and methods for tracking backscatter RFID tags using the phase and receive signal strength of the tag signal. The tag tracking in some embodiments is accomplished with a computationally efficient recursive procedure to update a tag state estimate on each new response of the tag based on the previous tag state estimate and the measured phase of the tag signal. Some embodiments use a Monte Carlo simulation based on the previous tracking algorithm state and a statistical model of the forces acting on the tag. A system according to example embodiments of the invention can include a processor connected to a quadrature mixer. The processor is operable, for example through the use of firmware or software, to estimate a tag state of an RFID tag.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of iteratively estimating a tag state of an RFID tag wherein the tag state includes a position and a velocity in a coordinate system, the method comprising: recursively determining a measured phase of a tag signal at an RFID receiver by making a plurality of phase measurements; at each phase measurement, determining a plurality of possible actual phases of the tag signal from a prior estimate of the tag state; producing a channel phase model including a sum of periodically spaced distribution functions based on a modulo function of a fraction of an RF carrier wavelength; recursively updating a current tag state estimate to produce a plurality of updated tag states; mapping the plurality of updated tag states, each to one of the plurality of possible actual phases; using the measured phase as an assumed central location in a phase distribution in the channel phase model to produce a plurality of phase likelihoods; and using the plurality of phase likelihoods associated with the updated tag states to produce the current tag state estimate.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising producing the plurality of updated tag states using a Monte Carlo simulation.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein the Monte Carlo simulation uses a statistical model of forces acting on the RFID tag.
4. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: estimating a receive signal strength to produce a receive signal strength estimate; and using the receive signal strength estimate to adjust the channel phase model.
5. The method according to claim 4 further comprising adjusting a channel phase model variance according to a measurement signal-to-noise ratio model.
6. The method according to claim 4 further comprising adjusting a tag reflection coefficient estimate according to incident power level at the RFID tag as estimated from the receive signal strength estimate.
7. The method according to claim 1 further comprising calculating a phase compensation based on a calibrated phase shift due to an electrically conducted path of a transmit signal.
8. The method according to claim 1 further comprising calculating a phase compensation based on a calibrated or estimated reflection coefficient of the RFID tag as a function of incident power at the RFID tag.
9. The method according to claim 1 further comprising: resampling the plurality of updated tag states; and normalizing prior to producing the current tag state estimate.
10. The method according to claim 1 further comprising generating a first estimate of the tag state when the RFID tag enters an interrogation zone.
11. The method according to claim 1 wherein determining the measured phase further comprises splitting the signal into in-phase and quadrature phase components.
12. A radio frequency (RF) system to estimate a tag state of an RFID tag wherein the tag state includes a position and a velocity in a coordinate system, the system comprising: a local oscillator; a modulator connected to the local oscillator; an RF power amplifier connected to the modulator to send a transmit signal to cause a tag signal to be returned from the RFID tag; a receive path to receive a tag signal from the RFID tag, the receive path including a quadrature mixer; and a processor connected to the quadrature mixer, the processor operable to recursively determine a measured phase of the tag signal by making a plurality of phase measurements, determine a plurality of possible actual phases of the tag signal using a prior estimate of the tag state, produce a channel phase model including a sum of periodically spaced distribution functions based on a modulo function of a fraction of an RF carrier wavelength, and recursively update a current tag state estimate to produce a plurality of updated tag states, map the plurality of updated tag states, each to one of the plurality of possible actual phases, use the measured phase as an assumed central location in a phase distribution in the channel phase model to produce a plurality of phase likelihoods, and produce the current tag state estimate using the plurality of phase likelihoods.
13. The RF system of claim 12 further comprising a coupler connected to the quadrature mixer and the RF power amplifier.
14. The RF system of claim 12 wherein the processor is further operable to produce the plurality of updated tag states using a Monte Carlo simulation.
15. The RF system of claim 14 wherein the Monte Carlo simulation uses a statistical model of forces acting on the RFID tag.
16. The RF system according to claim 12 wherein the processor is further operable to estimate a receive signal strength to adjust the channel phase model.
17. The RF system according to claim 12 wherein the processor is further operable to calculate a phase compensation based on a calibrated phase shift due to an electrically conducted path of a transmit signal.
18. The RF system according to claim 12 wherein the processor is further operable to calculate a phase compensation based on a calibrated or estimated reflection coefficient of the RFID tag as a function of incident power at the RFID tag.
19. The RF system according to claim 12 wherein the processor is further operable to generate a first estimate of the tag state when the RFID tag enters an interrogation zone.
20. Apparatus for estimating a tag state of an RFID tag wherein the tag state includes a position and a velocity in a coordinate system, the apparatus comprising: means for recursively determining a measured phase of a tag signal at an RFID receiver; means for determining a plurality of possible actual phases of the tag signal from a prior estimate of the tag state; means for producing a plurality of updated tag states by recursively updating a current tag state estimate; means for mapping each of the plurality of updated tag states to one of the plurality of possible actual phases; means for producing a plurality of phase likelihoods using the measured phase as an assumed central location in a phase distribution; and means for producing the current tag state estimate using the plurality of phase likelihoods associated with the updated tag states.
21. The apparatus of claim 2 wherein the means for producing the plurality of updated tag states uses a Monte Carlo simulation.
</claims>
</document>
