<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/22,G06F16/2457,G06F16/951,G06F16/955,G06F16/958,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAKRABARTI, KAUSHIK
CHAUDHURI, SURAJIT
CHEN ZHIMIN
FINNIGAN, JAMES, P.
GANJAM, KRIS
NARASAYYA, VIVEK R.
ZORYN, KANSTANTSYN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55067734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Refining structured data indexes
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention extends to methods, systems, and computer program products for refining structured data indexes. Aspects of the invention include associating structured data, such as, for example, tables, with additional content. Additional content can include content outside the <table> and </table> tags of a web table. Indexes for structured data (e.g., table indexes) can be refined based on the additional content to improve the relevance of providing parts of the structured data (e.g., parts of the table) in search results.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a processor; and system memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions configured to cause the processor to: store an index improving relevance of providing one or more subsets of a table in search results; access an indication that a link to a previously indexed web page was selected by a user from among a plurality of links returned in query results responsive to a search query; access one or more tokens from at least one of the search query or anchor text in the link; and based on the one or more tokens and the indication that the link was selected, refine the index, wherein refining the index comprises: selecting a first subset of table content of the table from a plurality of different subsets of table content of the table; determining that the one or more tokens are relevant to describing the first subset of table content; and generating a refined index over the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content in the system memory by modifying the index to include an association between the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content; and store the refined index further improving the relevance of providing the one or more subsets of the table in the search results.
2. The system of claim 1, further comprising instructions configured to cause the processor to generate the refined index over one or more of: content external to the table; a portion of anchor text; or a portion of content in a knowledge base.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions configured to cause the processor to access the one or more tokens are further configured to cause the processor to access one or more words in a query.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions configured to cause the processor to refine the index comprises the instructions configured to cause the processor to generate a refined web table index.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the refined index further comprises annotating the one or more tokens of the search query or anchor text to the first subset of table content.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more tokens includes a plurality of tokens from the at least one of a search query or anchor text in the link, and wherein determining that the one or more tokens are relevant to describing the first subset of table content is based on a determination that the first subset of table content includes each token from the plurality of tokens from the at least one of a search query or anchor text in the link.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises accessing a click log including link selection information for a plurality of users.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises receiving, at the system, an indication that the link was selected by the user.
9. A method comprising: storing an index improving relevance of providing one or more subsets of a table in search results; accessing an indication that a link to a previously indexed web page was selected by a user from among a plurality of links returned in query results responsive to a search query; accessing one or more tokens from at least one of the search query or anchor text in the link; and based on the one or more tokens and the indication that the link was selected, refining the index, wherein refining the index comprises: selecting a first subset of table content of the table from a plurality of different subsets of table content of the table; determining that the one or more tokens are relevant to describing the first subset of table content; and generating a refined index over the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content by modifying the index to include an association between the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content; and storing the refined index further improving the relevance of providing the one or more subsets of the table in the search results.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the index improves the relevance of providing part of a web table in the search results.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating the refined index over another subset of table content from the table and one or more of: a page title, a heading, or a uniform resource location (URL).
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising generating the refined index over one or more of: a portion of incoming anchor text; a portion of content in a click log; a portion of content in a knowledge base; another subset of table content from the table and a caption derived from a web page; or text surrounding the table in a web page.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the index is an inverted index and wherein the refined index is a refined inverted index.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises accessing a click log including link selection information for a plurality of users.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises accessing a click log including link selection information for a plurality of users.
16. A computer program product comprising one or more computer storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that, when executed at a processor, cause a computer system to perform the following: store an index improving relevance of providing one or more subsets of a table in search results; access an indication that a link to a previously indexed web page was selected by a user from among a plurality of links returned in query results responsive to a search query; access one or more tokens from at least one of the search query or anchor text in the link; and based on the one or more tokens and the indication that the link was selected, refine the index, wherein refining the index comprises: selecting a first subset of table content of the table from a plurality of different subsets of table content of the table; determining that the one or more tokens are relevant to describing the first subset of table content; and generating a refined index over the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content by modifying the index to include an association between the one or more tokens and the first subset of table content; and store the refined index further improving the relevance of providing the one or more subsets of the table in the search results.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the refined index improves the relevance of providing part of a web table in the search results.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the computer system to access the one or more tokens are further configured to cause the computer system to access one or more words in a query.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises accessing a click log including link selection information for a plurality of users.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein accessing the indication that the link to the previously indexed web page was selected by the user comprises accessing a click log including link selection information for a plurality of users.
</claims>
</document>
