<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60N2/00,G06F16/21,G06F16/23,G06F16/2455,G07C5/08,G08B1/08,G08B25/00,G08B25/10,H04M3/51,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAVE, COLE
TOFTE, NATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61027324
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for reconstruction of a vehicular crash
</title>

<abstract>
A system for notifying emergency services of a vehicular crash may (i) receive sensor data of a vehicular crash from at least one mobile device associated with a user; (ii) generate a scenario model of the vehicular crash based upon the received sensor data; (iii) store the scenario model; and/or (iv) transmit a message to one or more emergency services based upon the scenario model. As a result, the speed and accuracy of deploying emergency services to the vehicular crash location is increased. The system may also utilize vehicle occupant positional data, and internal and external sensor data to detect potential imminent vehicle collisions, take corrective actions, automatically engage autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle features, and/or generate virtual reconstructions of the vehicle collision.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An accident monitoring server for identifying potential injuries of at least one occupant of a vehicle involved in a vehicular crash, the accident monitoring server being remote from the vehicle and including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the at least one processor is programmed to: store, within a database, vehicular crash scenarios based upon past vehicular crashes and sensor data associated with the vehicular crash scenarios; receive sensor data of the vehicular crash from at least one mobile device associated with the at least one occupant of the vehicle; compare the database of vehicular crash scenarios to the received sensor data; generate a scenario model of the vehicular crash based upon the comparison; store the scenario model; and determine at least one potential injury to the at least one occupant of the vehicle based upon the scenario model.
2. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to transmit a message to one or more emergency services based upon the scenario model.
3. The accident monitoring server of claim 2, wherein the one or more emergency services include at least one of a towing service, an emergency medical service provider, a police department, a fire department, and an emergency responder.
4. The accident monitoring server of claim 3, wherein the processor is further configured to select the one or more emergency services based upon the scenario model and a location of the vehicular crash.
5. The accident monitoring server of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to transmit the determined at least one potential injury to at least one of the one or more emergency services.
6. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to transmit a message to the at least one occupant to await emergency personnel.
7. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to receive confirmation of the at least one potential injury from the at least one mobile device.
8. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the at least one mobile device includes at least one of a mobile device associated with the vehicle involved in the vehicular crash, a cellular connected computer device, and an Internet connected computer device, wherein the at least one mobile device includes one or more sensors.
9. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is based upon a period of time prior to the vehicular crash and continuing through to a period of time after the vehicular crash.
10. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the sensor data includes at least one of a measurement of at least one of speed, direction rate of acceleration, rate of deceleration, location, position, orientation, and rotation of the vehicle, and wherein the sensor data further includes a measurement of one or more changes to at least one of speed, direction rate of acceleration, rate of deceleration, location, position, orientation, and rotation of the vehicle.
11. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the sensor data includes a number of occupants in the vehicle, seatbelt sensor data, a location of each of the occupants, a position of each of the occupants, and seat occupant weight sensor data.
12. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate a plurality of scenario models of the vehicular crash based upon the sensor data and the database of vehicular crash scenarios; determine a certainty of each of the plurality of scenario models; and generate the scenario model from the plurality of scenario models based upon the certainty associated with the scenario model.
13. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to update the database of vehicular crash scenarios based upon the stored scenario model.
14. The accident monitoring server of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a severity of the vehicular crash based upon the scenario model; and transmit the determined severity to at least one of the one or more emergency services.
15. A computer-based method for identifying potential injuries of at least one occupant of a vehicle involved in a vehicular crash, the method implemented on an accident monitoring ("AM") server including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the method comprising: storing, within a database, vehicular crash scenarios based upon past vehicular crashes and sensor data associated with the vehicular crash scenarios; receiving, at the AM server, sensor data of the vehicular crash from at least one mobile device associated with the at least one occupant of the vehicle; comparing the database of vehicular crash scenarios to the received sensor data; generating, by the AM server, a scenario model of the vehicular crash based upon the comparison; storing, in the memory, the scenario model; and determining at least one potential injury to the at least one occupant of the vehicle based upon the scenario model.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising transmitting a message to one or more emergency services based upon the scenario model.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the one or more emergency services include at least one of a towing service, an emergency medical service provider, a police department, a fire department, and an emergency responder.
18. The method of claim 16 further comprising selecting the one or more emergency services based upon the scenario model and a location of the vehicular crash.
19. The method of claim 16 further comprising receiving confirmation of the at least one potential injury from the at least one mobile device.
20. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by at least one processor in communication with at least one memory, the computer-executable instructions cause the processor to: store within a database vehicular crash scenarios based upon past vehicular crashes and sensor data associated with the vehicular crash scenarios; receive sensor data of a vehicular crash involving a vehicle from at least one mobile device associated with at least one occupant of the vehicle; compare the database of vehicular crash scenarios to the received sensor data; generate a scenario model of the vehicular crash based upon the comparison; store the scenario model; and determine at least one potential injury to the at least one occupant of the vehicle based upon the scenario model.
</claims>
</document>
