<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/30,A63F13/35,A63F13/79,A63F13/795,A63F13/87,A63F13/92,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
VACCARI ANDREA
GUANG, LEI
KARIMIAN, POOYA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63791367
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Game channels in messaging applications
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes receiving an indication a first user is accessing a game, wherein the first user has a first user identifier (ID); generating, based on the first user ID, a first hashed ID for the first user; providing the first hashed ID to a game bot associated with the game, the game bot being a software agent configured to act automatically on behalf of the game; receiving, from the game bot, a request to initiate a message thread between the game bot and the first user on a messaging application running on a first client system of the first user; and sending instructions for presenting the message thread on the messaging application, the message thread comprising one or more messages referencing in-game actions in the game.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising, by one or more computer systems: receiving, from a first client system of a first user of a messaging network, an indication the first user is accessing a game, wherein the first user has a first user identifier (ID); generating, based on the first user ID, a first hashed ID for the first user; providing the first hashed ID to a game bot associated with the game, the game bot being a software agent configured to act automatically on behalf of the game; receiving, from the game bot, a request to initiate a message thread between the game bot and the first user on a messaging application running on the first client system; and sending, by the game bot to the first client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a customized message inside the message thread on the messaging application, the customized message sent by the game bot inside the message thread comprising at least an interactive action button for performing an in-game action in the game that is displayed within the message thread.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the customized message sent by the game bot further comprises one or more of: an interactive game screenshot that, when interacted with by a user, shows a preview of a gameplay of the first user or one or more second users associated with the game; or a customizable text indicating a performance of the first user or the one or more second users in the game.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the game bot further sends one or more messages in the message thread, the one or more messages comprise one or more of: a welcome message welcoming the first user in the message thread in response to the first user playing the game for a first time; or performance metrics of the first user in the game.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the game bot further sends one or more messages in the message thread, the one or more messages comprise updates or releases in the game.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the game bot, one or more second users playing the game; and determining performance metrics of the one or more second users in the game, wherein: the customized message sent by the game bot comprises performance metrics of the one or more second users relative to the first user; and the interactive action button included in the customized message comprises an option for the first user to play against the one or more second users.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein identifying the one or more second users comprises: accessing a gamer graph associated with the messaging network, wherein the gamer graph comprises a plurality of nodes and a plurality of edges connecting the nodes, each of the edges between two of the nodes representing a single degree of separation between them, the nodes comprising: a first user node corresponding to the first user; one or more second user nodes corresponding to the one or more second users, respectively, and a plurality of game nodes corresponding to a plurality of games, respectively; wherein each edge connecting a user node to a game node represents an interaction by the user corresponding to the user node with the game corresponding to the game node, and wherein the game bot identifies the one or more second users based on edges connecting the first user node and the one or more second user nodes to the game node corresponding to the game.
7. The method of claim 5 further comprising: receiving, from the first client system of the first user, a request to play against a second user; sending, to a second client system of the second user, the request; and in response to the second user accepting the request, sending, to the second client system of the second user, instructions for presenting the message thread to the second user.
8. The method of claim 7 further comprising: generating a context ID identifying the message thread for messaging the first user and the second user; and providing the context ID to the game bot, wherein the game bot uses the context ID to send one or more messages to the first user and the second user in the message thread.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the game bot runs in the background of the game and analyzes in-game actions of the first user, and wherein the customized message sent by the game bot inside the message thread is based on the in-game actions.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the in-game actions include performance or activity of the first user inside the game.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the software agent is generated based on software logic and instructions added by a game developer to an application programming interface (API) associated with the messaging network.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the game bot send messages in the message thread at pre-defined time intervals.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the game bot send the messages up to a threshold limit.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the threshold limit is adjustable based on a measure of game affinity of the first user with respect to the game.
15. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a threshold level of gaming activity by the first user: sending, to the first client system of the first user, an interface of the messaging application comprising a games-tab element, wherein the games-tab element is selectable by the first user to request a games tab comprising a list of games, and wherein the first user access the game from the games tab.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the threshold level of gaming activity comprises the first user playing one or more games more than a threshold number of times within a predefined time period.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the threshold level of gaming activity comprises the first user viewing gameplay of one or more second users for one or more games more than a threshold number of times within a predefined time period.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising: sending, to the first client system, instructions for updating the games tab on the messaging application, wherein the games tab is updated to incorporate the message thread with the game.
19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to: receive, from a first client system of a first user of a messaging network, an indication the first user is accessing a game, wherein the first user has a first user identifier (ID); generate, based on the first user ID, a first hashed ID for the first user; provide the first hashed ID to a game bot associated with the game, the game bot being a software agent configured to act automatically on behalf of the game; receive, from the game bot, a request to initiate a message thread between the game bot and the first user on a messaging application running on the client system; and send, by the game bot to the first client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a customized message inside the message thread on the messaging application, the customized message sent by the game bot inside the message thread comprising at least an interactive action button for performing an in-game action in the game that is displayed within the message thread.
20. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a non-transitory memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors operable when executing the instructions to: receive, from a first client system of a first user of a messaging network, an indication the first user is accessing a game, wherein the first user has a first user identifier (ID); generate, based on the first user ID, a first hashed ID for the first user; provide the first hashed ID to a game bot associated with the game, the game bot being a software agent configured to act automatically on behalf of the game; receive, from the game bot, a request to initiate a message thread between the game bot and the first user on a messaging application running on the client system; and send, by the game bot to the first client system of the first user, instructions for presenting a customized message inside the message thread on the messaging application, the customized message sent by the game bot inside the message thread comprising at least an interactive action button for performing an in-game action in the game that is displayed within the message thread.
</claims>
</document>
