<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N1/39,G08B21/02,G08B25/00,G08B25/14,G08B27/00,H04W4/02,H04W4/16,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AVIVE SOLUTIONS
REVIVE SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREWS, GORDON MOSELEY P.
BEYER, RORY M.
BONGBERG, MICAH R.
JAFRI, SAMEER
PICCO, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69528398
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Responder network
</title>

<abstract>
A variety of methods, medical devices, responder network servers, emergency services interfaces and call center related processes are described that can help improve responder networks designed to get a medical device such as an automated external defibrillator and/or volunteer responders to the scene of a potential medical incident.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: automatically analyzing an emergency call center incident record to determine whether an incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an automated external defibrillator (AED) to a scene of the incident, wherein the incident record is a record created by an emergency call center operator or dispatcher as part of documenting a call received by the emergency call center and the incident record does not include any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance, wherein the automatic analysis of the incident record includes at least one of (a) searching the incident record for a selected keyword or combination of keywords that is indicative of the potential cardiac arrest or (b) searching one or more tags in the incident record for a selected tag, or combination of tags, that is indicative of the potential cardiac arrest; and automatically transmitting an electronic request for volunteer assistance to a responder network server when it is automatically determined that the incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an AED to the scene of the incident, wherein the request for volunteer assistance includes an indication of a location of the incident and does not identify any specific volunteer responder or AED to notify of the incident whereby the request for volunteer assistance is generated automatically without requiring any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance from the call center operator or dispatcher; and wherein the responder network server is configured to automatically (a) select and (b) send an emergency incident alert to, one or more specific AEDs or volunteer responders in response to reception of the request for volunteer assistance.
2. The method as recited in claim 1 further comprising, at the responder network server, selecting and transmitting an emergency alert to at least one of (i) one or more registered volunteer responders, and (ii) one or more AEDs, to encourage at least a first responder to take a first AED to the scene of the incident.
3. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the incident record includes one or more tags and the automatic analysis of the incident record includes the searching of the one or more tags for the selected tag, or combination of tags, that is indicative of a potential cardiac arrest.
4. The method as recited in claim 3 wherein it is determined that the incident is a potential cardiac arrest incident when the one or more tags includes a first tag that indicates that a victim is unconscious or unresponsive, and a second tag that indicates that a victim is not breathing or not breathing properly.
5. A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the automatic analysis of the incident record includes the searching the incident record for the selected keyword or combination of keywords that is indicative of the potential cardiac arrest.
6. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein it is determined that the incident is a potential cardiac arrest incident when the automatic analysis of the incident record indicates that a victim is (a) unconscious or unresponsive, and (b) not breathing or not breathing properly.
7. The A method as recited in claim 1 wherein it is determined that bringing an AED to the incident scene will not be useful to the incident when the automatic analysis of the incident record indicates that a defibrillator is already present at the scene of the incident.
8. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the automatic analysis is performed at an emergency call center by software executing on a computer aided dispatch system that created the incident record.
9. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the automatic analysis is performed by software executing on an emergency services interface that is separate from a call center at which the incident record was created, after receiving the incident record from the call center.
10. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the request for volunteer assistance includes sending an incident network notification message to a responder network server, the incident network notification message including a location of the potential cardiac arrest incident that is obtained by the automatic analysis of the incident record, wherein the responder network server, is configured to identify and notify at least one of (a) a set of defibrillators, and (b) a set of volunteer responders, of the potential cardiac arrest incident.
11. The method as recited in claim 1 wherein the automatic analysis is performed by software executing on a responder network server that is separate from a call center at which the incident record was created, after receiving the incident record from the call center.
12. The method as recited in claim 11 wherein the incident record received from the call center is a selected portion of a full call center incident record and does not include the entire contents of the full call center incident record.
13. The A method as recited in claim 1 wherein the incident alert causes at least one of the receiving AEDs to generate both: an audio alert; and a visual message that is displayed on a display screen associated with the receiving AED.
14. The method as recited in claim 13 wherein the visual message includes an indication that there is a nearby emergency that can use the receiving AED and a GUI widget that can be selected by a user to indicate the user's willingness to help.
15. The method as recited in claim 13 further comprising displaying a map that shows a location of the incident on the display screen.
16. An incident record analyzer having programmed instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable media, the programmed instructions being configured to: automatically analyze an electronic emergency call center incident record to determine whether an incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an automated external defibrillator (AED) to a scene of the incident, wherein the incident record is a record created by an emergency call center operator or dispatcher as part of documenting a call received by the emergency call center and the incident record does not include any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance, wherein the automatic analysis of the incident record includes at least one of (a) searching the incident record for a selected keyword or combination of keywords that is indicative of the potential cardiac arrest or (b) searching for one or more tags in the incident record for a selected tag, or combination of tags, that is indicative of the potential cardiac arrest; and automatically transmit an electronic request for volunteer assistance to a responder network server when it is determined that the incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an AED to the scene of the incident, wherein the request for volunteer assistance includes an indication of a location of the incident and does not identify any specific volunteer responder or AED to notify of the incident, whereby the incident record analyzer is configured to generate the electronic request for volunteer assistance without requiring any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance from the call center operator or dispatcher.
17. The incident record analyzer as recited in claim 16 further configured to extract an incident location from the incident record and include the incident location in the electronic request for volunteer assistance.
18. The incident record analyzer as recited in claim 16 wherein the incident record includes one or more tags and the incident record analyzer is configured to search the one or more tags for a selected tag, or combination of tags, that is indicative of a potential cardiac arrest.
19. The incident record analyzer as recited in claim 16 configured to search the incident record for a selected keyword or combination of keywords that is indicative of a potential cardiac arrest.
20. The incident record analyzer as recited in claim 16 configured to determine that the incident is a potential cardiac arrest incident when the automatic analysis of the incident record indicates that a victim is (a) unconscious or unresponsive, and (b) not breathing or not breathing properly.
21. A method comprising: automatically analyzing an emergency call center incident record to determine whether an incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an automated external defibrillator (AED) to a scene of the incident, wherein the incident record is a record created by an emergency call center operator or dispatcher as part of documenting a call received by the emergency call center and the incident record does not include any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance; and automatically transmitting an electronic request for volunteer assistance to a responder network server when it is automatically determined that the incident referred to in the incident record is a potential cardiac arrest incident for which it may be useful for a volunteer responder to bring an AED to the scene of the incident, wherein the request for volunteer assistance includes an indication of a location of the incident and does not identify any specific volunteer responder or AED to notify of the incident whereby the request for volunteer assistance is generated automatically without requiring any explicit request for AED or volunteer assistance from the call center operator or dispatcher; and wherein the responder network server is configured to automatically (a) select and (b) send an emergency incident alert to, one or more specific AEDs or volunteer responders in response to reception of the request for volunteer assistance; wherein the incident record includes a plurality of tags and the automatic analysis of the incident record includes searching the plurality of tags for a combination of tags, that together are indicative of a potential cardiac arrest and trigger the automatic generation of the electronic request; and wherein no single tag alone triggers the automatic generation of the electronic request for volunteer assistance.
</claims>
</document>
