<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/16,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAMBRICON TECHNOLOGIES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, TIANSHI
CHEN, YUNJI
LIU SHAOLI
ZHANG XIAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60160565
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and methods for matrix addition and subtraction
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects for matrix addition in neural network are described herein. The aspects may include a controller unit configured to receive a matrix-add-scalar instruction that includes an address of the first matrix and a scalar value. The aspects may further include a computation module configured to receive the first matrix from a storage device based on the address of the first matrix. The first matrix may include one or more first elements. The one or more first elements are arranged in accordance with a two-dimensional data structure. The computation module may be further configured to respectively add the scalar value to each of the one or more first elements of the first matrix in accordance with the matrix-add-scalar instruction to generate one or more second elements for a second matrix.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. An apparatus for matrix operations in a neural network, comprising: a controller circuit configured to receive a matrix-add-scalar instruction that includes an address of a first matrix, a size of the first matrix that indicates a count of one or more first elements in the first matrix, an address of a second matrix, and a scalar value; and a computation circuit configured to receive the first matrix from a storage device based on the address of the first matrix in response to the matrix-add-scalar instruction, wherein the one or more first elements are arranged in accordance with a two-dimensional data structure; and respectively add the scalar value to each of the one or more first elements of the first matrix in accordance with the matrix-add-scalar instruction to generate one or more second elements for the second matrix.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the computation circuit includes a data controller circuit configured to select a portion of the first elements.
3. The apparatus of claim 2, wherein the computation circuit includes one or more adders configured to respectively add the scalar value to each of the portion of the first elements.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, further comprising an instruction register configured to store the address of the first matrix, the size of the first matrix, the scalar value, and the address of the second matrix.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the controller circuit comprises an instruction obtaining circuit configured to obtain the matrix-add-scalar instruction from an instruction storage device.
6. The apparatus of claim 5, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a decoding circuit configured to decode the matrix-add-scalar instruction into one or more micro-instructions.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the controller circuit further comprises an instruction queue circuit configured to temporarily store the matrix-add-scalar instruction and one or more previously received instructions, and retrieve information corresponding to operation fields in the matrix-add-scalar instruction.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the controller circuit further comprises an instruction register configured to store the information corresponding to the operation fields in the matrix-add-scalar instruction.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a dependency processing circuit configured to determine whether the matrix-add-scalar instruction has a dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a storage queue circuit configured to store the matrix-add-scalar instruction while the dependency processing circuit is determining whether the matrix-add-scalar instruction has the dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
11. An apparatus for matrix operations in a neural network, comprising: a controller circuit configured to receive a matrix-subtract-scalar instruction that includes an address of a first matrix, a size of the first matrix that indicates a count of one or more first elements in the first matrix, an address of a second matrix, and a scalar value; and a computation circuit configured to receive the first matrix from a storage device based on the address of the first matrix in response to the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction, wherein the one or more first elements are arranged in accordance with a two-dimensional data structure; and respectively subtract the scalar value from each of the one or more first elements of the first matrix in accordance with the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction to generate one or more second elements for the second matrix.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the computation circuit includes a data controller circuit configured to select a portion of the first elements.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the computation circuit includes one or more adders configured to respectively subtract the scalar value from each of the portion of the first elements.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, further comprising an instruction register configured to store the address of the first matrix, the size of the first matrix, the scalar value, and the address of the second matrix.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the controller circuit comprises an instruction obtaining circuit configured to obtain the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction from an instruction storage device.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a decoding circuit configured to decode the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction into one or more micro-instructions.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the controller circuit further comprises an instruction queue circuit configured to temporarily store the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction and one or more previously received instructions, and retrieve information corresponding to operation fields in the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the controller circuit further comprises an instruction register configured to store the information corresponding to the operation fields in the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction.
19. The apparatus of claim 18, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a dependency processing circuit configured to determine whether the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction has a dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the controller circuit further comprises a storage queue circuit configured to store the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction while the dependency processing circuit is determining whether the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction has the dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
21. A method for matrix operations in a neural network, comprising: receiving, by a controller circuit, a matrix-add-scalar instruction that includes an address of a first matrix, a size of the first matrix that indicates a count of one or more first elements in the first matrix, an address of a second matrix, and a scalar value; receiving, by a computation circuit, the first matrix based on the address of the first matrix in response to the matrix-add-scalar instruction, wherein the one or more first elements are arranged in accordance with a two-dimensional data structure; and respectively adding, by the computation circuit in response to the matrix-add-scalar instruction, the scalar value to each of the one or more first elements of the first matrix to generate one or more second elements for the second matrix.
22. The method of claim 21, further comprising selecting, by a data controller circuit of the computation circuit, a portion of the first elements.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising respectively adding, by one or more adders of the computation circuit, the scalar value to each of the portion of the first elements.
24. The method of claim 21, further comprising an instruction register configured to store the address of the first matrix, an address of the scalar value and an address of the second matrix.
25. The method of claim 21, further comprising obtaining, by an instruction obtaining circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-add-scalar instruction from an instruction storage device.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising decoding, by a decoding circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-add-scalar instruction into one or more micro-instructions.
27. The method of claim 26, further comprising temporarily storing, by an instruction queue circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-add-scalar instruction and one or more previously received instructions, and retrieve information corresponding to operation fields in the matrix-add-scalar instruction.
28. The method of claim 27, further comprising storing, by an instruction register of the controller circuit, the information corresponding to the operation fields in the matrix-add-scalar instruction.
29. The method of claim 28, further comprising determining, by a dependency processing circuit of the controller circuit, whether the matrix-add-scalar instruction has a dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
30. The method of claim 29, further comprising storing, by a storage queue circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-add-scalar instruction while the dependency processing circuit is determining whether the matrix-add-scalar instruction has the dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
31. A method for matrix operations in a neural network, comprising: receiving, by a controller circuit, a matrix-subtract-scalar instruction that includes an address of a first matrix, a size of the first matrix that indicates a count of one or more first elements in the first matrix, an address of a second matrix, and a scalar value; receiving, by a computation circuit, the first matrix based on the address of the first matrix in response to the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction, wherein the one or more first elements are arranged in accordance with a two-dimensional data structure; and respectively subtracting, by the computation circuit in response to the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction, the scalar value from each of the one or more first elements of the first matrix to generate one or more second elements for the second matrix.
32. The method of claim 31, further comprising selecting, by a data controller circuit of the computation circuit, a portion of the first elements.
33. The method of claim 32, further comprising respectively subtracting, by one or more adders of the computation circuit, the scalar value from each of the portion of the first elements.
34. The method of claim 31, further comprising an instruction register configured to store the address of the first matrix, an address of the scalar value and an address of the second matrix.
35. The method of claim 31, further comprising obtaining, by an instruction obtaining circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction from an instruction storage device.
36. The method of claim 35, further comprising decoding, by a decoding circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction into one or more micro-instructions.
37. The method of claim 36, further comprising temporarily storing, by an instruction queue circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction and one or more previously received instructions, and retrieve information corresponding to operation fields in the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction.
38. The method of claim 37, further comprising storing, by an instruction register of the controller circuit, the information corresponding to the operation fields in the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction.
39. The method of claim 38, further comprising determining, by a dependency processing circuit of the controller circuit, whether the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction has a dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
40. The method of claim 39, further comprising storing, by a storage queue circuit of the controller circuit, the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction while the dependency processing circuit is determining whether the matrix-subtract-scalar instruction has the dependency relationship with the one or more previously received instructions.
</claims>
</document>
