<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/36,G06F15/173,G06F8/61,G06F9/44,G06F9/445,G06F9/455,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHUPATI, DHIRENDRA KUMAR
RAJASHEKARA, SHASH
MANSUKHANI, AMESH
HOPKINS, CHRISTOPHER R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67211951
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic deployment target control
</title>

<abstract>
A set of devices is inventoried to identify components on the device. Usage information is also identified, indicating a level of usage of the different components. The set of devices is dynamically divided into different collections and deployment control signals are generated to control deployment of an item, onto the devices, based upon the identified collections.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system, comprising: a processor; deployment functionality that performs a deployment operation to deploy a computing component; inventory detector logic that identifies inventory information corresponding to each device, of a plurality of different devices in a set of devices, the inventory information for a given device including an indication of applications installed on the given device; a usage detector configured to: detect usage information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the usage information for the given device being indicative of usage of the applications installed on the given device; and generate a usage metric, for each given device, indicative of a level of usage of each of the applications installed on the given device; a clustering mechanism that divides the plurality of different devices into clusters based on the inventory information and the usage metric corresponding to each of the plurality of different devices; and a cluster control signal generator that generates a cluster control signal based on a user-selected cluster to control the deployment functionality to perform the deployment operation on the devices in the user-selected cluster.
2. The computing system of claim 1, and further comprising: a collaboration detector configured to detect collaboration information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the collaboration information for the given device being indicative of other devices in the set of devices that the given device performs collaborative operations with.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the clustering mechanism is configured to divide the plurality of different devices into the set of clusters based on the collaboration information corresponding to each of the plurality of different devices.
4. The computing system of claim 3, and further comprising: device identifier logic configured to identify the plurality of devices in the set of devices.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the inventory detector logic is configured to access each of the devices in the set of devices to identify the inventory information.
6. The computing system of claim 2, wherein the collaboration detector is configured to access an organization content graph to identify the collaboration information.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the level of usage of each particular application, of the applications installed on the given device, comprises one or more of: a frequency of usage of the particular application, a recency of usage of the particular application, or a volume of usage of the particular application.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the usage detector is configured to generate, as the usage information for each given device, information indicative of different functionality that is used on the given device.
9. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the inventory detector logic is configured to identify, as a portion of the inventory information for each given device, add-ins installed on the given device.
10. The computing system of claim 1, and further comprising: a deployment performance metric generator configured to generate a deployment performance metric indicative of a deployment speed at which the deployment operation is performed on the devices in the user-selected cluster; and machine learning logic configured to perform machine learning based on the deployment performance metric to obtain a machine learning result and to modify the clustering mechanism based on the machine learning result.
11. A computer implemented method of controlling a deployment operation, the method comprising: identifying inventory information corresponding to each device, of a plurality of different devices in a set of devices, the inventory information for a given device, of the set of devices, including an indication of applications installed on the given device; detecting usage information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the usage information for the given device being indicative of usage of the applications installed on the given device; generating a usage metric, for each given device, indicative of a level of usage of each of the applications installed on the given device; dividing the plurality of different devices into clusters based on the inventory information and the usage metric corresponding to each of the plurality of different devices; and generating a cluster control signal based on a user-selected cluster to control deployment functionality to perform the deployment operation on the devices in the user-selected cluster.
12. The computer implemented method of claim 11, and further comprising: detecting collaboration information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the collaboration information for the given device being indicative of other devices in the set of devices that the given device performs collaborative operations with.
13. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein dividing the plurality of different devices into clusters comprises: dividing the plurality of different devices into the set of clusters based on the collaboration information corresponding to each of the plurality of different devices.
14. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein identifying inventory information comprises: accessing each of the devices in the set of devices to identify the inventory information.
15. The computer implemented method of claim 12, wherein detecting collaboration information comprises: accessing an organization content graph to identify the collaboration information.
16. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein detecting usage information comprises: generating a usage metric for each given device indicative of a level of usage of each of the applications installed on the given device and wherein dividing the plurality of different devices into clusters comprises dividing the plurality of different devices into clusters based on the usage metric.
17. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein detecting usage information comprises: generating, as the usage information for each given device, information indicative of different functionality that is used on the given device.
18. The computer implemented method of claim 11, wherein identifying inventory information comprises: identifying, as a portion of the inventory information for each given device, add-ins installed on the given device.
19. The computer implemented method of claim 11, and further comprising: generating a deployment performance metric indicative of a deployment speed at which the deployment operation is performed on the devices in the user-selected cluster; performing machine learning based on the deployment performance metric to obtain a machine learning result; and modifying the clustering mechanism based on the machine learning result.
20. A computing system, comprising: a processor; deployment functionality that performs a deployment operation to deploy a computing component; inventory detector logic that identifies inventory information corresponding to each device, of a plurality of different devices in a set of devices, the inventory information for a given device including an indication of applications installed on the given device; a usage detector configured to: detect usage information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the usage information for the given device being indicative of usage of the applications installed on the given device; and generate a usage metric, for each given device, indicative of a level of usage of each of the applications installed on the given device; a collaboration detector configured to detect collaboration information corresponding to each of the devices in the set of devices, the collaboration information for the given device being indicative of other devices in the set of devices that the given device performs collaborative operations with; a clustering mechanism that divides the plurality of different devices into clusters based on the inventory information, the usage metric, and the collaboration information corresponding to each of the plurality of different devices; and a cluster control signal generator that generates a cluster control signal based on a user-selected cluster to control the deployment functionality to perform the deployment operation on the devices in the user-selected cluster.
</claims>
</document>
