<document>

<filing_date>
2016-03-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/30,G06Q50/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROVI GUIDES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PETERSON, BRIAN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59961117
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for determining user recovery times to real-life event
</title>

<abstract>
A media guidance application may determine user recovery times to real-life events. For example, the media guidance application may track the length of time that a particular user takes to recover from various real-life events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining user recovery times to real-life events, the method comprising: retrieving first social media data indicative of a current real-life event of a user; parsing the first social media data to identify a keyword corresponding to the current real-life event; transmitting, via control circuitry, a first query based on the keyword to a database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events; identifying an event type corresponding to the keyword from the database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events based on a comparison of the keyword to the keywords corresponding to current real-life events; receiving a user request for a media asset; transmitting, via the control circuitry, a second query based on the media asset to a database listing event types corresponding to the media asset; identifying the media asset corresponds to the event type based on a comparison of the event type to the event types corresponding to the media asset; calculating a time period between the current real-life event and the receipt of the user request; updating a user profile of the user to indicate the time period corresponds to a recovery period for the type of event; retrieving second social media data indicative of a subsequent real-life event of the event type of the user; applying a user profile modification for a duration of the recovery period to the user profile based on the second social media data indicative of the subsequent real-life event of the event type of the user, wherein the user profile modification prevents a recommendation of a media asset which corresponds to the event type for the duration of the recovery period; and generating for display a media asset recommendation to the user that is based on the user profile modification, wherein the user profile modification prevents displaying of a media asset recommendation corresponding to the event type during the recovery period, and wherein the user profile modification allows displaying of the media asset recommendation corresponding to the event type after the recovery period.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the subsequent real-life event is of the event type; in response to determining the subsequent real-life event is of the event type, applying a user profile modification to the user profile based on the subsequent real-life event for the recovery period for the type of event.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: identifying a relationship strength of the event type and the keyword based on a relationship strength rating retrieved from the database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events based; and adjusting a weight of the user profile modification based on the relationship strength of the event type.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: determining whether the current real-life event is a reoccurring real-life event; and in response to determining that the current real-life event is the reoccurring real-life event, adjusting a weight of the user profile modification based on a frequency of the reoccurring real-life event.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the weight of the user profile modification is increased as the frequency of the reoccurring real-life event increases.
6. The method of claim 2, wherein the event type is a reduction of free time, and wherein the user profile modification causes a media asset with a shorter play length to be recommended over a media asset with a longer play length.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the event type is a reduction is schedule flexibility, and wherein the user profile modification causes an on-demand media asset to be recommended over a media asset available at a predetermined time.
8. The method of claim 2, wherein the event type is a reduction is schedule flexibility, and wherein the user profile modification causes a media asset available at a predetermined time to be automatically recorded.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein the user profile includes a first criterion and a second criterion for selecting media assets for presentation to the user, and wherein the first criterion corresponds to a first weight and the second criterion corresponds to a second weight.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein applying the user profile modification to the user profile of the user comprises: determining the user profile modification corresponds to increasing the first weight corresponding to the first criterion in the user profile; and increasing the first weight corresponding to the first criterion in the user profile.
11. A system for determining user recovery times to real-life events, the system comprising: storage circuitry configured to store a database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events; and control circuitry configured to: retrieve first social media data indicative of a current real-life event of a user; parse the first social media data to identify a keyword corresponding to the current real-life event; transmitting a first query based on the keyword to a database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events; identify an event type corresponding to the keyword from the database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events based on a comparison of the keyword to the keywords corresponding to current real-life events; receive a user request for a media asset; transmit a second query based on the media asset to a database listing event types corresponding to the media asset; identify the media asset corresponds to the event type based on a comparison of the event type to the event types corresponding to the media asset; calculate a time period between the current real-life event and the receipt of the user request; update a user profile of the user to indicate the time period corresponds to a recovery period for the type of event; retrieve second social media data indicative of a subsequent real-life event of the event type of the user; apply a user profile modification for a duration of the recovery period to the user profile based on the second social media data indicative of the subsequent real-life event of the event type of the user, wherein the user profile modification prevents a recommendation of a media asset which corresponds to the event type for the duration of the recovery period; and generate for display a media asset recommendation to the user that is based on the user profile modification, wherein the user profile modification prevents displaying a media asset recommendation corresponding to the event type during the recovery period, and wherein the user profile modification allows displaying a media asset recommendation corresponding to the event type after the duration of the recovery period.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine the subsequent real-life event is of the event type; in response to determining the subsequent real-life event is of the event type, apply a user profile modification to the user profile based on the subsequent real-life event for the recovery period for the type of event.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: identify a relationship strength of the event type and the keyword based on a relationship strength rating retrieved from the database listing event types associated with keywords corresponding to current real-life events based; and adjust a weight of the user profile modification based on the relationship strength of the event type.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the control circuitry is further configured to: determine whether the current real-life event is a reoccurring real-life event; and in response to determining that the current real-life event is the reoccurring real-life event, adjust a weight of the user profile modification based on a frequency of the reoccurring real-life event.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the weight of the user profile modification is increased as the frequency of the reoccurring real-life event increases.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the event type is a reduction of free time, and wherein the user profile modification causes a media asset with a shorter play length to be recommended over a media asset with a longer play length.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the event type is a reduction is schedule flexibility, and wherein the user profile modification causes an on-demand media asset to be recommended over a media asset available at a predetermined time.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the event type is a reduction is schedule flexibility, and wherein the user profile modification causes a media asset available at a predetermined time to be automatically recorded.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the user profile includes a first criterion and a second criterion for selecting media assets for presentation to the user, and wherein the first criterion corresponds to a first weight and the second criterion corresponds to a second weight.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the control circuitry configured to apply the user profile modification to the user profile of the user is further configured to: determine the user profile modification corresponds to increasing the first weight corresponding to the first criterion in the user profile; and increase the first weight corresponding to the first criterion in the user profile.
</claims>
</document>
