<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G10L15/06,G10L15/08,G10L15/16,G10L15/19
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
TOYOTA TECHNOLOGICAL INSTITUTE AT CHICAGO
</assignee>

<inventors>
PICHENY, MICHAEL
AUDHKHASI, KARTIK
LIVESCU, KAREN
SETTLE, SHANE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71836207
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Recognition of out-of-vocabulary in direct acoustics-to-word speech recognition using acoustic word embedding
</title>

<abstract>
A method (and structure and computer product) for learning Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) words in an Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system includes using an Acoustic Word Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AWE RNN) to receive a character sequence for a new OOV word for the ASR system, the RNN providing an Acoustic Word Embedding (AWE) vector as an output thereof. The AWE vector output from the AWE RNN is provided as an input into an Acoustic Word Embedding-to-Acoustic-to-Word Neural Network (AWE→A2W NN) trained to provide an OOV word weight value from the AWE vector. The OOV word weight is inserted into a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) word embeddings used by the ASR system to output recognized words from an input of speech acoustic features, wherein the OOV word weight is inserted into the A2W word embeddings list relative to existing weights in the A2W word embeddings list.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for learning Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) words in an Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system, the method comprising: using an Acoustic Word Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AWE RNN) to receive a character sequence for a new OOV word for the ASR system, the RNN providing an Acoustic Word Embedding (AWE) vector as an output thereof; providing the AWE vector output from the AWE RNN as an input into an Acoustic Word Embedding-to-Acoustic-to-Word Neural Network (AWE→A2W NN) trained to provide an OOV word weight value from the AWE vector; and inserting the OOV word weight into a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) word embeddings used by the ASR system to output recognized words from an input of speech acoustic features, wherein the OOV word weight is inserted into the A2W word embeddings list relative to existing weights in the A2W word embeddings list.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the AWE RNN is initially trained as an overall subnetwork using character sequences of In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein the initial training further involves an Acoustic Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AE RNN) that receives an acoustic sequence correspondingly to each character sequence of an IV word used during training, wherein outputs of the AWE RNN and AE RNN are passed into a contrastive loss function, and wherein the AWE RNN and AWE→A2W NN are trained using a backpropagation algorithm to train weights of the AWE RNN, weights of the AE RNN, and weights of the AWE→A2W NN to minimize the contrastive loss function.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein, subsequent to the initial training of the overall subnetwork, the AE RNN is not used for normal operation of the ASR system and only the AWE RNN is used for a subsequent introduction of OOV words into the ASR system.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the ASR system further comprises an Acoustic-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN) that receives speech acoustic features as an input therein and an output of the A2W RNN is compared to embeddings of the A2W word embeddings listing using a dot product, and wherein, during a normal operation mode of the ASR system in which recognized words are output by the ASR system in response to speech acoustic features from an acoustic input into the ASR system, a word from the A2W word embeddings listing having a highest comparison result is provided as an output of the ASR system as a recognized word for the input speech acoustic features.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein an overall subnetwork including the A2W RNN is trained using In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein speech acoustic features of an IV word and a word sequence corresponding to that IV word are provided into a loss function, and wherein a backpropagation algorithm updates weights of the A2W RNN in order to minimize this loss function and to provide the A2W word embeddings listing.
6. The method of claim 1, as implemented in a cloud service.
7. A method for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), the method comprising: receiving a character sequence for an Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) word into an Acoustic Word Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AWE RNN) of an ASR system, as a mechanism to receive a character sequence for a new OOV word for the ASR system, the AWE RNN providing an Acoustic Word Embedding (AWE) vector as an output thereof; providing the AWE vector output from the AWE RNN as an input into an Acoustic Word Embedding-to-Acoustic-to-Word Neural Network (AWE→A2W NN) trained to provide an OOV word weight value from the AWE vector; and inserting the OOV word weight into a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) word embeddings used by the ASR system to output recognized words from an input of speech acoustic features, wherein the OOV word weight is inserted into the A2W word embeddings list relative to existing weights in the A2W word embeddings list.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the AWE RNN is initially trained as an overall subnetwork using character sequences of In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein the initial training further involves an Acoustic Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AE RNN) that receives an acoustic sequence correspondingly to each character sequence of an IV word used during training, wherein outputs of the AWE RNN and AE RNN are passed into a contrastive loss function, and wherein the AWE RNN and AWE→A2W NN are trained using a backpropagation algorithm to train weights of the AWE RNN, weights of the AE RNN, and weights of the AWE→A2W NN to minimize the contrastive loss function.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein, subsequent to the initial training of the overall subnetwork, the AE RNN is not used for normal operation of the ASR system and only the AWE RNN is used for a subsequent introduction of OOV words into the ASR system.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the ASR system further comprises an Acoustic-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN) that receives speech acoustic features as an input therein and an output of the A2W RNN is compared to embeddings of the A2W word embeddings listing using a dot product, and wherein, during a normal operation mode of the ASR system in which recognized words are output by the ASR system in response to speech acoustic features from an acoustic input into the ASR system, a word from the A2W word embeddings listing having a highest comparison result is provided as an output of the ASR system as a recognized word for the input speech acoustic features.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein an overall subnetwork including the A2W RNN is trained using In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein speech acoustic features of an IV word and a word sequence corresponding to that IV word are provided into a loss function, and wherein a backpropagation algorithm updates weights of the A2W RNN in order to minimize this loss function and to provide the A2W word embeddings listing.
12. The method of claim 7, as implemented in a cloud service.
13. A method for Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR), the method comprising: initially training an overall subnetwork comprising an Acoustic-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN), the A2W RNN receiving In-Vocabulary (IV) words for the initial training, the initial training using IV words resulting in a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) Word Embeddings stored in a memory of an ASR system performing the ASR processing; receiving an Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) word as a character sequence into an Acoustic Word Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AWE RNN), as a mechanism to receive a character sequence for a new OOV word for the ASR system, the AWE RNN providing an Acoustic Word Embedding (AWE) vector as an output thereof; providing the AWE vector output from the AWE RNN as an input into an Acoustic Word Embedding-to-Acoustic-to-Word Neural Network (AWE→A2W NN) trained to provide an OOV word weight value from the AWE vector; and inserting the OOV word weight into a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) word embeddings used by the ASR system to output recognized words from an input of speech acoustic features, wherein the OOV word weight is inserted into the A2W word embeddings list relative to existing weights in the A2W word embeddings list.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the AWE RNN is initially trained as an overall subnetwork using character sequences of In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein the initial training further involves an Acoustic Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AE RNN) that receives an acoustic sequence correspondingly to each character sequence of an IV word used during training, wherein outputs of the AWE RNN and AE RNN are passed into a contrastive loss function, and wherein the AWE RNN and AWE→A2W NN are trained using a backpropagation algorithm to train weights of the AWE RNN, weights of the AE RNN, and weights of the AWE→A2W NN to minimize the contrastive loss function.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein, subsequent to the initial training of the overall subnetwork, the AE RNN is not used for normal operation of the ASR system and only the AWE RNN is used for a subsequent introduction of OOV words into the ASR system.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the ASR system further comprises an Acoustic-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN) that receives speech acoustic features as an input therein and an output of the A2W RNN is compared to embeddings of the A2W word embeddings listing using a dot product, and wherein, during a normal operation mode of the ASR system in which recognized words are output by the ASR system in response to speech acoustic features from an acoustic input into the ASR system, a word from the A2W word embeddings listing having a highest comparison result is provided as an output of the ASR system as a recognized word for the input speech acoustic features.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein an overall subnetwork including the A2W RNN is trained using In-Vocabulary (IV) words, wherein speech acoustic features of an IV word and a word sequence corresponding to that IV word are provided into a loss function, and wherein a backpropagation algorithm updates weights of the A2W RNN in order to minimize this loss function and to provide the A2W word embeddings listing.
18. The method of claim 13, as implemented in a cloud service.
19. A method for training an Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system, the method comprising: receiving an acoustic sequence for each In-Vocabulary (IV) word used to initially train the ASR system; concurrently receiving a word sequence corresponding to each IV word; and preparing a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) Word Embeddings of the IV words, wherein the initial training uses a discriminative loss function, the discriminative loss function forcing, for each IV word in the listing of A2W word embeddings, the acoustic embedding for that IV word to be close to its text embedding in the listing.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising using a backpropagation algorithm to update weights of an Acoustic-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN) that receives speech acoustic features of the acoustic sequence, wherein the weight updating minimizes this discriminative loss function during the training.
21. The method of claim 20, further comprising: providing an input for entry of a character sequence of IV word into an Acoustic Word Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AWE RNN); providing the acoustic sequence for each IV word into an Acoustic Embedding Recurrent Neural Network (AE RNN); providing outputs of the AWE RNN and the AE RNN into a contrastive loss function; using a backpropagation algorithm and the contrastive loss function to train weights of the AWE RNN and weights of the AE RNN using IV words; and using the trained AWE RNN for receiving character sequences of Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) words as a user input for new OOV words into the ASR system to add OOV words to the A2W Word Embeddings listing.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the AE RNN is not longer considered after the weights of the AWE RNN are trained, so that only outputs of the AWE RNN are considered for an entry of an OOV word.
23. The method of claim 19, further comprising: providing an input for a user to input a character sequence for an Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) word; calculating an AWE vector for the OOV word; determining a weight factor for the OOV word from the AWE vector; and adding the OOV to the A2W Word Embeddings listing based on the determined weight factor.
24. An Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) system, comprising: a processor in a computer system; and one or more memory devices accessible to the processor, wherein at least one memory of the at least one memory device of the one or more memory devices stores a set of machine-readable instructions to configure the computer system to function as the ASR system, the ASR system comprising an Acoustics-to-Word Recurrent Neural Network (A2W RNN), as implemented by a processor on a computer system, the A2W RNN configured to receive speech acoustic features of words to be automatically recognized, the A2W RNN providing an acoustic embedding of the speech acoustic features of input words; and an Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) Word Embeddings list storing a listing of recognized words, wherein the ASR is configured to select a word from the A2W Word Embeddings list for output of the ASR as a recognized word by selecting a word from the A2W Word Embedding list that most closely matches an output acoustic embedding of the A2W RNN for input speech acoustic features, and wherein the ASR is initially trained by: receiving an acoustic sequence for each In-Vocabulary (IV) word used to initially train the ASR system; concurrently receiving a word sequence corresponding to each IV word; and preparing a listing of Acoustic-to-Word (A2W) word embeddings of the IV words, wherein the initial training uses a discriminative loss function, the discriminative loss function forcing, for each IV word in the listing of A2W word embeddings, the acoustic embedding for that IV word to be close to its text embedding in the listing.
25. The ASR system of claim 24, further comprising an Acoustic-Word-Embedding Neural Network (AWE NN) configured to receive a character sequence of an Out-of-Vocabulary (OOV) word, the AWE NN providing an AWE vector from the input character sequence, which permits a weight to be calculated by which the OOV word can be entered into the A2W Word Embeddings listing of the ASR relative to weights of other words in the listing.
</claims>
</document>
