<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F16/332,G06F17/30,G06Q40/00,G06Q40/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BYRON, DONNA K.
CHANG, DUKE C.
LEBLANC, LEANNE N.
PIKOVSKY, ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53400535
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Modeling asset transfer flow relationships discovered in unstructured data
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanisms are provided for performing an analysis of content based on a flow of property between entities. The mechanisms analyze a corpus of unstructured documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities. The mechanisms generate an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities. The mechanisms input the asset transfer flow model into an analysis engine for use in analyzing content. The mechanisms analyze the content using the asset transfer flow model to generate results of the analysis and output the results of the analysis based on the asset transfer flow model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system comprising a processor and a memory, for performing an analysis of content based on a flow of property between entities, comprising: performing, by the data processing system, analysis of a corpus of unstructured electronic documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities in unstructured natural language content of the unstructured electronic documents, wherein asset flow relationships indicate a flow of an asset from a first entity to at least one second entity and a type of flow of the asset from the first entity to the at least one second entity; generating, by the data processing system, an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities; inputting, by the data processing system, the asset transfer flow model into an analysis engine for use in analyzing electronic content; analyzing, by the analysis engine, the electronic content using the asset transfer flow model to generate results of the analysis; and outputting, by the analysis engine, the results of the analysis based on the asset transfer flow model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the asset is one of monetary funds or a legal right.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis engine is a Question and Answer system, and wherein analyzing the content using the asset transfer flow model comprises: receiving an input question from a source system; analyzing the input question using the asset transfer flow model to identify one or more queries to be applied to a corpus of documents; and generating one or more candidate answers to the input question based on the one or more queries applied to the corpus of documents.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the analysis engine is a Question and Answer (QA) system, and wherein analyzing the content using the asset transfer flow model comprises at least one of generating, in a question decomposition stage of a QA system pipeline of the QA system, queries to be applied to the corpus based on the asset transfer flow model or evaluating, in a hypothesis and evidence scoring stage of the QA system pipeline, candidate answers returned by a hypothesis generation stage of the QA system pipeline.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the asset transfer flow model comprises, for each asset transfer flow relationship between entities, a tuple comprising at least three arguments, and wherein the at least three arguments comprise a first argument specifying an origin entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, a second argument specifying a destination entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, and a third argument specifying an asset transfer type.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the asset transfer flow model is a directed acyclic graph where nodes of the directed acyclic graph represent entities and edges in the directed acyclic graph represent a transfer of an asset from a source entity to a destination entity.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein performing analysis of the corpus of unstructured documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities comprises performing at least one of part-whole relationship analysis or analysis of functional dependencies in tabular data on at least one unstructured document in the corpus.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities comprises: generating containment relations and semantic role restrictions from the one or more asset transfer flow relationships; and generalizing the containment relations and semantic role restrictions to not be tied to specific entities, thereby generating relational rules of the asset transfer flow model.
9. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a data processing system, causes the data processing system to: perform analysis of a corpus of unstructured electronic documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities in unstructured natural language content of the unstructured electronic documents, wherein asset flow relationships indicate a flow of an asset from a first entity to at least one second entity and a type of flow of the asset from the first entity to the at least one second entity; generate an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities; input the asset transfer flow model into an analysis engine for use in analyzing electronic content; analyze, by the analysis engine, the electronic content using the asset transfer flow model to generate results of the analysis; and output, by the analysis engine, the results of the analysis based on the asset transfer flow model.
10. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the asset is one of monetary funds or a legal right.
11. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the analysis engine is a Question and Answer system, and wherein the computer program product further causes the data processing system to analyze the content using the asset transfer flow model at least by: receiving an input question from a source system; analyzing the input question using the asset transfer flow model to identify one or more queries to be applied to a corpus of documents; and generating one or more candidate answers to the input question based on the one or more queries applied to the corpus of documents.
12. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the analysis engine is a Question and Answer (QA) system, and wherein the computer program product further causes the data processing system to analyze the content using the asset transfer flow model by at least one of generating, in a question decomposition stage of a QA system pipeline of the QA system, queries to be applied to the corpus based on the asset transfer flow model or evaluating, in a hypothesis and evidence scoring stage of the QA system pipeline, candidate answers returned by a hypothesis generation stage of the QA system pipeline.
13. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the asset transfer flow model comprises, for each asset transfer flow relationship between entities, a tuple comprising at least three arguments, and wherein the at least three arguments comprise a first argument specifying an origin entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, a second argument specifying a destination entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, and a third argument specifying an asset transfer type.
14. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the asset transfer flow model is a directed acyclic graph where nodes of the directed acyclic graph represent entities and edges in the directed acyclic graph represent a transfer of an asset from a source entity to a destination entity.
15. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer program product further causes the data processing system to perform analysis of the corpus of unstructured documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities at least by performing at least one of part-whole relationship analysis or analysis of functional dependencies in tabular data on at least one unstructured document in the corpus.
16. The computer program product of claim 9, wherein the computer program product further causes the data processing system to generate an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities at least by: generating containment relations and semantic role restrictions from the one or more asset transfer flow relationships; and generalizing the containment relations and semantic role restrictions to not be tied to specific entities, thereby generating relational rules of the asset transfer flow model.
17. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: perform analysis of a corpus of unstructured electronic documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities in unstructured natural language content of the unstructured electronic documents, wherein asset flow relationships indicate a flow of an asset from a first entity to at least one second entity and a type of flow of the asset from the first entity to the at least one second entity; generate an asset transfer flow model defining a flow of an asset between entities based on the one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities; input the asset transfer flow model into an analysis engine for use in analyzing electronic content; analyze, by the analysis engine, the electronic content using the asset transfer flow model to generate results of the analysis; and output, by the analysis engine, the results of the analysis based on the asset transfer flow model.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the analysis engine is a Question and Answer system, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to analyze the content using the asset transfer flow model at least by: receiving an input question from a source system; analyzing the input question using the asset transfer flow model to identify one or more queries to be applied to a corpus of documents; and generating one or more candidate answers to the input question based on the one or more queries applied to the corpus of documents.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the asset transfer flow model comprises, for each asset transfer flow relationship between entities, a tuple comprising at least three arguments, and wherein the at least three arguments comprise a first argument specifying an origin entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, a second argument specifying a destination entity for the asset transfer flow relationship, and a third argument specifying an asset transfer type.
20. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to perform analysis of the corpus of unstructured documents to identify one or more asset transfer flow relationships between entities at least by performing at least one of part-whole relationship analysis or analysis of functional dependencies in tabular data on at least one unstructured document in the corpus.
</claims>
</document>
