<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,H04N21/235,H04N21/431,H04N21/435,H04N21/472,H04N21/4725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRIAND, MANUEL
GOPALAKRISHNAN, VIJAY
HAN BO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68692635
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Navigation for 360-degree video streaming
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method including obtaining media content and an identification of a plurality of points of interest in the media content, receiving a request from a user to view the media content, obtaining information about the user, identifying one or more highlight points based on the information about the user, presenting the media content to the user, and monitoring the user's consumption of the content, determining a field of view of the highlight point, and presenting a guide indicator in the field of view of the user to provide information about the highlight point. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a processing system having a processor, media content, wherein the media content is a 360-degree video, three-dimensional video or panoramic video; analyzing, by the processing system, historical field of views of previous users to discern a plurality of points of interest in the media content, wherein the analyzing tracks each point of interest in the plurality of points of interest that has been most frequently viewed by the previous users; receiving, by the processing system, a request from equipment of a user to view the media content; obtaining, by the processing system, information about the user; identifying, by the processing system, a highlight point that will be presented at a future time in the media content by determining which of the plurality of points of interest in the media content would be of interest to the user based on the information about the user, wherein the highlight point is included in points of interest that were viewed by those previous users who share similar demographics with the user; presenting, by the processing system, the media content to the user; monitoring, by the processing system, a field of view of the user; determining, by the processing system, whether the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user; overlaying, by the processing system, a guide indicator atop the field of view of the user responsive to determining that the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user, wherein the guide indicator provides information about the highlight point, wherein the guide indicator is positioned to indicate a direction for the user to turn to align the field of view of the user with the field of view of the highlight point, and wherein the information displays an amount of time until the future time that the highlight point will be presented; and providing, by the processing system, a field of view comprising the highlight point from the media content regardless of the field of view of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the guide indicator presents the field of view containing the highlight point of the media content, thereby showing the highlight point to the user regardless of the field of view of the user.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the guide indicator includes a textual description of the highlight point.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the guide indicator is presented before the highlight point occurs in the media content.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein no overlay is presented responsive to determining that the highlight point is inside the field of view of the user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the analyzing of the media content includes reviewing previous fields of view of the previous users.
7. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: obtaining media content; receiving a request from equipment of a user to view the media content; obtaining information about the user; identifying a highlight point that will be presented at a future time in the media content that would be of interest to the user based on the information about the user, wherein the highlight point is included in points of interest that were frequently viewed by previous users sharing similar demographics with the user; presenting the media content to the equipment of the user; monitoring a field of view of the user; determining whether the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user; presenting a guide indicator in the field of view of the user responsive to determining that the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user, wherein the guide indicator provides information about the highlight point, wherein the guide indicator is positioned to indicate a direction for the user to turn to align the field of view of the user with the field of view of the highlight point, and wherein the information displays an amount of time until the future time that the highlight point will be presented; and presenting a field of view comprising the highlight point from the media content regardless of the field of view of the user.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the guide indicator presents the field of view containing the highlight point of the media content, thereby showing the highlight point to the user regardless of the field of view of the user.
9. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the guide indicator includes a textual description of the highlight point.
10. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the guide indicator is presented before the highlight point occurs in the media content.
11. The apparatus of claim 7, the operations further including analyzing the media content based on the field of view of the user.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the analyzing the media content includes reviewing previous fields of view of previous users.
13. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the processor comprises a plurality of processors in a distributed computing environment.
14. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: obtaining media content; analyzing the media content to discern a plurality of points of interest in the media content based on previous user experiences with the media content; receiving a request from equipment of a user to view the media content; obtaining information about the user; identifying a highlight point that will be presented at a future time in the media content by determining which of the plurality of points of interest in the media content would be of interest to the user based on the information about the user, wherein the highlight point is included in points of interest that were frequently viewed by previous users sharing similar demographics with the user; presenting the media content to the equipment of the user; monitoring a field of view of the user; determining whether the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user; presenting a guide indicator in the field of view of the user responsive to determining that the highlight point is outside of the field of view of the user, wherein the guide indicator provides information about the highlight point, wherein the guide indicator is positioned to indicate a direction for the user to turn to align the field of view of the user with the field of view of the highlight point, and wherein the information displays an amount of time until the future time that the highlight point will be presented; and presenting a field of view comprising the highlight point from the media content regardless of the field of view of the user.
15. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the guide indicator presents the field of view containing the highlight point in the media content, thereby showing the highlight point to the user regardless of the field of view of the user.
16. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the guide indicator is a textual description of the highlight point.
17. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the guide indicator is presented before the highlight point occurs in the media content.
18. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further include updating the analyzing the media content based on the field of view of the user.
19. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the media content is panoramic video and the analyzing the media content includes reviewing previous fields of view of previous users.
20. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 14, wherein the processing system comprises a plurality of processors in a distributed computing environment.
</claims>
</document>
