<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/36,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARENT, GERSHON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71994057
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatic bug classification using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
A machine learning engine can be used to identify inconsistencies and errors in a plurality of bug reports and to glean new information from the bug reports. Bug data associated with a large number of bug reports from different bug categories may be processed and used by a machine learning model of the machine learning engine. The machine learning engine can extract bug attributes from the bug data of a first bug. The machine learning engine can then compare the attributes of the first bug to a machine learning model created using a plurality of second bug reports. Based on then similarity between the first bug report and the second bug reports, the machine learning engine can apply, or correct, various attributes of the first bug report. The machine learning model may be updated over time by the machine learning engine as data correlations evolve.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; one or more inputs; and memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: retrieving a plurality of training bug reports from a bug report database; analyzing the plurality of training bug reports; assigning a plurality of initial attributes to individual training bug reports of the plurality of training bug reports; retrieving individual values for attributes in the plurality of initial attributes assigned to a bug report of the plurality of training bug reports; analyzing the plurality of initial attributes to determine a first plurality of additional attributes associated with the individual training bug reports, wherein values of the first plurality of additional attributes are not included in the individual training bug reports, and further wherein at least one of the first plurality of additional attributes identifies a stage of development of the individual training bug reports; receiving, from a user at the one or more inputs, first values for the first plurality of additional attributes associated with the individual training bug reports; creating a machine learning model associating the first plurality of additional attributes to the plurality of initial attributes for the individual training bug reports; retrieving a first bug report from the bug report database; analyzing, by the machine learning model, the first bug report to identify second values for a plurality of attributes in the first bug report and a second plurality of additional attributes that are different from the plurality of initial attributes, wherein the second values are not included in the first bug report; calculating, by a machine learning engine using the machine learning model, an additional attribute association score (AAAS) for individual values of an additional attribute of the second plurality of additional attributes associated with the first bug report; and assigning a first value to the additional attribute for which the AAAS is highest to the first bug report.
2. The system of claim 1, the acts further comprising: determining that the AAAS is above a pre-determined threshold; and automatically assigning the first value to the additional attribute in the first bug report.
3. The system of claim 1, the acts further comprising: determining that the AAAS is below a pre-determined threshold; automatically assigning the first value to the additional attribute in the first bug report; and creating an error report indicating that the AAAS is below the pre-determined threshold.
4. The system of claim 1, the acts further comprising: determining that the AAAS is below a pre-determined threshold; automatically assigning a null value to the additional attribute in the first bug report; and creating an error report indicating that the AAAS is below the pre-determined threshold.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the values for the additional attributes are chosen from one of software development, systems integration, flight simulation, indoor flight testing, or outdoor flight testing.
6. A method comprising: retrieving individual values for attributes in one or more initial attributes assigned to a first a bug report of a plurality of bug reports; analyzing, by a machine learning engine, first image data, first binary data, and first text data associated with the first bug report; identifying, by the machine learning engine, one or more first additional attributes of the first bug report by extracting first values for the one or more first additional attributes, wherein the first values include at least one of a project name, a team or department, a person associated with reporting a first bug, or a brief description of the first bug from at least one of the first image data, the first binary data, or the first text data; analyzing, by the machine learning engine, the one or more attributes of the first bug report to determine second values for one or more second additional attributes associated with the first bug report, wherein the second values of the one or more second additional attributes are not included in the first bug report, the one or more second additional attributes being different from the one or more first additional attributes, wherein at least one of the one or more second additional attributes identifies a stage of development associated with the first bug report; calculating, by the machine learning engine and based on a machine learning model, an additional attribute association score (AAAS) for individual values of an additional attribute of the one or more second additional attributes associated with the first bug report; and identifying a first value for the additional attribute for the first bug report for which the AAAS is highest.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: providing, via one or more outputs, the first value for the additional attribute and the AAAS to a user.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining that the AAAS for the first value is above a predetermined threshold; and automatically assigning the first value for the additional attribute in the first bug report with the machine learning engine; and saving the first bug report with the additional attribute to a bug report database.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining that the AAAS for the first value is below a predetermined threshold; identifying a second value for the additional attribute for the first bug report for which the AAAS is a second highest value; and creating an error report containing the first value and the second value and a respective AAAS for the first value and the second value to enable a user to manually add the additional attribute to the first bug report.
10. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising: analyzing, by the machine learning engine, training image data, training binary data, and training text data for individual training bug reports of a plurality of training bug reports; identifying third values for a plurality of attributes for the individual training bug reports from the training image data, the training binary data, and the training text data; receiving, from a user via one or more inputs, a second value for at least one additional attribute for each of the plurality of training bug reports; and creating the machine learning model associating the second value for the at least one additional attribute to the third values for the plurality of attributes for the individual training bug reports.
11. The method of claim 6, wherein the first value for the additional attribute comprises one of: initial development, software development, systems integration, flight simulation, indoor flight testing, or outdoor flight testing.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one additional attribute comprises an identity of software running at a time at which the first bug associated with a training bug report occurred; and wherein the first value for the additional attribute comprises one of: computer aided design (CAD)/computer aided manufacturing (CAM) software, flight simulation software, or flight control software.
13. The method of claim 6, wherein the first image data comprises one or more screenshots from at least one piece of software running at a time the first bug associated with the first bug report occurred.
14. The method of claim 6, wherein the first binary data comprises a data dump from at least one piece of software running at a time the first bug associated with the first bug report occurred.
15. A system comprising: a user interface to receive inputs from a user; one or more outputs to provide outputs to the user; one or more processors; a bug report database comprising at least a plurality of training bug reports and a plurality of bug reports; and memory storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed, cause the one or more processors to: retrieve the plurality of training bug reports from the bug report database; extract from individual training bug reports of the plurality of training bug reports a plurality of initial attributes; retrieve individual values for attributes in the plurality of initial attributes assigned to a bug report of the plurality of training bug reports; analyzing the plurality of initial attributes to determine a first plurality of additional attributes associated with the individual training bug reports, wherein values of the first plurality of additional attributes are not included in the individual training bug reports, and further wherein at least one of the first plurality of additional attributes identifies a stage of development of the individual training bug reports; receive, via the user interface, a selection of first values for the first plurality of additional attributes associated with the individual training bug reports; create a machine learning model associating the first values for the first plurality of additional attributes to the plurality of initial attributes for the individual training bug reports; retrieve the plurality of bug reports from the bug report database; and analyze, by the machine learning model, the bug report of the plurality of bug reports to identify second values for a second plurality of additional attributes that are different from the plurality of initial attributes, wherein the second values are not included in the bug report.
16. The system of claim 15, the memory further causing the one or more processors to: calculate an additional attribute association score (AAAS) for individual values for an additional attribute of the second plurality of additional attributes for the bug report; select the value for the additional attribute that has a highest AAAS score; assign the value to the additional attribute in the bug report; and save the bug report in the bug report database with the value for the additional attribute.
17. The system of claim 15, the memory further causing the one or more processors to: calculate an association score for a plurality of values for a first attribute of the second plurality of additional attributes; select a first value for the first attribute that has a highest association score; and compare the first value for the first attribute that has the highest association score to a current value for the first attribute.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the first value for the first attribute that has the highest association score and the current value for the first attribute are the same, the memory further causing the one or more processors to: save the bug report with the current value for the first attribute in the bug report database.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the first value for the first attribute that has the highest association score and the current value for the first attribute are different, the memory further causing the one or more processors to: update the current value for the first attribute to the first value for the first attribute that has the highest association score; and save the bug report with the first value for the first attribute that has the highest association score in the bug report database.
20. The system as recited in claim 15, wherein the user interface displays a when found attribute associated with the stage of development at which a bug occurred; and wherein the when found attribute comprises a value selected from one or more of: initial design and brainstorming, CAD/CAM design, coding, systems integration, simulation, indoor flight testing, cage flight testing, or outdoor flight testing.
</claims>
</document>
