<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/095,B60W30/18,G05D1/00,G06N20/00,G07C5/00,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRYANT, REGINALD EUGENE
PICKOVER CLIFFORD A.
WALCOTT, AISHA
WELDEMARIAM, KOMMINIST
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69101772
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing vehicle to vehicle communication to facilitate operational safety via risk assessment
</title>

<abstract>
In a given computing node comprising at least one processor operatively coupled to a memory and implemented in a given vehicle, the method comprises obtaining at the given computing node data from at least one of: (i) one or more sensors on the given vehicle; (ii) one or more computing nodes associated with one or more other vehicles via at least one vehicle-to-vehicle communication protocol; and (iii) one or more data sources along the path of the given vehicle. The given computing node utilizes at least a portion of the obtained data to compute a risk assessment for the given vehicle with respect to an operational safety level of a proposed vehicle action. The given computing node initiates or prevents the proposed vehicle action for the given vehicle based on the computed risk assessment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: in a given computing node comprising at least one processor operatively coupled to a memory and implemented in a given vehicle; obtaining at the given computing node data from at least one of: (i) one or more sensors on the given vehicle; (ii) one or more computing nodes associated with one or more other vehicles via at least one vehicle-to-vehicle communication protocol; and (iii) one or more data sources along the path of the given vehicle; utilizing at the given computing node at least a portion of the obtained data to compute a risk assessment for the given vehicle with respect to an operational safety level of a proposed vehicle action; initiating or preventing at the given computing node the proposed vehicle action for the given vehicle based on the computed risk assessment; and receiving, for the given vehicle at the given computing node, one or more of a rating, a reward, and a payment based on operational safety criteria.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the proposed vehicle action comprises a lane passing action whereby the given vehicle intends to pass at least one object.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the at least one object is another vehicle moving in the same path as the given vehicle.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising utilizing at least a portion of the obtained data to generate a dynamic map of a portion of the path of the given vehicle.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the dynamic map is a multi-view map of a local area within which the proposed vehicle action is to occur.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the dynamic multi-view map is generated by aggregating sensor data in real-time from at least a portion of the one or more other vehicles.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors comprise one or more optical devices, one or more camera, one or more light sensors, one or more audio sensors, one or more LIDAR devices, one or more radar devices, and one or more ultrasonic devices.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising the computing node of the given vehicle interpreting signals from the one or more other vehicles based on analysis and detection of one or more of a light pattern, an audio pattern, and gesture recognition.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the interpretation of signals is performed with objective sensor information as an aid in understanding driving context, culture and crowdsourcing.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the risk assessment considers analysis of one or more of: road conditions, vehicle types, vehicle payload, road types, weather, need to perform proposed vehicle action, time of day, and road topology.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the risk assessment employs real-time visual analytics and deep learning algorithms by scanning the road ahead or back of the given vehicle to attempt to ensure operational safety.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the given vehicle further obtains a no passing signal from a beacon.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the risk assessment is computed using a current and historical context of the given vehicle.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a portion of the data exchanged between the given vehicle and the one or more other vehicles is managed via a blockchain-based system.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the given vehicle is a self-driving vehicle.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more other vehicles comprises one or more of a self-driving vehicle and a non-self-driving vehicle.
17. A method, comprising: in a given computing node comprising at least one processor operatively coupled to a memory and implemented in a given vehicle; obtaining at the given computing node data from at least one of: (i) one or more sensors on the given vehicle; (ii) one or more computing nodes associated with one or more other vehicles via at least one vehicle-to-vehicle communication protocol; and (iii) one or more data sources along the path of the given vehicle; utilizing at the given computing node at least a portion of the obtained data to compute a risk assessment for the given vehicle with respect to an operational safety level of a proposed vehicle action; and initiating or preventing at the given computing node the proposed vehicle action for the given vehicle based on the computed risk assessment; wherein the proposed vehicle action comprises a determination of where to start passing, when to start passing, acceleration, and engine horsepower and performance.
18. An apparatus, comprising: at least one processor operatively coupled to a memory and forming a given computing node implemented in a given vehicle, wherein the given computing node is configured to: obtain at the given computing node data from at least one of: (i) one or more sensors on the given vehicle; (ii) one or more computing nodes associated with one or more other vehicles via at least one vehicle-to-vehicle communication protocol; and (iii) one or more data sources along the path of the given vehicle; utilize at the given computing node at least a portion of the obtained data to compute a risk assessment for the given vehicle with respect to an operational safety level of a proposed vehicle action; initiate or prevent at the given computing node the proposed vehicle action for the given vehicle based on the computed risk assessment; and receive, for the given vehicle at the given computing node, one or more of a rating, a reward, and a payment based on operational safety criteria.
19. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory processor-readable storage medium having encoded therein executable code of one or more software programs, wherein the one or more software programs when executed by the one or more processors of a given computing node associated with a given vehicle implement steps of: obtaining at the given computing node data from at least one of: (i) one or more sensors on the given vehicle; (ii) one or more computing nodes associated with one or more other vehicles via at least one vehicle-to-vehicle communication protocol; and (iii) one or more data sources along the path of the given vehicle; utilizing at the given computing node at least a portion of the obtained data to compute a risk assessment for the given vehicle with respect to an operational safety level of a proposed vehicle action; initiating or preventing at the given computing node the proposed vehicle action for the given vehicle based on the computed risk assessment; and receiving, for the given vehicle at the given computing node, one or more of a rating, a reward, and a payment based on operational safety criteria.
</claims>
</document>
