<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04L29/06,H04L9/06,H04L9/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (USAA)
UNITES SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (USAA)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DELONG, JOSEPH
MAHONEY, NATHAN
NAGELBERG, ALEXANDER B.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68241924
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Cryptographic key generation from biometric data
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are described for cryptographic key generation based on biometric data associated with a user. Biometric data, such as fingerprint(s) and/or heartbeat data, may be collected using one or more sensors in proximity to the user. The biometric data may be analyzed to generate a cryptographic key. In some implementations, the key may be employed by the user to access data, access certain (e.g., secure) feature(s) of an application, authenticate the user, digitally sign document(s), and/or for other purpose(s). In some implementations, the key may be re-generated for each access request or authentication instance, based on the user's fingerprint or other biometric data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method performed by at least one processor device for cryptographic key generation from biometric data, the method comprising: receiving, by the at least one processor device, the biometric data collected by at least one sensor device in proximity to a user; determining, by the at least one processor device, a plurality of values based on the received biometric data associated with the user, each value of the plurality of values determined based on a respective portion of the biometric data, wherein determining each value of the plurality of values based on the biometric data comprises determining an initial value based on an analysis of the respective portion of the biometric data, and randomly varying the initial valve within a calibrated tolerance range to generate each value of the plurality of values determined from the biometric data; generating, by the at least one processor device, a cryptographic key based at least in part on a combination of the determined plurality of values; and employing, by the at least one processor device, the generated cryptographic key to allow the user to access data stored on at least one blockchain based at least in part on the cryptographic key.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one fingerprint; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the fingerprint.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein each value indicates a density of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein each value indicates an arrangement of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one heartbeat waveform; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the heartbeat waveform.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the cryptographic key includes: accessing seed data including a seed; and hashing the combination of the plurality of values, based on the seed, to generate the cryptographic key.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the seed data comprises the calibrated tolerance range, a size of the respective portion of the biometric data, a location of the respective portion of the biometric data, and a number of portions of the biometric data.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: employing, by the at least one processor device, the cryptographic key to sign a digital document.
9. A system for cryptographic key generation from biometric data, comprising: at least one processor device; and a memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor device, the memory storing instructions which, when executed by the at least one processor device, cause the at least one processor device to perform operations comprising: receiving the biometric data collected by at least one sensor device in proximity to a user; determining a plurality of values based on the received biometric data associated with the user, each value of the plurality of values determined based on a respective portion of the biometric data, wherein determining each value of the plurality of values based on the biometric data comprises determining an initial value based on an analysis of the respective portion of the biometric data, and randomly varying the initial valve within a calibrated tolerance range to generate each value of the plurality of values determined from the biometric data; generating a cryptographic key based at least in part on a combination of the determined plurality of values; and employing the generated cryptographic key allow the user to access data stored on at least one blockchain based at least in part on the cryptographic key.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one fingerprint; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the fingerprint.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein each value indicates a density of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein each value indicates an arrangement of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one heartbeat waveform; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the heartbeat waveform.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein generating the cryptographic key includes: accessing seed data including a seed; and hashing the combination of the plurality of values, based on the seed, to generate the cryptographic key.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the seed data comprises the calibrated tolerance range, a size of the respective portion of the biometric data, a location of the respective portion of the biometric data, and a number of portions of the biometric data.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein the operations comprise employing, by the at least one processor device, the cryptographic key to sign a digital document.
17. One or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions which, when executed by at least one processor device, cause the at least one processor device to perform operations for cryptographic key generation from biometric data, the operations comprising: receiving the biometric data collected by at least one sensor device in proximity to a user; determining a plurality of values based on the received biometric data associated with the user, each value of the plurality of values determined based on a respective portion of the biometric data, wherein determining each value of the plurality of values based on the biometric data comprises determining an initial value based on an analysis of the respective portion of the biometric data, and randomly varying the initial valve within a calibrated tolerance range to generate each value of the plurality of values determined from the biometric data; generating a cryptographic key based at least in part on a combination of the determined plurality of values; and employing the generated cryptographic key to allow the user to access data stored on at least one blockchain based at least in part on the cryptographic key.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one fingerprint; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the fingerprint.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 18, wherein each value indicates a density of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 18, wherein each value indicates an arrangement of traces in a corresponding portion of the fingerprint.
21. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein: the biometric data includes at least one heartbeat waveform; and the plurality of values are determined based on different portions of the heartbeat waveform.
22. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein generating the cryptographic key includes: accessing seed data including a seed; and hashing the combination of the plurality of values, based on the seed, to generate the cryptographic key.
23. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 22, wherein the seed data comprises the calibrated tolerance range, a size of the respective portion of the biometric data, a location of the respective portion of the biometric data, and a number of portions of the biometric data.
24. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the operations comprise employing, by the at least one processor device, the cryptographic key to sign a digital document.
</claims>
</document>
