<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03K19/17724,H03K19/17772,H03K19/17784
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOWIN SEMICONDUCTOR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHU JINGHUI
LIU JIANHUA
SONG NING
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70850663
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for providing regional electrical grid for power conservation in a programmable device
</title>

<abstract>
A process or method for facilitating configuring a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") using a group of configurable logic blocks ("CLBs") to perform one or more logic functions is disclosed. The process, in one aspect, is able to designate a first region of FPGA to a dynamic power region ("DPR") in accordance with a user selection for power conservation. After receiving, from a user, a first submodule with a designation of DPR, the first region of FPGA is assigned to the first logic operation. Upon setting a first primitive associated to the first region of FPGA for controlling power consumption of the DPR, a first enabling logic is created in a second region of FPGA for facilitating power management to the first submodule in the first region of FPGA via the first primitive.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for configuring a programmable logic device to selectively perform one or more logic functions comprising: designating at least a first region of a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") to a first dynamic power region ("DPR") in accordance with a power selection for power conservation; receiving, from a user, a first submodule with a designation of DPR assigning to the first region of the FPGA for a first logic operation; setting a first primitive of a first regional power control associated to the first region of the FPGA for controlling power consumption of the DPR; creating a first enabling logic in a second region of the FPGA in a second DPR for facilitating power management to the first submodule in the first region of the FPGA via the first primitive; and establishing a second enabling logic in a third region of the FPGA in a third DPR for facilitating power management to the second region of the FPGA via a second primitive.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a user input containing the first submodule designated for the first DPR.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein receiving the user input includes obtaining an associated power control primitive for controlling power to the DPR.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein designating at least a first region of the FPGA includes assigning a logical DPR to a predefined physical location of the FPGA.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein designating at least a first region of the FPGA includes assigning a logical DPR to a location of the FPGA selected by a design tool.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising designating regions of the FPGA as always-on regions if such regions are not assigned as DPRs.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein designating at least the first region of the FPGA includes receiving the power selection from a user input via a chip design tool.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the first submodule includes obtaining programmed logic elements ("LEs") of the FPGA for performing data driving computing logic which is configured to be powered on in response to availability of input data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the first submodule includes obtaining programmed logic elements ("LEs") of the FPGA for performing data driving computing logic which is configured to be powered off in response to availability of input data.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein setting the first primitive of the first regional power control includes designating output of the first primitive for controlling power supply to the first region.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a first enabling logic includes facilitating an issuance of wakeup signal to wake up the first region of the FPGA based on a set of predefined conditions.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: designating the second region of the FPGA to the second DPR in accordance with a second power selection for power conservation; and receiving a second submodule with a designation of DPR assigning to the second region of the FPGA for second logic operation.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: setting a second primitive of a second regional power control associated to the second region of the FPGA for controlling power consumption of the second DPR.
14. A method for facilitating programming a field programmable gate array ("FPGA") with an enhanced power management, the method comprising: allowing a user to designate a first region of an FPGA to a dynamic power region ("DPR") for power conservation; facilitating building of a first submodule by the user with a designation of DPR for performing data driving logic operations; mapping the first submodule to the first region of the FPGA; setting a first primitive of a first regional power control associated to the first region of the FPGA for managing power consumption of the first region; permitting the user to create a first enabling logic in a second region of the FPGA in a second DPR for facilitating power management to the first submodule in the first region of the FPGA via the first primitive; and creating a second enabling logic in a third region of the FPGA in a third DPR for facilitating power management to the second region of the FPGA.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising designating some regions of the FPGA as always-on regions if such regions are not assigned as DPRs.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein facilitating building of the first submodule includes obtaining programmed logic elements ("LEs") of the FPGA for performing data driving computing logic which is configured to be power on in response to availability of input data.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein facilitating building of the first submodule includes obtaining programmed logic elements ("LEs") of the FPGA for performing data driving computing logic which is configured to be power off in response to availability of input data.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: allowing the user to designate the third region of an FPGA to the DPR for power conservation; facilitating building of a second submodule by the user with a designation of DPR for performing second data driving logic operations; mapping the second submodule to the third region of the FPGA; setting a second primitive of a second power control associated to the third region of the FPGA for managing power consumption of the third region; and permitting the user to create a second enabling logic in a fourth region of the FPGA for facilitating power management to the second submodule in the third region of the FPGA via the second primitive.
19. A method of dynamically power-down and power-up a portion of a programmable semiconductor device, comprising: partitioning a programmable logic device ("PLD") into a first, a second, a third, and a fourth regions; setting the first region of the PLD to a dynamic power region ("DPR") in accordance with a user input; assigning a first submodule to the first region of the PLD based on designation of DPR in the first submodule; setting a first primitive of a first regional power control associated to the first region of the PLD for controlling power consumption of the first region; creating a first enabling logic in a second region of the PLD in a second DPR for facilitating power management of the first submodule in the first region of the PLD via the first primitive; and establishing a second enabling logic in a third region of the FPGA in a third DPR for facilitating power management to the second region of the FPGA.
20. The method of claim 19, comprising: generating a first power control signal by a second region having a plurality of second configurable logic blocks ("LB s") in accordance with a result of data processing by at least a portion of the plurality of second LBs; forwarding the first power control signal from the second region to a first regional power control ("RPC") port via a second-to-first power connection coupling the second region to the first region; waking up at least a portion of a plurality of first LBs of the first region in response to the first power control signal facilitating power supply to the first region; and resuming performance of configured logic function of the first region based first configuration code stored in a first memory.
</claims>
</document>
