<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G08C17/00,H04B17/318,H04W4/80,H04W52/02,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MOTOROLA MOBILITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BALASINGH, BINESH
HOR-LAO, MARY KHUN
GUPTA, RANJEET
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408594
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Controlling device modem scan duty cycle based on device sensor or wireless data
</title>

<abstract>
Various different types of computing devices include a modem that allows the computing device to communicate wirelessly with other devices using various different radio access technologies (RATs). During operation of the computing device, the modem scans for a cell to connect to using a particular RAT, and once found connects to the cell. The computing device also includes a modem scan management system that manages the modem scanning for a cell to connect to, controlling the modem's scanning for a cell to connect to, such as stopping scanning using a particular RAT or reducing the frequency of the scans until movement of the computing device by a significant amount is detected. In response to a significant amount of movement being detected, scanning using the particular RAT can resume or the frequency of the scans can be increased.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented in a computing device, the method comprising: determining that the computing device is stationary; detecting whether the computing device is in a fringe area where access to a cell is intermittent or is a weak connection, or in an area with no cell coverage; determining a modem scan duty cycle for at least one radio access technology based on whether the computing device is in the fringe area or in the area with no cell coverage; communicating a first indication of the modem scan duty cycle for the at least one radio access technology to a modem of the computing device; determining, after communicating the first indication to the modem, that the computing device has moved a significant amount, the determining being based on one or both of sensor data obtained from a sensor associated with the computing device and data derived from one or more wireless signals; and communicating a second indication of the modem scan duty cycle to the modem of the computing device, the second indication indicating to reset the modem scan duty cycle for the modem to a standard scan duty cycle.
2. The method as recited in claim 1, the method further comprising the modem scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology at the indicated modem scan duty cycle.
3. The method as recited in claim 1, the determining the modem scan duty cycle comprising determining, in response to determining that the computing device is in a poor service area, to stop scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology but to continue scanning for a cell on one or more other radio access technologies.
4. The method as recited in claim 3, the second indication indicating to resume scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology.
5. The method as recited in claim 1, the determining the modem scan duty cycle comprising determining to reduce the scan duty cycle in response to determining that the computing device is in an area with no cell coverage.
6. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the determining that the computing device has moved a significant amount is based on data from the sensor rather than the data derived from one or more wireless signals.
7. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the determining that the computing device has moved a significant amount is based on the data derived from one or more wireless signals rather than the data from the sensor.
8. The method as recited in claim 7, wherein the determining that the computing device has moved a significant amount based on the data derived from one or more wireless signals comprising determining, using a machine learning system trained on a set of training data obtained during use of the computing device.
9. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is included in the computing device, or is external to and attached to the computing device.
10. The method as recited in claim 1, wherein the sensor is selected from the group including an accelerometer, a gyroscope, and a barometer.
11. A computing device comprising: a processor; a modem; and a computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon multiple instructions that, responsive to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: determining that the computing device is stationary; detecting whether the computing device is in a fringe area where access to a cell is intermittent or is a weak connection, or in an area with no cell coverage; determining a modem scan duty cycle for at least one radio access technology based on whether the computing device is in the fringe area or in the area with no cell coverage, the determining the modem scan duty cycle comprising determining, in response to determining that the modem is toggling between the at least one radio access technology with a weak connection and one or more other radio access technologies, to stop scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology but to continue scanning for a cell on one or more other radio access technologies; communicating a first indication of the modem scan duty cycle for the at least one radio access technology to the modem; determining, after communicating the first indication to the modem, that the computing device has moved a significant amount, the determining being based on one or both of sensor data obtained from a sensor associated with the computing device and data derived from one or more wireless signals obtained from a wireless transceiver; and communicating a second indication of the modem scan duty cycle to the modem of the computing device, the second indication indicating to resume scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology.
12. The computing device as recited in claim 11, wherein the determining that the computing device has moved a significant amount is based on the data derived from one or more wireless signals using a machine learning system trained on a set of training data obtained during use of the computing device.
13. A computing device comprising: a processor; a modem; and a computer-readable storage medium having stored thereon multiple instructions that, responsive to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: determining that the computing device is stationary; detecting whether the computing device is in a fringe area where access to a cell is intermittent or is a weak connection, or in an area with no cell coverage; determining a modem scan duty cycle for at least one radio access technology based on whether the computing device is in the fringe area or in the area with no cell coverage, the determining the modem scan duty cycle including determining to reduce the modem scan duty cycle in response to determining that the computing device is in the area with no cell coverage; determining, after communicating the first indication to the modem, that the computing device has moved a significant amount, the determining being based on one or both of sensor data obtained from a sensor associated with the computing device and data derived from one or more wireless signals obtained from a wireless transceiver; and communicating a second indication of the modem scan duty cycle to the modem of the computing device, the second indication indicating to increase the modem scan duty cycle.
14. The computing device as recited in claim 13, wherein the determining that the computing device has moved a significant amount is based on the data derived from one or more wireless signals using a machine learning system trained on a set of training data obtained during use of the computing device.
15. The computing device as recited in claim 13, wherein the sensor is external to the computing device.
16. A computing device comprising: a modem; and a modem scan management system including a device poor service area detection module to detect whether the computing device is stationary and whether the computing device is in a fringe area where access to a cell is intermittent or is a weak connection, or in an area with no cell coverage, a modem scan control module to determine a modem scan duty cycle for at least one radio access technology based on whether the computing device is in the fringe area or in the area with no cell coverage, and to communicate a first indication of the modem scan duty cycle for the at least one radio access technology to the modem, and a movement determination module to determine, after the first indication is communicated to the modem, that the computing device has moved a significant amount, the determining being based on one or both of sensor data obtained from a sensor associated with the computing device and data derived from one or more wireless signals obtained from a wireless transceiver, the modem scan control module being further to communicate a second indication of the modem scan duty cycle to the modem, the second indication indicating to reset the modem scan duty cycle for the modem to a standard scan duty cycle.
17. The computing device as recited in claim 16, wherein the modem scans for a cell on the at least one radio access technology at the indicated modem scan duty cycle.
18. The computing device as recited in claim 16, wherein to determine the modem scan duty cycle is to determine, in response to determining that the computing device is in a poor service area based on a signal strength for a cell on the at least one radio access technology being less than a threshold value, to stop scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology but to continue scanning for a cell on one or more other radio access technologies.
19. The computing device as recited in claim 18, the second indication indicating to resume scanning for a cell on the at least one radio access technology.
20. The computing device as recited in claim 16, wherein to determine the modem scan duty cycle is to determine to reduce the scan duty cycle in response to determining that the computing device is in an area with no cell coverage.
</claims>
</document>
