<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A46B15/00,A46B5/02,A46B9/04,A61C17/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GATZEMEYER, JOHN
SMALLMAN, IAN JOSEPH
LINTOTT, ANDREW BRENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60543704
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Oral care system and method
</title>

<abstract>
An oral care system may include: an oral care device including: at least one teeth cleaning element; and at least one sensor configured to detect motion of the oral care device during a brushing routine of a user and to generate sensor data corresponding to the detected motion; and a programmable processor configured to: receive the sensor data generated by the at least one sensor; and determine a target brushing time based on the sensor data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An oral care system comprising: an oral care device comprising: at least one teeth cleaning element; and at least one sensor configured to detect motion of the oral care device during a brushing routine of a user and to generate sensor data corresponding to the detected motion; a memory storing an optimum time during a portion of a brushing routine; and a programmable processor configured to: receive the sensor data generated by the at least one sensor; process the sensor data to determine a brush stroke motion from a plurality of brush stroke motions; and determine a target brushing time based on the determined brush stroke motion by determining an offset time and adding it to the optimum time.
2. The oral care system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises one or more of an accelerometer or a gyroscope.
3. The oral care system according to claim 2, wherein the accelerometer comprises a 3-axis accelerometer.
4. The oral care system according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing unit, wherein: the oral care device comprises: a first communication module operatively coupled to the at least one sensor and configured to transmit the sensor data; and the data processing unit comprises: the programmable processor; a second communication module operatively coupled to the programmable processor and configured to receive the sensor data from the first communication module; the memory operatively coupled to the programmable processor, the memory comprising an optimum time for a first portion of the brushing routine; a display operatively coupled to the programmable processor; and wherein the programmable processor is configured to analyze the sensor data to determine the brush stroke motion used during the first portion of the brushing routine, determine the offset time using the determined brush stroke motion during a start of the first portion of the brushing routine, calculate the target brushing time for the first portion of the brushing routine as the optimum time plus the offset time, and indicate to the user on the display the target brushing time.
5. The oral care system according to claim 4, wherein after determining the offset time, the programmable processor is further configured to repeatedly: re-determine the offset time using the determined brush stroke motion during the first portion of the brushing routine; and adjust the target brushing time using the re-determined offset time.
6. The oral care system according to claim 4, wherein the programmable processor is further configured to calculate a performance metric using the determined brush stroke motion for the first portion of the brushing routine and to store the performance metric in the memory.
7. The oral care system according to claim 4, wherein the determined brush stroke motion comprises a composite of two or more of a y-axis brush stroke motion, a z-axis brush stroke motion, a quasi-circular brush stroke motion, and a flicking brush stroke motion.
8. The oral care system according to claim 4, wherein the first portion of the brushing routine comprises a brushing of a first section of a dentiture of the user, the brushing routine comprising at least the first portion and a second portion.
9. The oral care system according to claim 1, further comprising a data processing unit, wherein: the programmable processor comprises a first processor and a second processor; the oral care device comprises the first processor; and the data processing unit comprises the second processor.
10. The oral care system according to claim 9, wherein: the oral care device comprises: a first memory operatively coupled to the first processor; and a first communication module operatively coupled to the at least one sensor and configured to transmit the sensor data; and the data processing unit comprises: a second communication module operatively coupled to the second processor and configured to receive the sensor data from the first communication module; a second memory operatively coupled to the second processor, the second memory comprising the optimum time for a first portion of the brushing routine; a display operatively coupled to the second processor; wherein at least one of the first processor and the second processor is configured to analyze the sensor data to determine the brush stroke motion used during the first portion of the brushing routine, and during the first portion of the brushing routine and while the second communication module receives the sensor data from the first communication module, determine the offset time using the determined brush stroke motion, calculate the target brushing time for the first portion of the brushing routine as the optimum time plus the offset time, and indicate to the user on the display the target brushing time.
11. The oral care system according to claim 10, wherein after determining the offset time, at least one of the first processor and the second processor is configured to repeatedly: re-determine the offset time using the determined brush stroke motion during the first portion of the brushing routine; and adjust the target brushing time using the re-determined offset time.
12. The oral care system according to claim 10, wherein: at least one of the first processor and the second processor is configured to calculate a performance metric using the determined brush stroke motion for the first portion of the brushing routine; and the second processor is configured to store the calculated performance metric for the first portion of the brushing routine in the second memory.
13. The oral care system according to claim 10, wherein the determined brush stroke motion comprises a composite of two or more of a y-axis brush stroke motion, a z-axis brush stroke motion, a quasi-circular brush stroke motion, and a flicking brush stroke motion.
14. The oral care system according to claim 10, wherein the first portion of the brushing routine comprises a brushing of a first section of a dentiture of the user, the brushing routine comprising at least the first portion and a second portion.
15. The oral care system according to claim 1, wherein the at least one teeth cleaning element comprises at least one bristle tuft.
</claims>
</document>
