<document>

<filing_date>
2020-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B32B37/06,B32B37/12,C09J7/38,G06K19/06,G06K19/07,G06K19/077,H04W4/02,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TRACKONOMY SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHOCHE, AJAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62488073
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Error based locationing of a mobile target on a road network
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, apparatus, and tangible non-transitory carrier media encoded with one or more computer programs that can determine the path or route most likely navigated by a mobile target are described. In accordance with particular embodiments, the most likely path or route is determined based on path-based scoring of position estimates obtained from different types of complementary locationing signal sources. Instead of fusing the position data derived from the different types of signal sources, these particular embodiments determine the most likely path navigated by the mobile target based on an independent aggregation of the position estimates derived from complementary signals of different source types.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a tracking system comprising one or more program instructions encoded in one or more non-transitory computer-readable media to track a mobile target on a road network, the method comprising: receiving a respective sequence of locationing signals from each of multiple sources of different respective locationing signal source types; processing the multiple sequences of locationing signals of different locationing signal source types to obtain position estimates for the mobile target; determining respective scores for map-defined paths based on respective comparisons between the position estimates obtained for the mobile target and locations on the respective map-defined paths; and selecting a map-defined path as the geographic path most likely navigated by the mobile target based on the respective scores determined for the map-defined paths, wherein the selecting is performed cyclically over respective intervals; and for each of the one or more intervals, filtering out ones of the position estimates that are mapped to the respective map-defined path and are determined to be out-of-sequence based on time information associated with the respective position estimates.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the respective locationing signal source types comprise a satellite signal source type, a dead-reckoning signal source type, and a terrestrial wireless communication signal source type.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the sequences of locationing signals are processed into respective sequences of position estimates.
4. The method of claim 1, the respective scores are determined based on respective distances between the position estimates obtained for the mobile target and locations on the respective map-defined paths.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the respective distances are Euclidean distances.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the determination of the respective scores comprises squaring the respective distances and summing the respective squared distances for each map-defined path.
7. The method of claim 4, further comprising selecting the map-defined path with a lowest respective score.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising determining respective scores for the map-defined paths based on weighting ones of the distances with respective weights associated with the sources of the received sequences of locationing signals.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering out ones of the map-defined paths that fail to satisfy one or more limits relating to movement of the mobile target.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more limits comprise one or more of a maximum speed of the mobile target and a maximum acceleration of the mobile target.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more limits comprise one or more restrictions defined in the geographic database for the respective segments of the map-defined paths.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the processing comprises iteratively identifying respective current sets of the position estimates for the mobile target in a window over respective intervals.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising for each interval, determining respective scores for the map-defined paths, and selecting the most likely map-defined path.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising, in a subsequent interval, at least a portion of the map-defined path selected in a preceding interval is replaced with a respective portion of a different map-defined path that has a better score in the subsequent interval than the map-defined path selected in a preceding interval.
15. A computer program product for execution by a computer system and comprising at least one non-transitory computer-readable medium having computer-readable program code portions embodied therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: a code portion executable by a tracking system to receive a respective sequence of locationing signals from each of multiple sources of different respective locationing signal source types; a code portion executable by the tracking system to process the multiple sequences of locationing signals of different locationing signal source types to obtain position estimates for the mobile target; a code portion executable by the tracking system to determine respective scores for map-defined paths based on respective comparisons between the position estimates obtained for the mobile target and locations on the respective map-defined paths; a code portion executable by the tracking system to select a map-defined path as the geographic path most likely navigated by the mobile target based on the respective scores determined for the map-defined paths, wherein the selecting is performed cyclically over respective intervals; and a code portion executable by the tracking system to filter out, for each of the one or more intervals, ones of the position estimates that are mapped to the respective map-defined path and are determined to be out-of-sequence based on time information associated with the respective position estimates.
16. A computing device, comprising: one or more processors; and memory coupled to the one or more processors and storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors causes the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving a respective sequence of locationing signals from each of multiple sources of different respective locationing signal source types; processing the multiple sequences of locationing signals of different locationing signal source types to obtain position estimates for the mobile target; determining respective scores for map-defined paths based on respective comparisons between the position estimates obtained for the mobile target and locations on the respective map-defined paths; selecting a map-defined path as the geographic path most likely navigated by the mobile target based on the respective scores determined for the map-defined paths, wherein the selecting is performed cyclically over respective intervals; and for each of the one or more intervals, filtering out ones of the position estimates that are mapped to the respective map-defined path and are determined to be out-of-sequence based on time information associated with the respective position estimates.
</claims>
</document>
