<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/62,G06F21/88,G06K9/00,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHMED, SYED LUQMAN
NAGPAL, ABHISHEK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70280722
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data loss prevention using machine learning
</title>

<abstract>
A data loss prevention device that includes a data loss prevention engine implemented by a processor. The data loss prevention engine is configured to receive data in transit to a target network device and to identify content within the data. The data loss prevention engine is configured to determine the content of the data comprises an image and to determine an image type for the image based on objects within the image, and to determine whether the image type matches a restricted image type from a set of restricted image types. The data loss prevention engine is further configured to block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type matches a restricted image type and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type does not match a restricted image type.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A data loss prevention device, comprising: a memory operable to store a set of restricted image types; and a data loss prevention engine implemented by a processor operably coupled to the memory, configured to: receive data in transit to a target network device; identify content within the data; determine the content of the data comprises an image; determine an image type for the image based on objects within the image; determine whether the image type matches a restricted image type from the set of restricted image types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type matches a restricted image type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type does not match a restricted image type, wherein: the memory is further operable to store a set of restricted text types; and the data loss prevention engine is further configured to: determine the image comprises text; determine a text type for the text; determine whether the text type matches a restricted text type from the set of restricted text types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein: the memory is further operable to store a set of restricted text types; and the data loss prevention engine is further configured to: determine the content of the data comprises text; determine a text type for the text; determine whether the text type matches a restricted text type from the set of restricted text types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein: the memory is further operable to store a set of previously sent content types; and the data loss prevention engine is further configured to: determine a content type for the content of the data; determine whether the content type matches a previously sent content type from the set of previously sent content types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type does not match a previously sent content type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type matches a previously sent content type.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein blocking the transmission of the data comprises rerouting the data.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein blocking the transmission of the data comprises discarding the data.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the data loss prevention engine is further configured to send an alert in response to blocking transmission of the data.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the target network device is a printing device.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the data is an attachment to an email.
9. A data loss prevention method, comprising: receiving, by a data loss prevention engine implemented by a processor, data in transit to a target network device; identifying, by the data loss prevention engine, content within the data; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, the content of the data comprises an image; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, an image type for the image based on objects within the image; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, whether the image type matches a restricted image type from a set of restricted image types; blocking, by the data loss prevention engine, transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type matches a restricted image type; and forwarding, by the data loss prevention engine, the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type does not match a restricted image type; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, the image comprises text; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, a text type for the text; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, whether the text type matches a restricted text type from a set of restricted text types; blocking, by the data loss prevention engine, transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forwarding, by the data loss prevention engine, the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the data loss prevention engine, the content of the data comprises text; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, a text type for the text; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, whether the text type matches a restricted text type from a set of restricted text types; blocking, by the data loss prevention engine, transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forwarding, by the data loss prevention engine, the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the data loss prevention engine, a content type for the content of the data; determining, by the data loss prevention engine, whether the content type matches a previously sent content type from the set of previously sent content types; blocking, by the data loss prevention engine, transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type does not match a previously sent content type; and forwarding, by the data loss prevention engine, the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type matches a previously sent content type.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein blocking the transmission of the data comprises rerouting the data.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein blocking the transmission of the data comprises discarding the data.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising sending, by the data loss prevention engine, an alert in response to blocking transmission of the data.
15. A computer program product comprising executable instructions stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium such that when executed by a processor causes the processor to implement a data loss prevention engine configured to: receive data in transit to a target network device; identify content within the data; determine the content of the data comprises an image; determine an image type for the image based on objects within the image; determine whether the image type matches a restricted image type from a set of restricted image types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type matches a restricted image type; forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the image type does not match a restricted image type; determine the image comprises text; determine a text type for the text; determine whether the text type matches a restricted text type from a set of restricted text types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to: determine the content of the data comprises text; determine a text type for the text; determine whether the text type matches a restricted text type from a set of restricted text types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type matches a restricted text type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the text type does not match a restricted text type.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, further comprising instructions that when executed by the processor causes the processor to: determine a content type for the content of the data; determine whether the content type matches a previously sent content type from the set of previously sent content types; block transmission of the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type does not match a previously sent content type; and forward the data to the target network device in response to determining that the content type matches a previously sent content type.
</claims>
</document>
