<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/435,G06F16/438,G06F16/9535,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0485,G06F3/0488,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CMN, Inc.
</assignee>

<inventors>
KRAWCZYK, NICK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838510
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for searching and filtering media content
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides a method for searching and filtering media content, comprising presenting, with the aid of a computer processor, a first media stream from a previous filtering result. The first media stream may be generated from content aggregated from a plurality of different sources over a network. Two or more graphical elements associated with two or more content filter panels may be provided in a user interface for filtering the first media stream. The two or more content filter panels may comprise at least a first panel for filtering by media source and a second panel for filtering by social tag. A navigational gesture may be received on the user interface indicating a selection of a content filter panel. A second media stream may then be generated in response to a selection of an item provided by the selected content filter panel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for searching, filtering and presenting social media content, comprising: (a) receiving a search query on an electronic device of a user; (b) using at least said search query to (i) generate a first social media stream comprising a first set of content aggregated from a plurality of different sources and (ii) present said first social media stream on a user interface of said electronic device of said user, which social media stream is presented on said user interface with multiple animatable graphical elements, wherein said multiple animatable graphical elements are displayed with different visual features corresponding to a plurality of filtering operations along a plurality of filtering dimensions; (c) receiving input from said user on at least one of said multiple animatable graphical elements indicative of a request for performing a filtering operation on said first social media stream along a filtering dimension of said plurality of filtering dimensions; and (d) subsequent to receiving said input from said user in (c), (i) animating said multiple animatable graphical elements on said user interface and simultaneously (ii) presenting on said user interface a second social media stream comprising a second set of content, wherein said second set of content includes at least a subset of said first set of content displayed as a result of performing said filtering operation along said filtering dimension.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein (d) further comprises generating said second social media stream by automatically filtering said first social media stream along said filtering dimension in response to said request.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said electronic device is a portable electronic device and said input from said user is received via a touch-screen of said portable electronic device.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a touch-based gesture from said user to navigate said second social media stream, proceed to an additional social media stream, or proceed from said second social media stream to said first social media stream.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of filtering dimensions include at least a filtering dimension along said plurality of different sources.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein said second set of content is ranked by the number of results provided by each source.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said plurality of filtering dimensions include at least a filtering dimension along social tags and said second set of content comprises at least a portion of said first set of content grouped by said social tags.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein said second set of content is ranked based on relevancy of said social tags.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to (c), animating said multiple animatable graphical elements on said user interface with a first animation, and subsequent to (c), animating said multiple animatable graphical elements with a second animation, wherein said second animation is different than said first animation in at least movement or trajectory indicative of a drill down filtering on said first social media stream.
10. A system for searching, filtering and presenting social media content, comprising: a communication interface in communication with a plurality of different sources of content; and one or more computer processors operatively coupled to said communication interface, wherein said one or more computer processors are individually or collectively programmed to: (a) receive a search query on an electronic device of a user; (b) use at least said search query to (i) generate a first social media stream comprising a first set of content aggregated from said plurality of different sources through said communication interface, and (ii) present said first social media stream on a user interface of said electronic device of said user, which social media stream is presented on said user interface with multiple animatable graphical elements, wherein said multiple animatable graphical elements are displayed with different visual features corresponding to a plurality of filtering operations along a plurality of filtering dimensions; (c) receive input from said user on at least one of said multiple animatable graphical elements indicative of a request for performing a filtering operation on said first social media stream along a filtering dimension selected from said plurality of filtering dimensions; and (d) subsequent to receiving said input from said user in (c), (i) animate said multiple animatable graphical elements on said user interface and simultaneously (ii) present on said user interface a second social media stream comprising a second set of content, wherein said second set of content includes at least a subset of said first set of content displayed as a result of performing said filtering operation along said filtering dimension.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein said one or more computer processors are programmed to further generate said second social media stream by automatically filtering said first social media stream along said filtering dimension in response to said request.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein said electronic device is a portable electronic device and said input from said user is received via a touch-screen of said portable electronic device.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein said one or more computer processors are programmed to further receive a touch-based gesture from said user to navigate said second social media stream, proceed to an additional social media stream, or proceed from said second social media stream to said first social media stream.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein said plurality of filtering dimensions include at least a filtering dimension along said plurality of different sources.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein said second set of content is ranked by the number of results provided by each source.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein said plurality of filtering dimensions include at least a filtering dimension along social tags and said second set of content comprises at least a portion of said first set of content grouped by said social tags.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein said second set of content is ranked based on relevancy of said social tags.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein said one or more computer processors are programmed to further, prior to (c), animate said multiple animatable graphical elements on said user interface with a first animation, and subsequent to (c), animate said multiple animatable graphical elements with a second animation, wherein said second animation is different than said first animation in at least movement or trajectory indicative of a drill down filtering on said first social media stream.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein said different visual features of said multiple animatable graphical elements comprise different colors or different locations for displaying said multiple animatable graphical elements on said user interface.
</claims>
</document>
