<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSE LABS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PHILLIPS, MICHAEL, S.
MICALI, CHRISTOPHER M.
PETRI, JONAH WYMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64401585
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identifying device state changes using power data and network data
</title>

<abstract>
Devices state changes in a building may be determined using a combination of power monitoring and network monitoring. Power monitoring may be performed by obtaining a power monitoring signal and processing the power monitoring signal with models to determine information about state changes of one or more devices in the building. Network monitoring may be performed by receiving information about network packets transmitted by a device in the building and processing the information about the network packets to determine information about a different device or a state change of a different device in the building. For some devices and some implementations, information about state changes of a device may be determined by using both power monitoring and network monitoring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining states of devices in a building, the method comprising: obtaining a power monitoring signal by measuring an electrical property of a power line in the building, wherein the power line provides power to the devices in the building, the devices in the building comprising a first device, a second device, and a third device; determining a state of the first device by (1) processing a first power event in the power monitoring signal with a plurality of power models to generate a score for each power model of the plurality of power models, and (2) selecting the state of the first device from a plurality of possible states for the first device using the scores; receiving a first network packet, wherein the first network packet was transmitted by the second device; determining, using information in the first network packet, that the first network packet was sent by the second device; and selecting, using the information in the first network packet, a state of the third device from a plurality of possible states for the third device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the second device is a thermostat and the third device is a heating or cooling system; the second device is a smart plug and the third device is plugged into the smart plug; the second device is a car charger and the third device is an electric car; the second device controls one or more lights and the third device is a light; or the second device controls one or more speakers and the third device is a speaker.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: transmitting a request for information to the second device; and wherein receiving the first network packet comprises receiving a response to the request for information.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein transmitting the request for information comprises polling the second device, requesting information using an API of the second device, or requesting information about services provided by the second device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the state of the third device comprises (1) processing the information in the first network packet with a plurality of network models, and (2) selecting a highest scoring network model, wherein the highest scoring network model corresponds to the selected state of the third device.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the state of the third device comprises processing the information in the first network packet with a plurality of rules, wherein each rule of the plurality of rules comprises comparing information in the first network packet to at least one condition.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the state of the third device comprises: processing a second power event in the power monitoring signal with the plurality of power models to generate a second score for each power model of the plurality of power models; processing the information about the first network packet with a plurality of network models to generate a third score for each network model of the plurality of network models; and selecting the state of the third device using the second scores and the third scores.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the state of the third device comprises: generating a second score for each state change model of a plurality of state change models, wherein each state change model processes a second power event in the power monitoring signal and the information in the first network packet; and selecting the state of the third device using the second scores.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, comprising: receiving a plurality of network packets, wherein each network packet of the plurality of network packets was transmitted by the second device; and selecting the state of the third device using information in the plurality of network packets.
10. A system for determining states of devices in a building, the system comprising: at least one computer comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one computer configured to: obtain a power monitoring signal by measuring an electrical property of a power line in the building, wherein the power line provides power to the devices in the building, including a first device, a second device, and a third device; determine a state of the first device by (1) processing a first power event the power monitoring signal with a plurality of power models to generate a score for each power model of the plurality of power models, and (2) selecting a state of the first device from a plurality of possible states for the first device using the scores; receive first network data from a server computer, wherein the server computer transmitted the first network data based on information received from the second device; determine, using the first network data, that the first network data corresponds to the second device; and select, using the first network data, a state of the third device from a plurality of possible states for the third device.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one computer is configured to transmit the state of the first device to a second server computer.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the power monitoring signal indicates a current or voltage of the power line.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one computer is configured to select the state of the third device by: processing a second power event in the power monitoring signal with the plurality of power models to generate a second score for each power model of the plurality of power models; and selecting the state of the third device using the second scores and the information in the first network data.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one computer is configured to: obtain information about power consumption of the third device from a data store of device information using the state of the third device; and transmit the information about the power consumption of the third device to a user device.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one computer is configured to: transmit the state of the first device and the state of the third device to a user device.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one computer comprises a power monitor installed in the building and a second server computer with a network connection to the power monitor.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein: the second server computer is configured to determine that a user device has a network connection with the second server computer; the second server computer is configured to send an indication to the power monitor that the user device has a network connection with the second server computer; and the power monitor is configured to modify its processing in response to receiving the indication.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the power monitor is configured to modify its processing by changing a frequency of polling devices.
19. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable media comprising computer executable instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to perform actions comprising: obtaining a power monitoring signal by measuring an electrical property of a power line in a building, wherein the power line provides power to devices in the building, including a first device, a second device, and a third device; determining a state of the first device by (1) processing a first power event in the power monitoring signal with a plurality of power models to generate a score for each power model of the plurality of power models, and (2) selecting a state of the first device from a plurality of possible states for the first device using the scores; receiving a first network packet, wherein the first network packet was transmitted by the second device; determining, using information in the first network packet, that the first network packet was transmitted by the second device; and selecting, using the information in the first network packet, a state of the third device from a plurality of possible states for the third device.
20. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 19, the actions comprising transmitting, to a server computer, information about the state of the first device and the state of the third device.
21. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein the plurality of power models comprises one or more of a device model, a transition model, or a wattage model.
22. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein determining that the first network packet was transmitted by the second device comprises using a network address or identifier in the first network packet.
23. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 19, wherein processing the first power event in the power monitoring signal with the plurality of power models comprises: computing a plurality of features using a portion of the power monitoring signal comprising the first power event; and processing the plurality of features with the plurality of power models.
</claims>
</document>
