<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F13/285,A63F13/31,A63F13/44,A63F13/537,A63F13/54,A63F13/58,A63F13/86,A63F9/24,G06N3/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLACK, GLENN
TAYLOR, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67476307
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vector-space framework for evaluating gameplay content in a game environment
</title>

<abstract>
A media system employs techniques to create a framework for evaluating gameplay content in a vector-space. These techniques include monitoring frames for content streams that correspond to gameplay in a game environment, determining feature-values for features associated with the frames, mapping the content streams to position vectors in the vector-space based on the feature-values, and assigning a set of position vectors in the vector-space to an area in the game environment based on a relative proximity of the set of position vectors in the vector-space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for evaluating gameplay content in game environments, the method comprising: storing information in memory regarding a vector-space that corresponds to a game environment; monitoring frames of each of a plurality of content streams that correspond to gameplay in the game environment; determining a set of feature-values for features associated with the frames for each of the content streams, wherein one of the features corresponds to a dimension in the vector-space and another of the features corresponds to a different dimension in the vector-space; mapping the plurality of content streams to position vectors in the vector-space based on the respective set of feature-values for each content stream when the respective set of feature-values satisfies a threshold; and assigning a set of the position vectors in the vector-space to an area in the game environment based on a proximity between the set of the position vectors in the vector-space.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting at least a portion of the content streams mapped to the position vectors in the set of position vectors.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one feature includes a gameplay transition in the game environment, and further comprising selecting a plurality of the monitored frames for at least one content stream based on one or more feature-values for the gameplay transition.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one feature includes a gameplay transition in the game environment, and further comprising: selecting a first set of the monitored frames to form a first gameplay transition for at least one content stream based on one or more feature-values for the gameplay transition; selecting a second set of the monitored frames to form a second gameplay transition for the at least one content stream based on the feature-values for the gameplay transition; and combining the first set of frames and the second set of frames to form the at least one content stream.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold is a threshold transition time, and further comprising determining gameplay transition times for the content streams based on the respective set of feature-values for the features associated with the frames, wherein the content streams are mapped to the position vectors when the gameplay transition times satisfy the threshold transition time.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the threshold transition time includes one of a mean time, a median time, or a total time.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the threshold is a threshold gameplay metric, and wherein the plurality of content streams are mapped to the position vectors when the feature-values associated with the frames satisfy the threshold gameplay metric.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the threshold gameplay metric is one of a gameplay transition time, a gameplay status, a number of points, an inventory, a character selection, a health of a character, a sound, a color palette, a level, a position, or a gameplay milestone.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the set of position vectors correspond to the area in the game environment based on the proximity there-between in the vector-space.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the features include one or more of a gameplay status, points, an inventory, a health of a character, a sound, a color palette, a time, a level, a position, or a gameplay milestone.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the area in the game environment defines one or more locations in the game environment, and further comprising: monitoring a user frame for a user stream that corresponds to the game environment, the user frame is associated with the features; mapping the user stream to a user vector in the vector-space based on feature-values for the features associated with the user frame; determining a user location in the game environment based on a proximity between the user vector and the set of position vectors in the vector-space; and presenting the user location in the game environment.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising presenting at least a portion of one content stream mapped to the set of position vectors.
13. A system for evaluating gameplay content in game environments, the system comprising: memory that stores information regarding a vector-space that corresponds to a game environment; a network interface to communicate over one or more communication networks; and a processor coupled to the network interface and that executes instructions stored in memory, wherein execution of the instructions by the processor: monitors frames of each of a plurality of content streams that correspond to gameplay in the game environment; determines a set of feature-values for features associated with the frames for each of the content streams, wherein one of the features corresponds to a dimension in the vector-space and another of the features corresponds to a different dimension in the vector-space; maps the plurality of content streams to position vectors in the vector-space based on the respective set of feature-values for each content stream when the respective set of feature-values satisfy a threshold; and assigns a set of the position vectors in the vector-space to an area in the game environment based on a proximity between the set of the position vectors in the vector-space.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor executes further instructions to present at least a portion of the content streams mapped to the position vectors in the set of position vectors.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein at least one feature includes a gameplay transition in the game environment, and wherein the processor executes further instructions to select a plurality of the monitored frames for at least one content stream based on feature-values for the gameplay transition.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the threshold is a threshold gameplay metric, and wherein the processor executes the instructions to map the content streams to the position vectors when the set of feature-values associated with the frames satisfy the threshold gameplay metric.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the threshold gameplay metric is a threshold gameplay transition time, and wherein the processor executes further instructions to determine gameplay transition times for the content streams based on the feature-values for the features associated with the frames.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the area in the game environment defines one or more locations in the game environment, wherein the processor executes further instructions to: monitor a user frame for a user stream that corresponds to the game environment, the user frame is associated with the set of features; map the user stream to a user vector in the vector-space based on feature-values for the set of features associated with the user frame; determine a user location in the game environment based on a proximity between the user vector and at least one position vector in the set of position vectors in the vector-space; and present the user location in the game environment.
19. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium, having instructions encoded thereon, the instructions executable by a processor to evaluate gameplay content in game environments, the method comprising: storing information in memory regarding a vector-space that corresponds to a game environment; monitoring frames of each of a plurality of content streams that correspond to gameplay in the game environment; determining a set of feature-values for features associated with the frames for each of the content streams, wherein one of the features corresponds to a dimension in the vector-space and another of the features corresponds to a different dimension in the vector-space; mapping the plurality of content streams to position vectors in the vector-space based on the respective set of feature-values for each content stream when the respective set of feature-values satisfy a threshold; and assigning a set of the position vectors in the vector-space to an area in the game environment based on a proximity between the set of the position vectors in the vector-space.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the threshold is a threshold transition time, and further comprising instructions executable by the processor to determine gameplay transition times for the content streams based on the set of feature-values for the features associated with the frames, wherein the instructions to map the content streams to the position vectors are executable when the gameplay transition times satisfy the threshold transition time.
</claims>
</document>
