<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F17/30,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
WAL-MART STORES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHAN, KANNAN
KUMAR, SUSHANT
NAG, KAUSHIKI
RAPAKA, VENKATA SYAM PRAKASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62980695
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for automated recommendations
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, the method can comprise receiving one or more clicks on one or more items by a user during a browse session, measuring a distance between the one or more items, and determining a relationship between the one or more items based at least in part on the distance. In various embodiments, the method can further comprise clustering the one or more items based at least in part on the relationship into one or more clusters and presenting to the user a recommendation. In a number of embodiments, the recommendation can comprise at least one of one or more search terms related to at least one cluster of the one or more clusters or a set of items related to the at least one cluster of the one or more clusters, the set of items comprising at least a portion of the one or more items. Other embodiments of related methods and systems are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processing modules; and one or more non-transitory storage modules storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processing modules and perform: receiving two or more clicks on two or more items by a user during a browse session; measuring a distance between the two or more items; determining a relationship between the two or more items based at least in part on the distance; clustering the two or more items based at least in part on the relationship into two or more clusters; after the user has returned to a homepage indicating an end to the browse session, automatically presenting to the user a recommendation for a new browse session, the recommendation comprising at least one of: one or more search terms related to at least one cluster of the two or more clusters; or a set of items related to the at least one cluster of the two or more clusters, the set of items comprising at least a portion of the two or more items; and receiving from the user a new search in the new browse session based on the recommendation.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more non-transitory storage modules storing the computing instructions are configured to run on the one or more processing modules and further perform: updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the new search.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more non-transitory storage modules storing the computing instructions are configured to run on the one or more processing modules and further perform: evaluating a past history of one or more past actions of the user in a previous browse session; and updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the past history of the one or more past actions of the user.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein: the one or more past actions comprise at least one of: one or more other search queries by the user; two or more item clicks by the user; two or more items added-to-cart by the user; or two or more item purchases by the user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more non-transitory storage modules storing the computing instructions are configured to run on the one or more processing modules and further perform: evaluating a user profile of the user; and updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the user profile of the user.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein: the user profile comprises a past history of the user, the past history comprising at least one of: a browse history; a search history; a purchase history; an item add-to-cart history; or an item click history.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more non-transitory storage modules storing the computing instructions are configured to run on the one or more processing modules and further perform: determining that a number of clicks meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold before presenting to the user the recommendation.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein when the recommendation comprises the one or more search terms: the one or more search terms comprise a new search query or a new search topic.
9. A method comprising: receiving two or more clicks on two or more items by a user during a browse session; measuring a distance between the two or more items; determining a relationship between the two or more items based at least in part on the distance; clustering the two or more items based at least in part on the relationship into two or more clusters; after the user has returned to a homepage indicating an end to the browse session, automatically presenting to the user a recommendation for a new browse session, the recommendation comprising at least one of: one or more search terms related to at least one cluster of the two or more clusters; or a set of items related to the at least one cluster of the two or more clusters, the set of items comprising at least a portion of the two or more items; and receiving from the user a new search in the new browse session based on the recommendation.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the new search.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: evaluating a past history of one or more past actions of the user in a previous browse session; and updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the past history of the one or more past actions of the user.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein: the one or more past actions comprise at least one of: one or more other search queries by the user; two or more item clicks by the user; two or more items added-to-cart by the user; or two or more item purchases by the user.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: evaluating a user profile of the user; and updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the user profile of the user.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein: the user profile comprises a past history of the user, the past history comprising at least one of: a browse history; a search history; a purchase history; an item add-to-cart history; or an item click history.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining that a number of clicks meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold before presenting to the user the recommendation.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the recommendation further comprises: the one or more search terms comprise a new search query or a new search topic.
17. The method of claim 9, further comprising: updating a user profile when the user clicks on the recommendation.
18. A method comprising: receiving two or more clicks on two or more items by a user during a browse session; updating a user profile of the user based at least in part on the two or more clicks on the two or more items by the user; clustering the two or more items based at least in part on a relationship into two or more clusters by: measuring a distance between the two or more items; and determining the relationship between the two or more items based at least in part on the distance; after the user has returned to a homepage indicating an end to the browse session, automatically presenting to a user one or more search terms related to a cluster of items for a new browse session, which are based at least in part on the relationship; updating the user profile of the user again when the user clicks on at least one of the one or more search terms; and receiving from the user a new search in the new browse session based on at least the one or more search terms.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising: evaluating a past history of one or more past actions of the user in a previous browse session; and updating the two or more clusters based at least in part on the past history of the one or more past actions of the user, wherein: the one or more past actions comprise at least one of: one or more other search queries by the user; two or more item clicks by the user; two or more items added-to-cart by the user; or two or more item purchases by the user; and the user profile comprises a past history of the user, the past history comprising at least one of: a browse history; a search history; a purchase history; an item add-to-cart history; or an item click history.
20. The method of claim 18, further comprising: determining that a number of clicks meets or exceeds a predetermined threshold before presenting to the user the recommendation.
</claims>
</document>
