<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06N3/04,G06N5/00,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BEIJING BAIDU NETCOM SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU KAI
LIU, HAO
LYU, YAJUAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59985418
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Artificial intelligence based method and apparatus for pushing news
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure discloses an artificial intelligence based method and apparatus for pushing news. A specific embodiment of the method includes: determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news; extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects; generating, for each of the news subjects, a subject tag based on the extracted text fragment through a deep learning method; and pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag. This embodiment may improve the effectiveness of news pushing.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An artificial intelligence based method for pushing news, the method comprising: determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news; extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects; generating, for each of the news subjects, a subject tag based on the extracted text fragment through a deep learning method; and pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag, wherein the extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects comprises: for the each of the news subjects, matching clauses in the news text respectively with the news subject; for a clause not matched with the news subject in the news text, determining whether the clause contains a pronoun; and when the clause contains a pronoun, determining the news subject corresponding to the pronoun using anaphora resolution and extracting the clause as the text fragment associated with the news subject corresponding to the contained pronoun.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news comprises: matching the news text with a preset subject keyword; and determining at least one news subject based on the matched subject keyword.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects comprises: extracting a matched clause as a text fragment associated with the news subject.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag comprises: generating a page for news pushing by uniting the subject tag of the at least one news subject and the news text of the to-be-pushed news.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag comprises: matching a personalized tag of a user with the at least one news subject; and pushing the to-be-pushed news to the user, in response to matching at least one of the at least one news subject with the personalized tag of the user; wherein the personalized tag is generated through a following method: acquiring an article posted by the user; and determining an article subject from the article posted by the user as the personalized tag.
6. An artificial intelligence based apparatus for pushing news, the apparatus comprising: at least one processor; and a memory storing instructions, the instructions when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news; extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects; generating, for each of the news subjects, a subject tag based on the extracted text fragment through a deep learning method; and pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag, wherein the extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects comprises: for the each of the news subjects, matching clauses in the news text respectively with the news subject; for a clause not matched with the news subject in the news text, determining whether the clause contains a pronoun; and when the clause contains a pronoun, determining the news subject corresponding to the pronoun using anaphora resolution and extracting the clause as the text fragment associated with the news subject corresponding to the contained pronoun.
7. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news comprises: matching the news text with a preset subject keyword; and determining at least one news subject based on the matched subject keyword.
8. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects comprises: extracting a matched clause as a text fragment associated with the news subject.
9. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag comprises: generating a page for news pushing by uniting the subject tag of the at least one news subject and the news text of the to-be-pushed news.
10. The apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag comprises: matching a personalized tag of a user with the at least one news subject; and pushing the to-be-pushed news to the user, in response to matching at least one of the at least one news subject with the personalized tag of the user; wherein the personalized tag is generated through a following method: acquiring an article posted by the user; and determining an article subject from the article posted by the user as the personalized tag.
11. A non-transitory computer storage medium storing a computer program, the computer program when executed by one or more processors, causes the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining at least one news subject from a news text of to-be-pushed news; extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects; generating, for each of the news subjects, a subject tag based on the extracted text fragment through a deep learning method; and pushing the to-be-pushed news based on the at least one news subject and the generated subject tag, wherein the extracting, from the news text, text fragments respectively associated with news subjects comprises: for the each of the news subjects, matching clauses in the news text respectively with the news subject; for a clause not matched with the news subject in the news text, determining whether the clause contains a pronoun; and when the clause contains a pronoun, determining the news subject corresponding to the pronoun using anaphora resolution and extracting the clause as the text fragment associated with the news subject corresponding to the contained pronoun.
</claims>
</document>
