<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/04,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W24/00,H04W24/06,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROHDE & SCHWARZ & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ROMAN, MIGUEL ANGEL
GONZALEZ, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61188631
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and test system for mobile network testing as well as prediction system
</title>

<abstract>
A method for mobile network testing is described wherein at least one testing device is used that is configured to be connected to a mobile network. A predefined set of test procedures is run on the at least one testing device in order to obtain binary test results assigned to at least one test parameter. The binary test results of the test procedures are evaluated via a machine learning model. The machine learning model is trained to predict the probability of at least one binary test result based on the binary test results obtained. Further, a test system, a method for mobile network testing as well as a prediction system are described.
</abstract>

<claims>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or priviilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A method for mobile network testing by using at least one testing device configured to be connected to a mobile network as well as a processing unit, comprising: running a predefined set of test procedures on the at least one testing device in order to obtain binary test results assigned to at least one test parameter corresponding to at least one network key performance indicator, wherein the test procedures running on the at least one testing device simulate the behavior of participants of the mobile network with regard to at least one service; evaluating by the processing unit the binary test results of the test procedures received from the at least one testing device, wherein a machine learning model is used for evaluating purposes, the machine learning model being provided by a neural network; and training by the processing unit the machine learning model to predict the probability of at least one binary test result assigned to the quality of a respective service, wherein the training is based on the binary test results obtained by recognizing relationships and/or correlations between different data and/or information of the test parameter, wherein the training of the machine learning model is performed by using a series of test parameters together with the resulting binary test results assigned to the quality of the respective service as input parameters for the machine learning model.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein calls, web browsing, video playing and/or downloads are simulated.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained to predict the probability of several binary test results based on the at least one test parameter.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is trained to predict statistical information.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the test parameters are investigated over time and/or wherein geographical information is taken into account.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one test parameter corresponds network key performance indicators assigned to availability, health and/or performance.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the at least one test parameter corresponds to a voice call and/or data access, and/or wherein the at least one network key performance indicator corresponds to a drop call status, a fail call status, a video rebuffering status, data service accessibility, signal strength, signal to noise ratio, an interference ratio, latency, round trip time, jitter, bandwidth, throughput, failure rate, signal level and/or rebuffering.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the test results are evaluated on the testing device itself and/or wherein the test results are forwarded to a separate evaluation unit that evaluates the test results.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the machine learning model is provided by a feed-forward neural network.
10. A prediction system for predicting the probability of at least one binary test result, comprising a processing unit configured to run a machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model is trained by a method according to claim 1 or wherein the prediction system is configured to: perform a single test on the at least one testing device; forward the test result of the single test and the at least one test parameter assigned to the test result to the prediction system for evaluating the test result; and obtain a prediction regarding the probability of at least one binary test result from the prediction system, wherein the binary test results corresponding to test results classified into two groups on the basis of a classification rule.
11. A test system for mobile network testing, comprising at least one testing device and a processing unit configured to run a machine learning model to be trained, wherein the processing unit is configured to receive binary test results of a set of test procedures run on the at least one testing device, wherein the binary test results are assigned to at least one test parameter corresponding to at least one network key performance indicator, and wherein the processing unit is configured to evaluate the binary test results received from the at least one testing device, wherein the machine learning model is used for evaluating purposes, wherein the test procedures running on the at least one testing device simulate the behavior of participants of the mobile network with regard to at least one service, wherein the processing unit is configured to train the machine learning model to predict the probability of at least one binary test result assigned to the quality of a respective service based on the test results obtained by recognizing relationships and/or correlations between different data and/or information of the test parameter, and wherein the training of the machine learning model is performed by using a series of test parameters together with the resulting binary test results assigned to the quality of the respective service as input parameters for the machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model is provided by a neural network.
12. The test system according to claim 11, wherein the test system is configured to: run a predefined set of test procedures on the at least one testing device in order to obtain the binary test results assigned to the at least one test parameter.
13. A method for mobile network testing by using at least one testing device configured to be connected to a mobile network as well as a processing unit, the method comprising: providing a prediction system configured to predict the probability of at least one binary test result by running a trained machine learning model, wherein the machine learning model was trained by: running a predefined set of test procedures on at least one testing device in order to obtain binary test results assigned to at least one test parameter corresponding to at least one network key performance indicator, wherein the test procedures running on the at least one testing device simulate the behavior of participants of the mobile network with regard to at least one service; evaluating by the processing unit the binary test results of the test procedures received from the at least one testing device, wherein the machine learning model is used for evaluating purposes, the machine learning model being provided by a neural network; and training by the processing unit the machine learning model to predict the probability of at least one binary test result assigned to the quality of a respective service, wherein the training is based on the binary test results obtained by recognizing relationships and/or correlations between different data and/or information of the test parameter, wherein the training of the machine learning model is performed by using a series of test parameters together with the resulting binary test results assigned to the quality of the respective service as input parameters for the machine learning model, performing a single test on the at least one testing device, wherein the single test running on the at least one testing device simulates the behavior of participants of the mobile network with regard to a certain service; forwarding the test result of the single test and the at least one test parameter assigned to the test result to the machine learning model of the prediction system for evaluating the test result, wherein the at least one test parameter corresponds to at least one network key performance indicator; and obtaining from the prediction system a prediction regarding the probability of at least one binary test result.
14. The method according to claim 13, wherein predictions regarding the probability of several binary test results are obtained from the prediction system.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the prediction system predicts the probability of binary test results assigned to different test parameters.
</claims>
</document>
