<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0484,G06F40/166,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SNAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREOU, JACOB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68063991
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generation, curation, and presentation of media collections with automated advertising
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, media, instructions, and methods for computer based automated content generation, curation, and presentation are described. In one embodiment a content collection is generated with a first continuous presentation group by associating a first content element from a first content message of the plurality of content messages and a second content element from a second content message of the plurality of content messages to associate the first content element and the second content element as the first continuous presentation group. Advertising element placement within the presentation order for the first media collection is determined, and adjusted to avoid interrupting the continuous presentation group. In other embodiments, various advertising patterns are used and adjusted based on curated presentation groups within content collections.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, at a server computer, a first plurality of content messages from a plurality of content sources, the first plurality of content messages comprising a plurality of media content elements, the first plurality of content messages comprising a first content message and a second content message, the first content message comprising a first media content element and the second content message comprising a second content element; generating a presentation order for the plurality of media content elements of first plurality of content messages; generating a first continuous presentation group by associating the first media content element and the second media content element, the presentation order comprising the first continuous presentation group; determining advertising element placement within the presentation order, the advertising element placement being based on the first continuous presentation group in the presentation order; generating an adjusted presentation order by adjusting placement of a first advertising element within the presentation order based on the determined advertising element placement; and causing the plurality of media content elements and the first advertising element to be displayed based on the adjusted presentation order on a plurality of client devices.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, from a first client device, a first request associated with a first media collection comprising the plurality of content messages; and communicating a plurality of content elements from the plurality of content messages and at least the first advertising element using the adjusted presentation order.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: receiving, at the server computer, a second plurality of content messages, the second plurality of content messages comprising second media content elements associated with at least the first media collection; updating the presentation order associated with the first media collection following receipt of the second plurality of content messages to generate a second presentation order using the plurality of content messages and the second plurality of content messages; and updating advertising element placement within the second presentation order based at least in part on the continuous presentation group to generate a second adjusted presentation order.
4. The method of claim 3 further comprising: receiving, from a second client device, a second request associated with the first media collection; and communicating the plurality of content elements from the plurality of content messages, the second plurality of content elements from the second plurality of content messages, and at least the first advertising element using the second adjusted presentation order.
5. The method of claim 1 wherein determining advertising element placement comprises periodically inserting an advertising element between content elements following a set number of content elements.
6. The method of claim 1 wherein determining advertising element placement comprises determining a display time associated with each content element of the plurality of content elements; and periodically inserting an advertising element between content elements as ordered in the presentation order following a threshold display time amount.
7. The method of claim 6 wherein adjusting placement of the first advertising element within the presentation order based on the association between the first content element and the second content element as the continuous presentation group to generate the adjusted presentation order comprises: determining a position associated with the threshold display time within the continuous presentation group; and placing the first advertising element in the updated presentation order based on the position of the threshold display time within the continuous presentation group.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein adjusting placement of the first advertising element within the presentation order based on the association between the first content element and the second content element as the continuous presentation group to generate the adjusted presentation order comprises shifting placement of the first advertising element to follow the continuous presentation group.
9. The method of claim 1 wherein adjusting placement of the first advertising element within the presentation order based on the association between the first content element and the second content element as the continuous presentation group to generate the adjusted presentation order comprises shifting placement of the first advertising element to precede the continuous presentation group.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein generating the presentation order comprises: analyzing each of the plurality of content messages to determine a quality score for each of the plurality of content messages; storing each of the plurality of content messages in a database along with the quality score for each of the plurality of content messages; and generating the presentation order automatically based on the quality score for each of the plurality of content messages.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein generating the presentation order and the first continuous presentation group further comprises: receiving, from an operator device, a threshold percentage for a media collection associated with the first continuous presentation group; determining a subset of the plurality of content messages associated with the media collection to be made available to the operator device based on the threshold percentage received from the operator device and the quality score for each of the plurality of content messages; causing only the subset of the plurality of content messages associated with the media collection to be displayed on the operator device for the media collection; and receiving, from the operator device, the presentation order for the first plurality of messages of the first media collection and identifiers associated with the first continuous presentation group.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein analyzing each of the plurality of content messages to determine a quality score for each of the plurality of content messages is based on at least one factor from a group comprising: explicit content likelihood, underexposure, overexposure, noise level, shakiness, blurriness, low quality compression, audio quality, areas within and event, and content messages that are all black and white.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first media collection is associated with a geolocation, an event, a metadata topic, or a common user interest value.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the media content comprises a photograph content element from first client device of the plurality of client devices and a video content element from a second client device of the plurality of client devices.
15. A communication system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors coupled to the memory, the one or more processors configured to: receive a first plurality of content messages from a plurality of content sources, the first plurality of content messages comprising a plurality of media content elements, the first plurality of content messages comprising a first content message and a second content message, the first content message comprising a first media content element and the second content message comprising a second content element; generate a presentation order for the plurality of media content elements of first plurality of content messages; generate a first continuous presentation group by associating the first media content element and the second media content element, the presentation order comprising the first continuous presentation group; determine advertising element placement within the presentation, the advertising element placement being based on the first continuous presentation group in the presentation order; generate an adjusted presentation order by automatically adjusting placement of a first advertising element within the presentation order based on the determined advertising element placement; and cause the plurality of media content elements and the first advertising element to be displayed based on the adjusted presentation order on a plurality of client devices.
16. The system of claim 15 further comprising: communication input and output (I/O) hardware coupled to the one or more processors and configured to: receive, from a first client device, a first request associated with a first media collection; and communicate a plurality of content elements from the plurality of content messages and at least the first advertising element using the adjusted presentation order.
17. The system of claim 15 wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine advertising element placement by inserting an advertising element after a segmenting content element associated with a threshold number of content elements since a preceding advertising element and a display time associated with preceding content elements since the previous advertising element.
18. The system of claim 15 wherein adjusting placement of the first advertising element within the presentation order comprises shifting placement of the first advertising element to follow the continuous presentation group when the segmenting content element is within the continuous presentation group.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions stored thereon that are executable by at least one processor to cause a computing device to: receive a first plurality of content messages from a plurality of content sources, the first plurality of content messages comprising a plurality of media content elements, the first plurality of content messages comprising a first content message and a second content message, the first content message comprising a first media content element and the second content message comprising a second content element; generate a presentation order for the plurality of media content elements of first plurality of content messages; generate a first continuous presentation group by associating the first media content element and the second media content element, the presentation order comprising the first continuous presentation group; determine advertising element placement within the presentation, the advertising element placement being based on the first continuous presentation group in the presentation order; generate an adjusted presentation order by automatically adjusting placement of a first advertising element within the presentation order based on the determined advertising element placement; and cause the plurality of media content elements and the first advertising element to be displayed based on the adjusted presentation order on a plurality of client devices.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium 19 further comprising instructions stored thereon that are executable by the processor to cause the computing device to: display at least a portion of a plurality of content elements associated with the plurality of content messages on an output display of the computing device; receive one or more user inputs selecting the presentation order and generating the first continuous presentation group; generate a first database entry comprising content elements selected by the one or more user inputs and the first advertising element as structured within the adjusted presentation order; and respond to a media collection request from a first client device using the first database entry.
</claims>
</document>
