<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06Q10/08,G06Q20/20,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MORAN, TIMOTHY M.
QUENK, JANE E.
MCLELLAN, CHARLES P.
GLAIR, DOUGLAS PAUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57609034
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method of providing identity verification services
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method of validating an upgrade of authentication credentials includes authenticating a first user being associated with a first entity, receiving input identifying a customer name for the online account, receiving input indicating a type of identification to be presented at the validation event, receiving input indicating a transaction code associated with the validation event, and receiving input indicating a location of the validation event, and further includes authenticating a second user being associated with a second entity, providing to the second user a list of validation events for a location, receiving input selecting a validation event in the list of validation events, presenting one or more of the customer name, transaction code, and type of identification associated with the selected validation event, and receiving input indicating a result of the validation event, where a credential or token is created and assigned based on the validation event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer assisted method of generating authentication credentials, the method comprising: receiving, from a first user, via a computing system including a network, a customer identifier for an online account and a location of a validation event; receiving real-time geographic coordinates of a location for a second user computing system corresponding to a mobile second user while the mobile second user is traversing a preassigned route; providing, based on the received real-time geographic coordinates, a notification to the mobile second user at a time when the second user computing system is at the location of the validation event; receiving, from the mobile second user, input indicating a result of the validation event; and creating an electronic credential or token for the first user based on the received input for the validation event.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising presenting a barcode associated with the validation event, wherein the input indicating a result comprises the barcode, and wherein the barcode encodes certain information about the customer including a customer name and a physical residential address or a physical business address.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the mobile second user is a person employed by or an agent of a service business; and further comprising: presenting, to the first user, one or more attributes of the online account; receiving, from the first user, input indicating at least a partial address of the service business; presenting, to the first user, one or more service business locations within a geographic proximity of the partial address; and receiving, from the first user, input selecting one of the one or more service business locations.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising changing a level of assurance to a predetermined level when the credential or token for the first user is created.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the received real-time geographic coordinates of the second user computing system during the preassigned route of the mobile second user are used as data to confirm the validity of the upgrade of authentication credentials corresponding to the validation event.
6. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising determining, based on geo-location information of the second user computing system, whether the mobile second user is at a location on the second user's preassigned route.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the notification to the mobile second user comprises presenting one or more of the customer identifier and a transaction code associated with the selected validation event to the mobile second user.
8. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising providing one or more validation events to the mobile computing device of the mobile second user on a daily basis before the mobile second user begins the preassigned route.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the location of the validation event is one of a service business facility, a business address of a customer or a residential address of the customer.
10. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising determining whether the mobile second user is at a location on the second user's preassigned route within a predetermined window of time.
11. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising validating the first user at an initial level of assurance, wherein a customer name and a physical residential or business address are provided.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed if an online verification process is not successful.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user sets an appointment date and timeframe window for the validation event.
14. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising sending an alert to the first user when the second user is within a predetermined timeframe of arriving based at least on the received real-time geographic coordinates.
15. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising sending an activation email having an activation link to an email address of the first user, wherein the activation link needs to be selected to complete the upgrade of authentication credentials.
16. The method of claim 1, additionally comprising purging predetermined customer information obtained in conjunction with the validation event after creating the electronic credential or token.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the validation event includes in-person identity proofing of the customer.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving from the first user comprises the first user being authenticated at a government defined level of assurance of level one.
19. A system for validating an upgrade of authentication credentials, the system comprising: a networked computing device including one or more processors operably configured to access one or more storages, wherein the one or more processors is operably configured to: receive, from a first user, using a first user computing device, input identifying a customer identifier for an online account and a location of a validation event; a mobile computing device corresponding to a mobile second user, the mobile computing device operably configured to: receive a validation event including the location for the first user; receive real-time geographic coordinates of a location of the mobile second user when the mobile second user is traversing a preassigned route; determine whether the mobile second user is at a location on the second user's preassigned route within a predetermined window of time; provide a notification to the mobile second user when the second user computing device is at the location of the validation event; indicate a result of the validation event; and create an electronic credential or token for the first user based on the result of the validation event.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the electronic credential or token corresponds with a mobile computing device of the first user.
21. The system of claim 19, wherein the mobile computing device is further operably configured to present, to the mobile second user, the customer identifier when the second user computing device is at the location of the validation event.
22. The system of claim 19, additionally comprising a networked server configured to provide one or more validation events to the mobile computing device of the mobile second user on a daily basis before the mobile second user begins the preassigned route.
23. The system of claim 19, wherein the location of the validation event is one of a service business facility, a business address of a customer or a residential address of the customer.
</claims>
</document>
