<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/783,G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N5/04,G06T7/20,G08B13/196,H04N19/176,H04N19/70,H04N21/234
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSORMATIC ELECTRONICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAM, IRENE
TRANI; JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58692568
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for monitoring a premises based on parsed codec data
</title>

<abstract>
This document describes a monitoring system for detecting conditions at a physical premises. The monitoring system can receive, by a computing system, from a video sensor system deployed at the physical premises, block-based encoded video data encoded with a block-based encoder in the video sensor system. The monitoring system can parse, by the computing system, the block-based encoded video data to extract from the block-based encoded data macroblock arrays that correspond to areas of a frame of video data. The monitoring system can reduce, by the computing system, the macroblock arrays to one or more data clusters. The monitoring system can apply, by the computing system, a pattern recognition algorithm to the one or more data clusters to detect patterns in the one or more data clusters.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a computing system, from a video sensor system deployed at a physical premises, compressed video data that is encoded and compressed by a block-based encoder in the video sensor system; parsing, by the computing system, the compressed video data to extract one or more macroblock arrays that correspond to areas of a frame of the compressed video data, the one or more macroblock arrays comprising motion vector data and color vector data; applying, by the computing system, a cluster analysis to reduce the one or more macroblock arrays parsed from the compressed video data to cluster data; aggregating, by the computing system, the cluster data over a series of frames; identifying, by the computing system, one or more first segments of the cluster data associated with first changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data less than a predefined amount and one or more second segments of the cluster data associated with second changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data greater than the predefined amount; truncating and concatenating, by the computing system, the cluster data to remove the one or more first segments and retain the one or more second segments; applying, by the computing system, a pattern recognition algorithm to the cluster data to detect one or more irregularities in the cluster data; determining, by the computing system, whether the one or more irregularities correspond to an occurrence of one or more events at the physical premises by: identifying a time that the motion vector data indicates the one or more events have occurred; and analyzing the color vector data at the time to determine that the color vector data confirms that the one or more events have occurred at the time; and when the one or more events are determined, applying, by the computing system, the one or more events to a rules engine to determine a response to the one or more events.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing system is part of an intrusion detection system, wherein the rules engine executes one or more rules to detect an intrusion into a premises monitored by the computing system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the response is an alert and the method further comprises: generating the alert based on the one or more events; and sending the alert to a user device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise inter-prediction motion prediction vectors.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise intra-prediction motion prediction modes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise color transform data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein applying, by the computing system, the cluster analysis to reduce the one or more macroblock arrays comprises: applying one or more of a principal component analysis and a factor analysis to generated statistical data that is used by the computing system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein applying, by the computing system, the pattern recognition algorithm comprises applying an artificial neural network pattern recognition algorithm.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the compressed video data is compressed using one of an H.264 codec and an H.265 codec.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise macroblock density data.
11. An intrusion detection system for detecting conditions at a physical premises, the system comprising: one or more camera sensors deployed at the physical premises; and a central monitoring station, the central monitoring station comprising a data processing system configured to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a video sensor system deployed at the physical premises, compressed video data that is encoded by a block-based encoder in the video sensor system; parsing the compressed video data to extract from the compressed video data, one or more macroblock arrays that correspond to areas of a frame of the compressed video data, the one or more macroblock arrays comprising motion vector data and color vector data; applying a cluster analysis to the one or more macroblock arrays to reduce the one or more macroblock arrays to cluster data; aggregating the cluster data over a series of frames; identifying one or more first segments of the cluster data associated with first changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data less than a predefined amount and one or more second segments of the cluster data associated with second changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data greater than the predefined amount; truncating and concatenating the cluster data to remove the one or more first segments and retain the one or more second segments; applying a pattern recognition algorithm to the cluster data to detect one or more irregularities in the cluster data; determining whether the one or more irregularities correspond to an occurrence of one or more events at the physical premises by: identifying a time that the motion vector data indicates the one or more events have occurred; and analyzing the color vector data at the time to determine that the color vector data confirms that the one or more events have occurred at the time; and applying the one or more events to a rules engine to determine a response to the one or more events.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein applying the one or more events to the rules engine comprises detecting an intrusion with rules.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the response is an alert; wherein and the operations further comprise: generating the alert based on the one or more events; and sending the alert to a user device.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise inter-prediction motion prediction vectors.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise intra-prediction motion prediction modes.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the one or more macroblock arrays comprise color transform data.
17. The system of claim 11, wherein applying the cluster analysis to the one or more macroblock arrays to reduce the one or more macroblock arrays to the cluster data comprises: applying one or more of principal component analysis and factor analysis.
18. The system of claim 11, wherein applying the pattern recognition algorithm comprises applying an artificial neural network pattern recognition algorithm.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the compressed video data is compressed using one of an H.264 codec and an H.265 codec.
20. One or more machine readable hardware storage devices storing instructions that are executed by one or more processing devices of a data processing system to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a video sensor system deployed at a physical premises, block-based encoded video data; parsing the block-based encoded video data to extract one or more macroblock arrays that correspond to areas of a frame of video data, the one or more macroblock arrays comprising motion vector data and color vector data; applying a cluster analysis to reduce the one or more macroblock arrays to cluster data; aggregating the cluster data over a series of frames; identifying one or more first segments of the cluster data associated with first changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data less than a predefined amount and one or more second segments of the cluster data associated with second changes in the motion vector data and the color vector data greater than the predefined amount; truncating and concatenating the cluster data to remove the one or more first segments and retain the one or more second segments; applying a pattern recognition algorithm to the cluster data to detect one or more irregularities in the cluster data; determining whether the one or more irregularities correspond to an occurrence of one or more events at the physical premises by: identifying a time that the motion vector data indicates the one or more events have occurred; and analyzing the color vector data at the time to determine that the color vector data confirms that the one or more events have occurred at the time; and when the one or more events are determined, applying the one or more events to a rules engine to determine a response to the one or more events.
</claims>
</document>
