<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63B102/02,A63B102/18,A63B102/20,A63B102/32,A63B24/00,A63B71/06,G01S13/58,G06K9/00,G06T11/60,G06T7/246,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RAPSODO
</assignee>

<inventors>
OKUR, BATUHAN
ZHANG, BOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516244
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Object trajectory simulation
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include receiving a group of images taken by a camera over time in an environment, in which the camera may be oriented within the environment to capture images of an object in a substantially same direction as a launch direction of the object, and the group of images including a first image and a second image. The method may further include: identifying a first position of the object in the first image; identifying a second position of the object in the second image; generating a flight vector based on the first position of the object and the second position of the object; and determining one or more flight parameters using the flight vector. Additionally, the method may include: generating a simulated trajectory of the object based on the flight parameters; and providing the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in a graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving a plurality of images taken by a camera over time in an environment, the camera oriented within the environment to capture images of an object in a substantially same direction as a launch direction of the object, the plurality of images including a first image and a second image; identifying a first position of the object in the first image; identifying a second position of the object in the second image; generating a flight vector based on the first position of the object and the second position of the object; determining one or more flight parameters using the flight vector; generating a simulated trajectory of the object based on the flight parameters; and providing the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in a graphical user interface.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein motion data of the object received from a motion sensor or radar sensor triggers the identifying of the object in buffered images of the first image and the second image.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining one or more additional flight parameters based on rotational blur of the object in the first image and the second image, the one or more additional flight parameters including a spin rate for the object and a spin axis for the object, wherein the object includes predetermined markings arranged such that the spin rate and the spin axis of the object are determined based on a manner in which the predetermined markings are captured by the camera in the first image and the second image due to the rotational blur of the object in the first image and the second image.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining a first moment in time associated with the object in the first image and a second moment in time associated with the object in the second image using a rolling shutter of the camera.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining an impact time at which the object is impacted based on the first moment in time and the first position associated with the object in the first image and based on the second moment in time and the second position associated with the object in the second image.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining one or more flight parameters using the flight vector includes determining a launch angle and the launch direction of the object by: generating a first ray from the camera to the object in the first image; generating a second ray from the camera to the object in the second image; generating the flight vector by creating a line intersecting both the first ray and the second ray at the object in the first image and the second image, respectively; and determining a transformed flight vector relative to the camera to be relative to a Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinate system by determining an angle theta at which the flight vector intersects the first ray, the transformed flight vector being a direction of travel for the object.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining a radar speed of the object using a Fast Fourier Transform of radar data of the object; and determining the actual speed of the object by dividing the radar speed of the object by a cosine of the angle theta, wherein the one or more flight parameters include the actual speed of the object.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in the graphical user interface includes: converting the simulated trajectory into a two-dimensional image plane; superimposing the converted simulated trajectory onto a satellite image or a flyby image of the environment; and presenting a video of the object being launched and flight data of the object.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising automatically identifying a club associated with the simulated trajectory of the object using a neural network to identify a club identifier of the club captured in one or more images of the plurality of images.
10. A system, comprising: one or more processors; and non-transitory computer readable media that include instructions thereon that, in response to execution by the one or more processors, control performance of operations comprising: receive a plurality of images taken by a camera over time in an environment, the camera oriented within the environment to capture images of an object in a substantially same direction as a launch direction of the object, the plurality of images including a first image and a second image; identify a first position of the object in the first image; identify a second position of the object in the second image; generate a flight vector based on the first position of the object and the second position of the object; determine one or more flight parameters using the flight vector; generate a simulated trajectory of the object based on the flight parameters; and provide the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in a graphical user interface.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein motion data of the object received from a motion sensor or radar sensor triggers the operation to identify the object in buffered images of the first image and the second image.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise determining one or more additional flight parameters based on rotational blur of the object in the first image and the second image, the one or more additional flight parameters including a spin rate for the object and a spin axis for the object, wherein the object includes predetermined markings arranged such that the spin rate and the spin axis of the object are determined based on a manner in which the predetermined markings are captured by the camera in the first image and the second image due to the rotational blur of the object in the first image and the second image.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise determining a first moment in time associated with the object in the first image and a second moment in time associated with the object in the second image using a rolling shutter of the camera.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the operations further comprise determining an impact time at which the object is impacted based on the first moment in time and the first position associated with the object in the first image and based on the second moment in time and the second position associated with the object in the second image.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the operation to determine one or more flight parameters using the flight vector includes determining a launch angle and the launch direction of the object by operations of: generate a first ray from the camera to the object in the first image; generate a second ray from the camera to the object in the second image; generate the flight vector by creating a line intersecting both the first ray and the second ray at the object in the first image and the second image, respectively; and determine a transformed flight vector relative to the camera to be relative to a Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinate system by determining an angle theta at which the flight vector intersects the first ray, the transformed flight vector being a direction of travel for the object.
16. The system of claim 15, further comprising operations of: determine a radar speed of the object using a Fast Fourier Transform of radar data of the object; and determine the actual speed of the object by dividing the radar speed of the object by a cosine of the angle theta, wherein the one or more flight parameters include the actual speed of the object.
17. The system of claim 10, wherein the operation to provide the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in the graphical user interface includes operations of: convert the simulated trajectory into a two-dimensional image plane; superimpose the converted simulated trajectory onto a satellite image or a flyby image of the environment; and present a video of the object being launched and flight data of the object.
18. The system of claim 10, wherein operations further comprise automatically identifying a club associated with the simulated trajectory of the object using a neural network to identify a club identifier of the club captured in one or more images of the plurality of images.
19. A measurement device, comprising: one or more processors; and non-transitory computer readable media that include instructions thereon that, in response to execution by the one or more processors, control performance of operations comprising: receive a plurality of images from a client device communicatively coupled to the measurement device, the client device oriented within an environment to capture images of an object in a substantially same direction as a launch direction of the object, the plurality of images including a first image and a second image; identify a first position of the object in the first image; identify a second position of the object in the second image; generate a flight vector based on the first position of the object and the second position of the object; determine one or more flight parameters using the flight vector; generate a simulated trajectory of the object based on the flight parameters; and provide the simulated trajectory of the object for presentation in a graphical user interface.
20. The measurement device of claim 19, wherein the operation to determine one or more flight parameters using the flight vector includes determining a launch angle and the launch direction of the object by operations of: generate a first ray from the client device to the object in the first image; generate a second ray from the client device to the object in the second image; generate the flight vector by creating a line intersecting both the first ray and the second ray at the object in the first image and the second image, respectively; and determine a transformed flight vector relative to the client device to be relative to a Global Positioning System (GPS) coordinate system by determining an angle theta at which the flight vector intersects the first ray, the transformed flight vector being a direction of travel for the object.
</claims>
</document>
