<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOMKINSON, TODD HARDING
GARRISON, WILLIAM THOMAS
GERWE, DAVID RODERICK
RIVERA, MARK A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63854536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for hyper-spectral systems
</title>

<abstract>
A hyperspectral analysis computer device is provided. The hyperspectral analysis computer device includes at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device. The hyperspectral analysis computer device is configured to store a plurality of spectral analysis data, receive at least one background item and at least one item to be detected from a user, generate one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data, receive one or more mission parameters from the user, and determine a probability of success based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A hyperspectral analysis computer device comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, said hyperspectral analysis computer device configured to: store a plurality of spectral analysis data; receive, from a user interface, at least one background item and at least one item to be detected; generate one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data; receive, from the user interface, one or more mission parameters; compare the one or more mission parameters to the generated one or more spectral bands to determine whether the at least one item will be detected; and generate a plurality of images based on a distribution of simulated individual pixel measurements associated with the one or more mission parameters, wherein the plurality of images comprise a plurality of random pixel mixtures associated with the at least one background item to train a program to recognize the at least one item to detect.
2. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further configured to determine a false alarm rate based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
3. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further configured to determine percentage chance of detection of the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
4. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further configured to: analyze an image of the plurality of images comprising the at least one background item and the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more spectral bands; and detect the at least one item to be detected based on the analysis.
5. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further configured to generate the plurality of images comprising a plurality of random pixel mixtures based on random mixes of end members.
6. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the one or more mission parameters comprises at least one of a maximum false alarm rate or a probability of detection.
7. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 1, wherein the one or more mission parameters comprises at least one of minimum aperture size, waveband required, required wavelength range, minimum spectral resolution, integration time, ground sample distances, day or night operation, or maximum off-nadir angle.
8. A hyperspectral analysis computer device in accordance with claim 7, wherein said hyperspectral analysis computer device is further configured to determine at least one of a mission altitude, an aperture size, an off-nadir angle, or a resolution based on at least one of the probability of success, the one or more mission parameters, or the generated one or more spectral bands.
9. A method, said method implemented using a hyperspectral analysis computer device, said hyperspectral analysis computer device comprising a processor in communication with a memory, said method comprising: storing, in the memory, a plurality of spectral analysis data; receiving first input data indicative of at least one background item and at least one item to be detected; generating, by the processor, one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data; receiving second input data indicative of one or more mission parameters; comparing, by the processor, the one or more mission parameters to the generated one or more spectral bands to determine whether the at least one item will be detected; and generating, by the processor, a plurality of images based on a distribution of simulated individual pixel measurements associated with the one or more mission parameters, wherein the plurality of images comprise a plurality of random pixel mixtures associated with the at least one background item to train a program to recognize the at least one item to detect.
10. A method in accordance with claim 9 further comprising determining a false alarm rate based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
11. A method in accordance with claim 9 further comprising determining a percentage chance of detection of the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more mission parameters and the generated one or more spectral bands.
12. A method in accordance with claim 9 further comprising: analyzing an image comprising the at least one background item and the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more spectral bands; and detecting the at least one item to be detected based on the analysis.
13. A method in accordance with claim 9 further comprising generating the plurality of images comprising a plurality of random pixel mixtures based on random mixes of end members.
14. A method in accordance with claim 9, wherein the one or more mission parameters comprises at least one of a maximum false alarm rate or a probability of detection.
15. A method in accordance with claim 9, wherein the one or more mission parameters comprises at least one of minimum aperture size, waveband required, required wavelength range, minimum spectral resolution, integration time, ground sample distances, day or night operation, or maximum off-nadir angle.
16. A method in accordance with claim 15 further comprising determining at least one of a mission altitude, an aperture size, an off-nadir angle, or a resolution based on at least one of the probability of success, the one or more mission parameters, or the generated one or more spectral bands.
17. At least one non-transitory computer-readable storage media having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by at least one processor, the computer-executable instructions cause the processor to: store a plurality of spectral analysis data; receive, from a user interface, at least one background item and at least one item to be detected; generate one or more spectral bands for analysis based on the at least one background item, the at least one item to be detected, and the stored plurality of spectral analysis data; receive, from the user interface, one or more mission parameters; compare the one or more mission parameters to the generated one or more spectral bands to determine whether the at least one item will be detected; and generate a plurality of images based on a distribution of simulated individual pixel measurements associated with the one or more mission parameters, wherein the plurality of images comprise a plurality of random pixel mixtures associated with the at least one background item to train a program to recognize the at least one item to detect.
18. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to determine at least one of a false alarm rate and a percentage chance of detection of the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more mission parameters or the generated one or more spectral bands.
19. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to: analyze an image comprising the at least one background item and the at least one item to be detected based on the one or more spectral bands; and detect the at least one item to be detected based on the analysis.
20. The computer-readable storage media of claim 17, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to generate the plurality of images comprising a plurality of random pixel mixtures based upon random mixes of end members.
</claims>
</document>
