<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,G06F17/27,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F40/253,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAYDIN
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, ALEXANDER
MOAH, AYE
CHIN, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63519309
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Analysis of message quality in a networked computer system
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for dynamically assessing and displaying quality features of electronic messages, while composed on client devices, can include one or more processors monitoring the process of composing the electronic message. The one or more processors can retrieve, upon detecting a pause event, data associated with the composed electronic message from a message composing container, and determine a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of the electronic message based on the retrieved data. The one or more processors can determine, based on the plurality of feature values, a likelihood of receiving a response from a receiving entity once the electronic message is sent to that receiving entity. The one or more processors can provide an indication of the determined likelihood of receiving a response and indications of the plurality of determined feature values for display in association with a message composing window displaying the text received.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system to dynamically assess the quality of electronic messages while composed on client devices, the system comprising: a client device with a memory to store processor-executable instructions and at least one processing unit communicatively coupled to the memory; and a software module comprising a text analysis component and a predictive component that executes at least in part on said at least one processing unit of said client device, wherein said software module is configured to: monitor text input, via an input interface of the client device, as part of an electronic message while the electronic message is composed on the client device, the text stored in a message composing container; automatically retrieve, responsive to detection of a pause in inputting text, a portion of the text from the message composing container; automatically transmit the retrieved portion of the text to one or more computer servers via a communication network; automatically receive, by the client device from said one or more computer servers via the communication network, a determination of a likelihood of receiving a response to said electronic message, said determination of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message determined by said one or more computer servers, based at least in part, on a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of said retrieved portion of text; and automatically display, an indication of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message on the client device in conjunction with a message composing window displaying the text, the indication of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message representing real-time dynamic feedback provided during a process of composing the message.
2. The system of claim 1 further comprising a software module configured to: automatically retrieve, responsive to detection of a second pause in inputting text, a second portion of the text from the message composing container; automatically transmit, by the client device to the one or more computer servers via the communication network, the second portion of the text; automatically receive, by the client device from said one or more computer servers via the communication network, a determination of a second likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message, said determination of the second likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message determined by said one or more computer servers, based at least in part, on a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of said retrieved second portion of text; and automatically display, an indication of the determined second likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message on the client device in conjunction with the message composing window displaying the text.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of features include at least two of: a length of a subject field of the electronic message; a word count associated with the text; a question count associated with the text; a reading level; a positivity level; a politeness level; and a subjectivity level.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the software module is further configured to cause the display of a plurality of graphical elements, each graphical element representative of a respective feature of the plurality of features.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein each graphical element includes a slider bar representing a range of feature values for the respective feature and a slider that slides automatically along the slider bar, a position of the slider along the bar representing the determined feature value for the respective feature.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the slider bar is indicative of a range of colors responsive to the range of feature values for the respective feature along the slider bar, the slider associated with the slider bar having a color similar to a color of the slider bar at the position where the slider is located along the slider bar.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the slider takes a color similar to a color of the slider bar at the position where the slider is located along the slider bar.
8. The system of claim 4, wherein each graphical element is selectable.
9. The system of claim 4, wherein the software module is configured to cause, upon selection of a graphical element of the plurality of graphical elements, the display of at least one recommendation to improve the feature value for the feature represented by the selected graphical element.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said determination of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message is determined based, at least in part, on one or more decision trees.
11. A method of dynamically assessing the quality of electronic messages while composed on client devices, the method comprising: monitoring, by one or more processors, text input as part of an electronic message while the electronic message is composed on the client device, the text stored in a message composing container; automatically retrieving, by the one or more processors and responsive to detection of a pause in inputting text, a portion of the text from the message composing container; automatically transmitting, by the client device to one or more computer servers via a communication network, the retrieved portion of the text; automatically receiving, by the client device from said one or more computer servers, a determination of a likelihood of receiving a response to said electronic message, said determination of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message determined by said one or more computer servers, based at least in part, on a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of said retrieved portion of text; and automatically displaying an indication of the determined likelihood of receiving a response to said electronic message on the client device in conjunction with a message composing window displaying the text, the indication of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message representing real-time dynamic feedback provided during a process of composing the message.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: retrieving, by the at least one processor and responsive to detection of a second pause in inputting text, a second portion of the text from the message composing container; automatically transmitting, by the client device to the one or more computer servers via the communication network, the retrieved portion of the text; automatically receiving, by the client device from said one or more computer servers, a determination of the second likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message, said determination of the second likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message determined by said one or more computer servers, based at least in part, on a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of said second portion of text; and automatically displaying an indication of the determined second likelihood of receiving a response to said electronic message on the client device in conjunction with a message composing window displaying the text.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the plurality of features includes at least two of: a length of a subject field of the electronic message; a word count associated with the text; a question count associated with the text; a reading level; a positivity level; a politeness level; and a subjectivity level.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: displaying a plurality of graphical elements, each graphical element representative of a respective feature of the plurality of features.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein each graphical element includes a slider bar representing a range of feature values for the respective feature and a slider that slides automatically along the slider bar, wherein a position of the slider along the slider bar representing the determined feature value for the respective feature.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the slider bar is indicative of a range of colors responsive to the range of feature values for the respective feature along the slider bar, the slider associated with that slider bar having a color similar to a color of the slider bar color at the position where the slider is located along the slider bar.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein each graphical element is selectable.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: displaying, upon selection of a graphical element of the plurality of graphical elements, at least one recommendation to improve the feature value for the feature represented by the selected graphical element.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein said determination of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message is determined based, at least in part, on one or more decision trees.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising code instructions stored thereon, the computer code instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: monitor text input as part of an electronic message while the electronic message is composed on a client device, the text stored in a message composing container; automatically retrieve, responsive to detection of a pause in inputting text, a portion of the text from the message composing container; automatically transmit, by the client device to one or more computer servers via a communication network, the retrieved portion of the text; automatically receive, by the client device from said one or more computer servers, a determination of a likelihood of receiving a response to said electronic message, said determination of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message determined by said one or more computer servers, based at least in part, on a plurality of feature values for a plurality of features of said retrieved portion of text; and automatically display an indication of the determined likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message on the client device in conjunction with a message composing window displaying the text, the indication of the likelihood of receiving the response to said electronic message representing real-time dynamic feedback provided during a process of composing the message.
</claims>
</document>
