<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2452,G06F16/25,G06F16/532,G06F16/632,G06F16/901,G06F16/9038,G06N5/04,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ACCENTURE GLOBAL SOLUTIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
COSTABELLO, LUCA
TSATSOULIS, PENELOPE
BARMAN, UTSAB
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67905734
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integrated monitoring and communications system using knowledge graph based explanatory equipment management
</title>

<abstract>
A system for providing integrated monitoring and communications of diagnostic equipment is disclosed. The system may comprise a data access interface, a processor, and an output interface. The data access interface may receive heterogeneous data from a plurality of machine and sensor equipment associated with performance of a system or product. The data access interface may also to receive a user inquiry pertaining to the system and product. The processor may generate a knowledge graph based on the data associated with the system or product, as well as convert the user inquiry into a knowledge graph query by: extracting entities from the user inquiry; extracting relations from the user inquiry to identify relationships between entities; expanding the user inquiry using the knowledge graph and the entities and relations; and translating the inquiry into knowledge graph triples. The processor may then identify relevant nodes and edges based on the knowledge graph query and the knowledge graph, and determine an answer to the user inquiry.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing integrated monitoring and communications of diagnostic equipment, comprising: one or more data stores to store and manage data within a network; one or more servers to facilitate operations using information from the one or more data stores; an analytics system that communicates with the one or more servers and the one or more data stores to provide integrated monitoring and communications of diagnostic equipment in the network, the analytics system comprising: a data access interface to: receive data associated with diagnostic equipment of a system or product from a data source, wherein the data source comprises heterogeneous data from a plurality of machine and sensor equipment associated with the system or product; and receive a user inquiry, wherein the user inquiry pertains to at least one issue related to performance or health of diagnostic equipment of the system and product; a processor to: generate a knowledge graph based on the data associated with diagnostic equipment of a system or product, wherein the knowledge graph provides analytics-based information associated with the performance or health of diagnostic equipment of the system or product; convert the user inquiry into a knowledge graph query by: performing an entity extraction on the user inquiry to identify one or more entities in the user inquiry, performing a relation extraction on the user inquiry to identify one or more relations between the one or more entities the user inquiry, performing a query expansion using the knowledge graph and the identified entities and relations, and translating the user inquiry into knowledge graph triples based on the query expansion to generate the knowledge graph query; identify relevant nodes and edges based on the entities and relations using the knowledge graph and the knowledge graph query; determine and generate an answer to the user inquiry based on the identified nodes and edges in the knowledge graph, wherein the answer pertains to the performance or health of diagnostic equipment associated with the user inquiry; and an output interface to transmit to a user device the answer responsive to the user inquiry in a user-specified format.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the data source comprises at least one of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, a document, a web feed, a sensor, a geolocation data source, an enterprise database, a public database, a server, an analytics tool, a mobile device, and a reporting system.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the data source comprises heterogeneous data from manufacturing equipment.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the user inquiry is communicated in at least one of a text format, an image format, and an audio format, and wherein the user inquiry is converted to text.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the entity extraction comprises natural language (NLP) processing, and wherein the one or more entities are directed to a subject or object of the user inquiry and the one or more relations are directed to relations of these one or more entities to each other.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the query expansion further comprises using the identified one or more entities and one or more relations to determine strength of relatedness of other entities and relations from the knowledge graph.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the user-specified format is at least one of a text format, an image format, and an audio format.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the answer further comprises a confirmation request for a user at the user device to provide a confirmation as to whether the answer is accurate, wherein the confirmation is used as feedback to update the knowledge graph.
9. A system for providing integrated monitoring and communications of diagnostic equipment, comprising: a data access interface to: receive data associated with diagnostic equipment of a system or product from a data source, wherein the data is heterogeneous data associated with at least a performance of the system or product, and wherein the data source comprises a plurality of machine and sensor equipment; and receive a user inquiry pertaining to at least one issue related to performance or health of diagnostic equipment of the system and product, wherein the user inquiry is converted to a text format for natural language processing (NLP); a processor to: generate a knowledge graph based on the data associated with the diagnostic equipment of system or product; convert the user inquiry into a knowledge graph query by: extracting entities from text of the user inquiry using NLP, wherein the entities are directed to a subject or an object of the user inquiry, extracting relations from text of the user inquiry to identify relationships between the entities in the user inquiry, expanding the user inquiry based on the knowledge graph and the identified entities and relations, and translating the expanded user inquiry into knowledge graph triples to generate the knowledge graph query; identify relevant nodes and edges based on the knowledge graph query and the knowledge graph; determine and generate an answer to the user inquiry based on identified nodes and edges, wherein the answer pertains to the performance or health of diagnostic equipment associated with the user inquiry; and an output interface to transmit an answer to a user at a user device, wherein the answer is responsive to the user inquiry and presented in a user-specified format.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the data source comprises heterogeneous data from a plurality of machine and sensor equipment.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the data source comprises at least one of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, a document, a web feed, a sensor, a geolocation data source, an enterprise database, a public database, a server, an analytics tool, a mobile device, and a reporting system.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the entities are directed to the subject or object of the user inquiry and the relations are directed to relationship of these entities to each other.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein expanding the user inquiry further comprises using the identified entities and relations to determine strength of relatedness of other entities and relations from the knowledge graph.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the user-specified format is at least one of a text format, an image format, and an audio format.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein the answer further comprises a confirmation request for the user to provide a confirmation as to whether the answer is accurate, wherein the confirmation is used as feedback to update or revise the knowledge graph.
16. A method for providing integrated monitoring and communications of diagnostic equipment, comprising: receive data associated with diagnostic equipment of a system or product from a data source, wherein the data is heterogeneous data associated with at least a performance of the system or product, and wherein the data source comprises a plurality of machine and sensor equipment; receive a user inquiry pertaining to at least one issue related to performance or health of diagnostic equipment of the system and product, wherein the user inquiry is converted to a text format for natural language processing (NLP); generate a knowledge graph based on the data associated with diagnostic equipment of the system or product; convert the user inquiry into a knowledge graph query by: extracting entities from text of the user inquiry using NLP, wherein the entities is directed to a subject or an object of the user inquiry, extracting relations from text of the user inquiry to identify relationships between the entities in the user inquiry, expanding the user inquiry based on the knowledge graph and the identified entities and relations, and translating the expanded user inquiry into knowledge graph triples to generate the knowledge graph query; identify relevant nodes and edges based on the knowledge graph query and the knowledge graph; determine and generate an answer to the user inquiry based on identified nodes and edges, wherein the answer pertains to the performance or health of diagnostic equipment associated with the user inquiry; and output an answer to a user at a user device, wherein the answer is responsive to the user inquiry and presented in a user-specified format.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the data source comprises heterogeneous data from at least one of an enterprise resource planning (ERP) system, a document, a web feed, a sensor, a geolocation data source, an enterprise database, a public database, a server, an analytics tool, a mobile device, and a reporting system.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the entities are directed to the subject or object of the user inquiry and the relations are directed to relationship of these entities to each other.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein expanding the user inquiry further comprises using the identified entities and relations to determine strength of relatedness of other entities and relations from the knowledge graph.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the user-specified format is at least one of a text format, an image format, and an audio format.
21. The method of claim 16, wherein the answer further comprises a confirmation request for the user to provide a confirmation as to whether the answer is accurate, wherein the confirmation is used as feedback to update or revise the knowledge graph.
22. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having an executable stored thereon, which when executed instructs a processor to perform the following: receive data associated with diagnostic equipment of a system or product from a data source, wherein the data is heterogeneous data associated with at least a performance of the system or product, and wherein the data source comprises a plurality of machine and sensor equipment; receive a user inquiry pertaining to at least one issue related to performance or health of diagnostic equipment of the system and product, wherein the user inquiry is converted to a text format for natural language processing (NLP); generate a knowledge graph based on the data associated with diagnostic equipment of the system or product; convert the user inquiry into a knowledge graph query by: extracting entities from text of the user inquiry using NLP, wherein the entities is directed to a subject or an object of the user inquiry, extracting relations from text of the user inquiry to identify relationships between the entities in the user inquiry, expanding the user inquiry based on the knowledge graph and the identified entities and relations, and translating the expanded user inquiry into knowledge graph triples to generate the knowledge graph query; identify relevant nodes and edges based on the knowledge graph query and the knowledge graph; determine and generate an answer to the user inquiry based on identified nodes and edges, wherein the answer pertains to the performance or health of diagnostic equipment associated with the user inquiry; and output an answer to a user at a user device, wherein the answer is responsive to the user inquiry and presented in a user-specified format.
</claims>
</document>
