<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B23K26/342,B33Y10/00,B33Y50/00,G05B19/4097
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG LI
GOOD, BRANDON
BERLIER, JACOB
MCCANN, ADAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64459819
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for receiving sensor data for an operating additive manufacturing machine and adaptively compressing the sensor data based on process data which controls the operation of the machine
</title>

<abstract>
Method, and corresponding system, for receiving and adaptively compressing sensor data for an operating manufacturing machine. The method includes determining the sensor data values at the working tool positions based on a time correlation of the values of the sensor data relative to time and the working tool positions relative to time. Tool control magnitude values relative to the working tool positions are determined based on the process data. The method further includes determining a magnitude differential, relative to the working tool positions, between the sensor data values and the tool control magnitude values. Scoring data is determined by applying a scoring function to the magnitude differential. The magnitude differential data is compressed based at least in part on the scoring data. The method further includes decompressing the magnitude differential data and determining the sensor data values versus the working tool positions based on the magnitude differential data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for receiving and adaptively compressing sensor data for an operating manufacturing machine, the method comprising: receiving, at a first server, the sensor data from a sensor for the operating manufacturing machine; determining, using a processor of the first server, values of the sensor data relative to time; determining, using the processor of the first server, working tool positions relative to time based on process data which controls operation of the manufacturing machine, the process data comprising vectors defining the working tool positions during a manufacturing process and the determination comprising: segmenting, using the processor of the first server, the process data into working vectors and non-working vectors; and filtering, based on the working vectors, the tool positions relative to time to obtain the working took positions relative to time; determining the sensor data values at the working tool positions based on a correlation of the values of the sensor data relative to time and the working tool positions relative to time; determining, using the processor of the first server, tool control magnitude values relative to the working tool positions based on the process data; determining a magnitude differential, relative to the working tool positions, between the sensor data values and the tool control magnitude values; determine scoring data based at least in part on the magnitude differential; compressing data of the magnitude differential based at least in part on the scoring data; and transmitting the magnitude differential data via a network.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: decompressing the magnitude differential data; determining the sensor data values versus the working tool positions based at least in part on the magnitude differential data; and outputting the sensor data values at the working tool positions to an analytic model of the manufacturing machine.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: receiving, from the analytic model of the manufacturing machine, adjusted process data, the adjusted process data being determined based at least in part on the analytic model and the sensor data values at the working tool positions, the analytic model being based at least in part on a measured characteristic of the manufacturing machine; and using the adjusted process data to control the operation of the manufacturing machine.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: correlating, using a processor of a user interface device, a 3D model of the part with the sensor data values at the working tool positions; and displaying, on a display of the user interface device, the 3D model of the part with a representation of the sensor data values at the working tool positions.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the scoring data are binary, indicating inclusion or exclusion of each corresponding value of the magnitude differential data.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the compressing of the magnitude differential data comprises removing magnitude differential data values indicated for exclusion by the scoring data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein each value of the scoring data has one of three or more possible states, each of the states being indicative of a defined range of the magnitude differential, a corresponding value of the magnitude differential data being within the indicated range.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the compressing of the magnitude differential data uses Chebyshev polynomials, a number of coefficients of the polynomials being determined based at least in part on the scoring data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the magnitude differential data is transmitted to a second server configured to make the magnitude differential data available to a user interface device.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising retrieving, by the user interface device, the magnitude differential data from the second server, wherein the determining of the sensor data values versus the working tool positions comprises determining the tool control magnitude values versus the working tool positions from process data of the machine stored in at least one of the data host/server and the user interface device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the correlating of the 3D model with the sensor data values comprises aligning the 3D model with a point cloud formed by the sensor data values relative to the working tool positions.
12. A system for receiving and adaptively compressing sensor data for an operating manufacturing machine, the system comprising: a first server having a processor configured to perform: receiving the sensor data from a sensor for the operating manufacturing machine; determining values of the sensor data relative to time; determining working tool positions relative to time based on process data which controls operation of the manufacturing machine, the process data comprising vectors defining the working tool positions and corresponding tool control magnitude values, and the determination comprising: segmenting, using the processor on the first server, the process data into working vectors and non-working vectors; and filtering, based on the working vectors, the tool positions relative to time to obtain the working took positions relative to time; determining the sensor data values at the working tool positions based on a correlation of the values of the sensor data relative to time and the working tool positions relative to time; determining the tool control magnitude values relative to the working tool positions based on the process data; determining a magnitude differential, relative to the working tool positions, between the sensor data values and the tool control magnitude values; determine scoring data based at least in part on the magnitude differential; compressing data of the magnitude differential based at least in part on the scoring data; and transmitting the magnitude differential data via a network.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising: a second server having a processor and configured to perform: decompressing the magnitude differential data; determining the sensor data values versus the working tool positions based at least in part on the magnitude differential data; and outputting the sensor data values at the working tool positions to an analytic model of the manufacturing machine.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the second server is further configured to perform: receiving, from the analytic model of the manufacturing machine, adjusted process data, the adjusted process data being determined based at least in part on the analytic model and the sensor data values at the working tool positions, the analytic model being based at least in part on a measured characteristic of the manufacturing machine; and using the adjusted process data to control the operation of the manufacturing machine.
15. The system of claim 12, further comprising a user interface device comprising a display and a processor configured to perform: correlating a 3D model of the part with the sensor data values at the working tool positions; and displaying the 3D model of the part on the display with a representation of the sensor data values at the working tool positions.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the scoring data are binary, indicating inclusion or exclusion of each corresponding value of the magnitude differential data.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the compressing of the magnitude differential data comprises removing magnitude differential data values indicated for exclusion by the scoring data.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein each value of the scoring data has one of three or more possible states, each of the states being indicative of a defined range of the magnitude differential, a corresponding value of the magnitude differential data being within the indicated range.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the compressing of the magnitude differential data uses Chebyshev polynomials, a number of coefficients of the polynomials being determined based at least in part on the scoring data.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the first server is configured to perform the transmitting of the magnitude differential data via a network to a second server, the second server being configured to make the magnitude differential data available to a user interface device.
21. The system of claim 20, wherein the determining of the sensor data values versus the working tool positions by the first server comprises determining the tool control magnitude values versus the working tool positions from process data of the machine stored in at least one of the data host/server and the user interface device.
22. A method for receiving and adaptively compressing sensor data for an operating manufacturing machine, the method comprising: receiving, at a first server, the sensor data from a sensor for the operating manufacturing machine; determining, using a processor of the first server, values of the sensor data relative to time; determining, using the processor of the first server, working tool positions relative to time based on process data which controls operation of the manufacturing machine, the process data comprising vectors defining the working tool positions during a manufacturing process and the determination comprising: segmenting, using the processor of the first server, the process data into working vectors and non-working vectors; and filtering, based on the working vectors, the tool positions relative to time to obtain the working took positions relative to time; determining the sensor data values at the working tool positions based on a correlation of the values of the sensor data relative to time and the working tool positions relative to time; determining, using the processor of the first server, scoring data values relative to the working tool positions based at least in part on an identification of geometric structures in the process data; compressing the sensor data based at least in part on the scoring data; and transmitting the compressed sensor data via a network.
</claims>
</document>
