<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/32,G06F3/041,G06F3/0488,G10L17/02,G10L17/24,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PENDARAKIS, DIMITRIOS
CHARI, SURESH
HUANG, HEQING
GU, ZHONGSHU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68982253
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Single channel input multi-factor authentication via separate processing pathways
</title>

<abstract>
Mechanisms are provided to implement a single input, multi-factor authentication (SIMFA) system. The SIMFA system receives a user input for authenticating a user via a single input channel and provides the user input to first authentication logic of an explicit channel of the SIMFA system, where in the first authentication logic performs a knowledge authentication operation on the user input. The SIMFA system further provides the user input to second authentication logic of one or more side channels of the SIMFA system, where the second authentication logic performs authentication on non-knowledge-based characteristics of the user input. The SIMFA system combines results of the first authentication logic and the second authentication logic to generate a final determination of authenticity of the user. The SIMFA system generates an output indicating whether the user is an authentic user or a non-authentic user based on the final determination of authenticity of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, in a data processing system comprising at least one processor and at least one memory, the at least one memory comprising instructions that are executed by the processor to configure the processor to implement a single input, multi-factor authentication, the method comprising: receiving, from a touchscreen input device, a single user gesture input for authenticating a user; executing, by first authentication logic of an explicit channel, first authentication processing of gesture pattern content of the single user gesture input to generate a first authentication result based on a determined level of correctness of the gesture pattern content relative to stored authentic gesture pattern data corresponding to an authorized user; executing, by second authentication logic of one or more side channels, second authentication processing of at least one touch characteristic of the single user gesture input to generate a second authentication result based on a determined level of correspondence of the at least one touch characteristic with at least one authentic touch characteristic of the authorized user; combining results of the first authentication processing and the second authentication processing to generate a final determination of an authenticity of the user; and generating an output indicating whether the user is an authentic user or a non-authentic user based on the final determination of authenticity of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein executing, by the first authentication logic of the explicit channel, and executing, by the second authentication logic of one or more side channels, are performed in parallel at substantially a same time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one touch characteristics comprise a pressing force on the touchscreen at one or more points along a pattern specified by the pattern content, a stroke thickness at one or more points along the pattern specified by the pattern content, and a direction of drawing the pattern specified by the pattern content.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more non-knowledge-based characteristics comprise a biometric characteristic of the user input.
5. A computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable medium having a computer readable program stored therein, wherein the computer readable program, when executed on a data processing system, causes the data processing system to implement a single input, multi-factor authentication (SIMFA) system, that performs the operations: receiving, from a touchscreen input device, a single user gesture input for authenticating a user; executing, by first authentication logic of an explicit channel, first authentication processing of gesture pattern content of the single user gesture input to generate a first authentication result based on a determined level of correctness of the gesture pattern content relative to stored authentic gesture pattern data corresponding to an authorized user; executing, by second authentication logic of one or more side channels, second authentication processing of at least one touch characteristic of the single user gesture input to generate a second authentication result based on a determined level of correspondence of the at least one touch characteristic with at least one authentic touch characteristic of the authorized user; combining results of the first authentication processing and the second authentication processing to generate a final determination of an authenticity of the user; and generating an output indicating whether the user is an authentic user or a non-authentic user based on the final determination of authenticity of the user.
6. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein executing, by the first authentication logic of the explicit channel, and executing, by the second authentication logic of one or more side channels, are performed in parallel at substantially a same time.
7. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the at least one touch characteristics comprise a pressing force on the touchscreen at one or more points along a pattern specified by the pattern content, a stroke thickness at one or more points along the pattern specified by the pattern content, and a direction of drawing the pattern specified by the pattern content.
8. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the one or more non-knowledge-based characteristics comprise a biometric characteristic of the user input.
9. An apparatus comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor, wherein the memory comprises instructions which, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to implement a single input, multi-factor authentication (SIMFA) system, that performs the operations: receiving, from a touchscreen input device, a single user gesture input for authenticating a user; executing, by first authentication logic of an explicit channel, first authentication processing of gesture pattern content of the single user gesture input to generate a first authentication result based on a determined level of correctness of the gesture pattern content relative to stored authentic gesture pattern data corresponding to an authorized user; executing, by second authentication logic of one or more side channels, second authentication processing of at least one touch characteristic of the single user gesture input to generate a second authentication result based on a determined level of correspondence of the at least one touch characteristic with at least one authentic touch characteristic of the authorized user; combining results of the first authentication processing and the second authentication processing to generate a final determination of an authenticity of the user; and generating an output indicating whether the user is an authentic user or a non-authentic user based on the final determination of authenticity of the user.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more side channels comprise at least two side channels, each side channel in the at least two side channels processing a different touch characteristic of the at least one touch characteristic.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a fingerprint authentication operation that authenticates a fingerprint of the user providing the single user gesture input.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a pressing force authentication operation that authenticates a pattern of pressing force data representing pressing force at various points along the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a stroke thickness authentication operation that authenticates a stroke thickness pattern representing an amount of area of the user's finger or writing instrument used to input the gesture pattern at various points along the gesture pattern of the single user gesture input.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a drawing direction authentication operation that authenticates a direction pattern of strokes in the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
15. The computer program product of claim 5, wherein the one or more side channels comprise at least two side channels, each side channel in the at least two side channels processing a different touch characteristic of the at least one touch characteristic.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a fingerprint authentication operation that authenticates a fingerprint of the user providing the single user gesture input.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a pressing force authentication operation that authenticates a pattern of pressing force data representing pressing force at various points along the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
18. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a stroke thickness authentication operation that authenticates a stroke thickness pattern representing an amount of area of the user's finger or writing instrument used to input the gesture pattern at various points along the gesture pattern of the single user gesture input.
19. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a drawing direction authentication operation that authenticates a direction pattern of strokes in the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
20. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the one or more side channels comprise at least two side channels, each side channel in the at least two side channels processing a different touch characteristic of the at least one touch characteristic.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a fingerprint authentication operation that authenticates a fingerprint of the user providing the single user gesture input.
22. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a pressing force authentication operation that authenticates a pattern of pressing force data representing pressing force at various points along the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
23. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein at least one of the side channels in the at least two side channels is one of: a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a stroke thickness authentication operation that authenticates a stroke thickness pattern representing an amount of area of the user's finger or writing instrument used to input the gesture pattern at various points along the gesture pattern of the single user gesture input, or a side channel that processes the single user gesture input by performing a drawing direction authentication operation that authenticates a direction pattern of strokes in the gesture pattern of the user gesture input.
</claims>
</document>
