<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q10/10,G10L13/02,G10L13/04,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CITRIX SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUCHASTEL, THIERRY
PIETRO, MARCOS ALEJANDRO DI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65023304
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for prioritizing messages for conversion from text to speech based on predictive user behavior
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments describe systems and methods for prioritizing messages for conversion from text to speech. A message manager can execute on a device. The message manager can identify a plurality of messages accessible via the device and can determine, for each message of the plurality of messages, a conversion score based on one or more parameters of each message. The conversion score can indicate a priority of each message to convert from text to speech. The message manager can identify a message of the plurality of messages for transmission to a text-to-speech converter for converting the message from text to speech. The message manager can also receive, from the text-to-speech converter, speech data of the message to play via an audio output of the device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: determining, by a device, a conversion score for each message of a plurality of messages that have not been listened to based at least on metadata about each message, the conversion score identifying a priority of each message to be pre-converted from text to speech in advance of a user requesting to listen to one or more of the plurality of messages; selecting, by the device responsive to the conversion score for each message of the plurality of messages, one or more of the plurality of messages to convert from text to speech in advance of the user requesting to listen to the one or more messages; communicating, by the device, the selected one or more messages to a text-to-speech converter; storing, by the device, speech data for the selected one or more message received from the text-to-speech converter; and identifying, by the device responsive to the user requesting to listen to a message of the selected one or more messages, speech data from storage to play for the message via an audio output of the device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises one of a length of time since each message has been received or transmitted, or whether each message is read or unread.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises information identifying whether each message is included in a message thread.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises information identifying a relationship between a sender and recipient of each message.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the conversion score for each message of the plurality messages received by a message application on the device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining the conversion score for a message of the plurality messages that has been read.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving, by the device, a request from the user to listen to the speech data of the message instead of reading text of the message.
8. A method comprising: identifying, by a device, metadata about a plurality of messages to be accessed by a user of the device; communicating, by the device, the metadata to a machine learning service trained to predict a message that the user is likely to read next among the plurality of messages; receiving, by the device from the machine learning service, identification of a message of the plurality of messages that the user is likely to read next based at least on the metadata; communicating, by the device, the message to a text-to-speech converter to obtain speech data of the message to play via an audio output of the device in advance of the user requesting to listen to the message.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the metadata comprises one of a length of time since each message has been received or transmitted, or whether each message is read or unread.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the metadata comprises information identifying whether each message is included in a message thread.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the metadata comprises information identifying a relationship between a sender and recipient of each message.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising storing, by the device, speech data for the message received from the text-to-speech converter; and playing, by the device responsive to the user requesting to listen to the message, the speech data for the message via an audio output of the device.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the machine learning service is deployed on one or more servers remote to and accessible by the device via one or more networks.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising communicating the metadata to the machine learning service to identify the message among the plurality of message to pre-convert from text to speech.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors of a device configured to: identify metadata about each message of a plurality of messages that have not been listened to based at least on metadata about each message; select, based at least on the metadata for each message of the plurality of messages, one or more of the plurality of messages to convert from text to speech in advance of the user requesting to listen to the one or more messages; communicate the selected one or more messages to a text-to-speech converter; store, speech data for the selected one or more message received from the text-to-speech converter; and identify, responsive to the user requesting to listen to a message of the selected one or more messages, speech data from storage to play for the message via an audio output of the device.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the metadata comprises one or more of the following: a length of time since each message has been received or transmitted, whether each message is read or unread, whether each message is included in a message thread and information identifying a relationship between a sender and recipient of each message.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine a conversion score for each message of a plurality of messages based at least on metadata about each message, the conversion score identifying a priority of each message to be pre-converted from text to speech in advance of the user requesting to listen to one or more of the plurality of messages.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more processors are configured to communicate metadata about each message to a machine learning service trained to predict a message that the user is likely to read next among the plurality of messages.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the one or more processors are configured to receive from the machine learning service identification of a message of the plurality of messages that the user is likely to read next based at least on the metadata.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the machine learning service is deployed on one or more servers remote to and accessible by the one or more processors via one or more networks.
</claims>
</document>
