<document>

<filing_date>
2013-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2008-01-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BRENNAN, PATRICK J.
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRENNAN, PATRICK J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
41380911
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for managing supply chains across separate organizations
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method of managing supply chains across separate organizations. The organizations that supply items to an organization and the organizations that use items supplied by that organization are defined in a consumer/producer hierarchy of three or more layers. Organizations at the first layer supply items to one or more organizations at the second layer while organizations at the second layer supply items to one or more organizations at the third layer, wherein each item may include a product or a service. A supply chain database is created and each organization is given access only to supply chain information within that organization's supply chain. The supply chain database includes an entry for each item supplied by one organization to another organization, wherein the entry includes item attributes, including an indication of the item supplied, a primary location where the item comes from, and disaster recovery parameters including an alternate location and a recovery time associated with bringing the alternate location online.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of managing supply chains across a plurality of separate organizations, wherein the plurality of separate organizations include a first organization and a second organization, the method comprising: defining a supply chain hierarchy for the supply chains, the supply chain hierarchy defining, for each organization, the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy that supply items to the respective organization and the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy that receive items supplied by the respective organization, wherein each item includes one or more of a product or a service; creating a supply chain database on a database management system, the database management system connected to a network, wherein the supply chain database includes a plurality of item records which reflect the hierarchy of one or more of the supply chains, wherein each item record is associated with one of the items, wherein each item record is also associated with the organization that supplies the item and wherein each item record includes supply chain risk management information for each of the associated respective items, wherein the database management system includes a database schema used to define how the item records are stored in the supply chain database; associating one or more users with each organization, wherein associating includes authenticating the user and creating permissions that provide the user with remote access over the network to the item records of the user's organization in the supply chain database while preventing access to the item records stored in the supply chain database associated with one or more of the other organizations in the supply chain hierarchy; receiving, from the network and at the database management system, from one of the users, information associated with one of the item records, wherein the information received is in a non-standardized format, wherein receiving information includes authenticating the user submitting the information to ensure the user has permission to modify the respective item record; updating the respective item record based on the information received from the respective user, wherein updating includes converting the information received in the non-standardized format to a standardized format, validating the information and storing the validated information to the respective item record, wherein validating includes sending an error message to the user over the network based at least in part on information from the database management system if corrections are needed; receiving, from a user associated with the first organization, a request to update the supply chain risk management information of one of the item records associated with the second organization; conveying the request to one or more users associated with the second organization; receiving, from one of the one or more users associated with the second organization, updated supply chain risk management information; storing the updated supply chain risk management information in the appropriate item record; detecting a supply chain risk event impacting one of the items in the item record subject to the request, wherein detecting including receiving information regarding the supply chain risk event over the network from a collaborative source; generating, based at least in part on the updated supply chain risk management information and on the information received from the collaborative source regarding the supply chain risk event, a report for each organization impacted by the supply chain risk event, wherein the report indicates the items at risk because of the supply chain risk event; and sending the report in real time over the network via messaging software executing on the database management system to each organization impacted by the supply chain risk event.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes generating a map showing a primary location for each item.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes generating a map showing a primary location for each item and wherein detecting includes displaying supply chain risk event locations along with selected primary locations on the map.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes detailing and monitoring disaster recovery plans, wherein monitoring includes detecting flaws in disaster recovery plans and encouraging organizations to address the flaws.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes restricting access to supply chain information in item records associated with organizations other than the user's organization.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes defining parameters associated with locations, wherein items inherit all parameters associated with their primary location.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein defining parameters includes associating additional parameters with each location.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein creating a supply chain database includes making recommendations for improving a disaster recovery plan.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises generating, for each user, a disaster risk analysis detailing organizations in their supply chain potentially impacted by a disaster event, wherein the disaster risk analysis includes retrieving information from supply chain risk management information stored in the item records of organizations other than the organization of each particular user, reviewing the disaster risk analysis, generating one or more requests based on the review and transmitting the requests, via the network, to the organizations subject to the requests.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein reviewing the disaster risk analysis further includes periodically analyzing the disaster risk analysis against an objective and creating a workflow as a function of the analysis.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein reviewing the disaster risk analysis further includes augmenting the disaster risk analysis with information retrieved over the network from a third-party source.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein reviewing the disaster risk analysis further includes augmenting the disaster risk analysis with longitude and latitude information retrieved over the network from a third-party source; and wherein detecting a supply chain risk event includes receiving, from a third party and over the network, notification that an event occurred at a given longitude and latitude, comparing the longitude and latitude of the event to the longitude and latitude of one or more primary and alternate locations, and noting, as a potential supply chain risk, suppliers with primary or alternate locations in the vicinity of the event.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes determining shared resource risk across two or more organizations.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes determining shared resource risk across two or more organizations and noting steps to be taken to reduce shared resource risk.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes identifying shared resource risk across two or more organizations and notifying organizations of the shared resource risk.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes retrieving financial information relative to one or more organizations and interpreting the financial information to determine supply risk.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the financial information includes bankruptcy risk.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes identifying previous events pertinent to current disaster risk analysis.
19. The method of claim 9, wherein generating a disaster risk analysis includes identifying costs associated with a particular event.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the supply chain database includes a data warehouse, wherein a database schema defines how the item records are stored in the data warehouse.
21. A system for managing a plurality of organizations, including a first organization and a second organization, the system comprising: a data center having at least one server and a network interface that can be connected to an external network; and software executing on the at least one server, wherein the software includes instructions for: defining a supply chain hierarchy for one or more supply chains, the supply chain hierarchy defining, for each organization, the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy that supply items to the respective organization and the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy that receive items supplied by the respective organization, wherein each item includes one or more of a product or a service; creating a supply chain database on a database management system within the data center, the database management system connected to the external network, wherein the supply chain database includes a plurality of item records which reflect the hierarchy of one or more of the supply chains, wherein each item record is associated with one of the items, wherein each item record is also associated with the organization that supplies the item and wherein each item record includes supply chain risk management information for each of the respective items, wherein the database management system includes a database schema used to define how the item records are stored in the supply chain database; associating one or more users with each organization, wherein associating includes authenticating the user and creating permissions that provide the user with remote access over the external network to the item records of the user's organization in the supply chain database while preventing access to the item records stored in the supply chain database associated with one or more of the other organizations in the supply chain hierarchy; receiving, from the network and at the database management system, from one of the users, information associated with one of the item records, wherein the information received is in a non-standardized format, wherein receiving information includes authenticating the user submitting the information to ensure the user has permission to modify the respective item record; updating the respective item record based on the information received from the respective user, wherein updating includes converting the information received in the non-standardized format to a standardized format validating the information and storing the validated information to the respective item record, wherein validating includes sending an error message to the user over the network based at least in part on information from the database management system if corrections are needed; receiving, from a user associated with the first organization, a request to update the supply chain risk management information of one of the item records associated with the second organization; conveying the request to one or more users associated with the second organization; receiving, from one of the one or more users associated with the second organization, updated supply chain risk management information; storing the updated supply chain risk management information in the appropriate item record; detecting a supply chain risk event impacting one of the items in the item record subject to the request, wherein detecting including receiving information regarding the supply chain risk event over the network from a collaborative source; generating, based at least in part on the updated supply chain risk management information and on the information received from the collaborative source regarding the supply chain risk event, a report for each organization impacted by the supply chain risk event, wherein the report indicates the items at risk because of the supply chain risk event; and sending the report in real time over the network via messaging software executing on the database management system to each organization impacted by the supply chain risk event.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the system further comprises a display, wherein the display displays a map showing a primary location for selected items.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the system further comprises a display, wherein the display displays a map depicting supply chain risk event locations and selected item primary locations.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein creating a supply chain database includes monitoring disaster recovery plans, wherein monitoring includes detecting flaws in disaster recovery plans and encouraging organizations to address the flaws.
25. The system of claim 21, wherein creating a supply chain database includes making recommendations for improving a disaster recovery plan.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the database management system solicits information from a selected one of the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy on items supplied to the selected organization by other organizations in the supply chain hierarchy and uses that information to solicit information on primary location and disaster recovery from the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy supplying the items.
27. The system of claim 21, wherein the database management system solicits information from a selected one of the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy on items supplied to the selected organization by other organizations in the supply chain hierarchy and uses that information to solicit information on primary location and disaster recovery from the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy supplying the items; and wherein the database management system further solicits information from organizations in the supply chain hierarchy supplying items to the selected organization and uses that information to solicit information on primary location and disaster recovery from organizations in the supply chain hierarchy supplying items to one of the organizations in the supply chain hierarchy supplying items to the selected organization.
</claims>
</document>
