<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/26,G10L25/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEATTIE, JR., JAMES GORDON
KRINSKY, JEFFREY A.
PEITZER, HAYWOOD S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67684643
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Performance sensitive audio signal selection
</title>

<abstract>
Performance sensitive selection of audio signal data is disclosed. A first rank value for the processed audio signal data can be based on a level of fidelity to an input audio signal. A second rank value for the processed audio signal data can be based on a performance metric of a processing scheme for processing the input audio signal into the processed audio signal. A third rank for the processed audio signal data can be based on an indication of a level of satisfaction for performance of the processed audio signal by a receiving device. A fourth rank for the processed audio signal data can be based on a network condition for a network conveying the processed audio signal to a device for performing the processed audio signal. Selection of the processed audio signal data can be based on the first, second, third, fourth rank, or combinations thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: in response to receiving input audio data, determining a quality score based on comparing the input audio data to a processed version of the input audio data; ranking the processed version of the input audio data based on the quality score corresponding to the processed version of the input audio data, wherein the ranking corresponds to a level of fidelity between processed audio represented by the processed version of the input audio data and input audio represented by the input audio data, a processing metric of a processing schema corresponding to the processed version of the input audio data, a first indication of satisfaction associated with performance of the processed version of the input audio data via a performing device, and a second indication of satisfaction associated with a performance condition of network equipment that enables transport of the processed version of the input audio data to the performing device; adjusting the ranking of the processed version of the input audio data, resulting in an adjusted ranking, based on corresponding key performance metrics for the processed version of the input audio data; in response to selecting the processed version of the input audio data based on the adjusted ranking and a threshold value, the selecting resulting in a selected processed version, processing subsequent input audio data, received subsequent to the input audio data, based on a processing technology employed by the selected processed version of the input audio data.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the input audio data is prerecorded input audio data.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the input audio data is live input audio data received via a microphone of a user equipment.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the input audio data is live input audio data, and wherein the live input audio data comprises live human voice data.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the corresponding key performance metrics comprise a transcoder bit rate for the processed version of the input audio data.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the corresponding key performance metrics comprise a distortion value for the processed version of the input audio data.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the corresponding key performance metrics comprise a network condition metric representative of a degree to which a network condition is present.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the corresponding key performance metrics are received from a data store located remote from the device.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is comprised in a user equipment.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the processed version of the input audio data comprises a compressed version of the input audio data.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the processed version of the input audio data comprises a digitized version of the input audio data.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the processed version of the input audio data comprises a companded version of the input audio data.
13. The device of claim 1, wherein the determining the quality score comprises speech-to-text processing of the input audio data and of the processed version of the input audio data.
14. A method, comprising: receiving, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, input audio data; receiving, by the system, processed audio data corresponding to a processing of the input audio data; determining, by the system, a first rank of the processed audio data based on a level of fidelity between processed audio represented by the processed audio data and input audio represented by the input audio data; determining, by the system, a second rank of the processed audio data based on a processing metric of a processing schema corresponding to the processed audio data; determining, by the system, a third rank of the processed audio data based on a first indication related to a level of satisfaction associated with performance of the processed audio data; determining, by the system, a fourth rank of the processed audio data based on a second indication related to a performance condition of a user equipment comprising the processor; and enabling, by the system, access to the processed audio data based on the first rank, the second rank, the third rank, and the fourth rank.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the indication is a first indication, and further comprising: determining, by the system, a fifth rank of the processed audio data based on a second indication related to a performance condition of network equipment, wherein the network equipment enables transport of the processed audio data to the receiving device, for the performance of the processed audio data, from a sending device; wherein the enabling the access comprises enabling the access further based on the fifth rank.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving input audio data; receiving processed audio data corresponding to a result of a processing of the input audio data; determining a first rank of the processed audio data based on a type of the input audio data and based on a level of fidelity between input audio represented by the input audio data and processed audio represented by the processed audio data; determining a second rank of the processed audio data based on a performance metric of a processing schema corresponding to the processed audio data; determining a third rank of the processed audio data based on a first indication related to a level of satisfaction associated with a rendering of the processed audio data by a receiving device that has received the processed audio data; determining a fourth rank of the processed audio data based on a second indication related to a performance condition of network equipment, wherein the network equipment enables transport of the processed audio data to the receiving device; and enabling access to the processed audio data based on the first rank, the second rank, the third rank, and the fourth rank.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: determining a fifth rank of the processed audio data based on a second indication related to a performance condition of a user equipment comprising the processor, and wherein the enabling the access comprises enabling the access further based on the fifth rank.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the input audio data represents music.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the processed audio data comprises a companded version of the input audio data.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the processed audio data comprises a digitized version of the input audio data.
</claims>
</document>
