<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W24/02,H04W40/02,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MESHPLUSPLUS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARDNER, DANIEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68982262
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Data aggregation for distributed optimization of a wireless network
</title>

<abstract>
A network device operates as a node in a wireless mesh communication network. The device includes a wireless communication interface to couple the device to adjacent nodes via respective direct communication links. The device stores routing data indicating, for each of multiple destination devices, via which of the adjacent nodes packets can be routed to the corresponding destination device along a respective routing path. In a first instance, the network device receives a packet from an adjacent node, determines that the packet includes data for a destination device referenced by the routing data, and sends the packet to the destination device, in accordance with the routing data. In a second instance, the network device determines that a packet includes an update related to one of the routing paths, updates the routing data in accordance with the update, and sends the packet to one or more of the adjacent nodes.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network device configured to operate as a node in a wireless mesh communication network, the network device comprising: a wireless communication interface to communicatively couple the network device to a plurality of adjacent nodes of the wireless communication network, via respective direct communication links; and a non-transitory memory to store routing data that (i) indicates, for a plurality of destination devices, via which of the adjacent nodes packets can be routed to the corresponding destination device along a respective routing path, and (ii) includes, for each of the routing paths, aggregate path characteristics indicative of past performance of packets transmitted along the routing path; wherein the network device is configured to, using a processing unit: train a machine learning (ML) model using the aggregate path characteristics for the routing paths, wherein the ML model generates respective priority values for the routing paths; in a first instance, (i) receive a first packet from one of the adjacent nodes, (ii) determine that the first packet includes data for a destination device referenced by the routing data, (ii) determine that the first packet can reach the destination device via a first one of the adjacent nodes along a first routing path having a first priority value or via a second one of the adjacent nodes along a second routing path having a second priority value, (iii) select, based on the first priority value and the second priority value, one of the first routing path or the second routing path for sending the first packet, and (iv) send the first packet to the destination device via one of the adjacent nodes, in accordance with the selected routing path, and in a second instance, (i) receive a second packet from one of the adjacent nodes, (ii) determine that the second packet includes an update related to one of the routing paths, (iii) update the routing data in accordance with the update, and (iv) send the second packet to one or more of the adjacent nodes.
2. The network device of claim 1, wherein the aggregate path characteristics include one or more respective metrics of (i) hop count, (ii) delay, (iii) packet loss, (iv) packet window, (v) throughput, and (vi) encoding.
3. The network device of claim 1, wherein the update includes an indication of performance of a packet transmitted along the routing path to which the update is related, and wherein the network device updates the aggregate path characteristics for the routing path based on the update.
4. The network device of claim 3 further configured to: in the first instance, store an identifier of the first packet in the memory, and in the second instance, determine that the update references the identifier of the first packet stored in the memory and update the aggregate path characteristics for the routing path along which the first packet was sent.
5. The network device of claim 1, wherein the network device is configured to: in a third instance, (i) receive a third packet from one of the adjacent nodes, (ii) determine that the third packet includes data for a destination device not referenced by the routing data, and (iii) send a negative acknowledgement to the node from which the third packet was received.
6. The network device of claim 1 configured to: in the second instance, send the second packet to each of the adjacent nodes except for the node from which the network device received the second packet.
7. The network device of claim 1 configured to: in a third instance, (i) receive a third packet from one of the adjacent nodes, (ii) determine that the third packet includes an update unrelated to any of the routing paths included in the routing data, (iii) augment the routing data to include an indication that a destination device referenced in the third packet can be reached via the node from which the network device received the third packet, and (iv) not send the third packet to any other adjacent nodes.
8. The network device of claim 1, wherein the memory further stores aggregate link characteristics indicative of quality of communication links via which the network device is coupled to the adjacent nodes; wherein the network device is configured to: in each of the first instance and the second instance, update the aggregate link characteristics for the communication link via which the network device received the first packet or the second packet, based on the received packet.
9. The network device 1 configured to not store a complete route information for any of the routing paths to which the routing data relates.
10. The network device of claim 1, further comprising: a power source including at least one of a solar panel or a battery.
11. A method in a network device that operates as a node a wireless mesh communication network made up of a plurality nodes, with each of the nodes coupled to one or more adjacent nodes via a respective direct communication link, the method comprising: storing, in a non-transitory memory, routing data that (i) indicates, for a plurality of destination devices, via which of a plurality of adjacent nodes packets can be routed to the corresponding destination device along a respective routing path, and (ii) includes, for each of the routing paths, aggregate path characteristics indicative of past performance of packets transmitted along the routing path; using a processing unit, training a machine learning (ML) model using the aggregate path characteristics for the routing paths, wherein the ML model generates respective priority values for the routing paths; receiving a first packet from a first adjacent node, the first packet referencing a destination device and including data for the destination device; identifying, based on the routing data, an adjacent node to which the first packet is to be sent, including selecting a routing path to the destination device for the first packet based on the generated respective priority values; sending the first packet to the destination device via the identified adjacent node in accordance with the selected routing path; receiving a second packet from the first or a second adjacent node, the second packet includes an update related to one of the routing paths; updating the routing data in accordance with the update; and sending the second packet to one or more of the adjacent nodes.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the aggregate path characteristics include one or more respective metrics of (i) hop count, (ii) delay, (iii) packet loss, (iv) packet window, (v) throughput, and (vi) encoding.
13. A network device configured to operate as a node in a wireless mesh communication network, the network device comprising: a wireless communication interface to communicatively couple the network device to a plurality of adjacent nodes including a first adjacent node coupled to the network device via a first direct link and a second adjacent node coupled to the network device via a second direct link; and a non-transitory memory to store routing data, the routing data including (i) an indication that a destination device is reachable via the first link and via the second link, (ii) first aggregate path characteristics indicative of past performance of packets delivered via the first link along a first routing path, and (iii) second aggregate path characteristics indicative of past performance of packets delivered via the second link along a second routing path; wherein the network device is configured to: receive, via the wireless communication interface, a packet referencing the destination device, using a processing unit, train a machine learning (ML) model using aggregate path characteristics included in the routing data, wherein the ML model generates respective priority values for the routing paths; select one of the first direct link along the first routing path or the second direct link along the second routing path in view of the generated respective priority values, for transmitting the packet to the destination device, and send the packet to the destination device in accordance with the selected one of the first direct link along the first routing path or the second direct link along the second routing path; receive an update indicative of performance of the packet along a corresponding routing path, send the update to each of the adjacent nodes except for the node from which the update was received, and modify, based on the received update, the aggregate path characteristics for the corresponding routing path selected for transmitting the packet.
14. The network device of claim 13 further configured to: include, in the update sent to each of the adjacent nodes, the modified aggregate path characteristics.
15. The network device of claim 13, wherein the memory further stores aggregate link characteristics indicative of quality of communication links via which the network device is coupled to the adjacent nodes; wherein the network device is configured to: update the corresponding aggregate link characteristics in response to receiving the packet and the update.
</claims>
</document>
