<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/083,A61B5/20,A61J15/00,G16H10/60,G16H20/60,G16H40/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ART MEDICAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
IDDAN, GAVRIEL J.
ELIA, LIRON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60812111
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for dynamic control of enteral feeding according to energy expenditure
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method of adjusting enteral feeding of a patient by an enteral feeding controller, comprising: computing an estimate of energy expenditure of the patient based on oxygen measurements and carbon dioxide measurements of the patient, computing a target composition and target feeding rate for the enteral feeding according to the computed estimate of energy expenditure, when the target composition and target feeding rate differ from a current enteral feeding composition and feeding rate by a requirement, generating instructions for adjustment, by an enteral feeding controller, of the rate of delivery of the enteral feeding according to the target composition, wherein the receiving the oxygen measurement, receiving the carbon dioxide measurement, and computing the estimate of energy expenditure are performing iteratively for every first time interval, and the generating instructions for adjustment are performed for a second time interval that is larger than the first time interval.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of adjusting enteral feeding of a patient by an enteral feeding controller, comprising: receiving output of a carbon dioxide sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; receiving output of a flow sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; computing energy expenditure of the patient based on the output of the carbon dioxide sensor and the flow sensor; computing a target nutritional goal for the enteral feeding that provides 100% or near 100% of the computed energy expenditure of the patient irrespective of a predictive equation; selecting a target feeding formula from a plurality of feeding formulas according to the target nutritional goal; generating instructions for adjustment, by an enteral feeding controller, for delivery of the target feeding formula; and providing the generated instructions to the enteral feeding controller to deliver enteral feedings to the patient via an enteral feeding tube from at least one feed inlet of at least one feeding tube according to at least one of a feeding rate and a feeding composition defined by the generated instructions.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing an analysis of real-time patient vial sign measurements collected from an electronic medical record of the patient to determine whether the patient is at rest, wherein the energy expenditure of the patient is computed when the patient is determined to be at rest.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the instructions for adjustment include a first feeding interval associated with the rate of delivery of the target feeding formula, and second non-feeding interval during which no enteral feeding is delivered, wherein the first and second intervals are iterated.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the target nutritional goal is calculated based on output of the carbon dioxide sensor alone when output of the flow sensor is not available, and an estimated value for a respiratory quotient (RQ).
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a nitrogen measurement outputted by a nitrogen sensor associated with a urine output collection device that collects urine outputted by the patient, and wherein the energy expenditure is further computed according to the nitrogen measurement.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing an amount of supplemental protein to meet enteral feeding requirements of the patient based on the computed energy expenditure, wherein the amount of supplemental protein is computed based on the target feeding formula in view of available formulation stored in a database storing records of different feeding formulas of enteral feeding formulation, wherein the supplemental protein when added to a selected available formulation does not significantly affect a computed caloric and/or volumetric feed rate of the available formulation to trigger a re-computation of the feeding rate of the available formulation.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: matching the computed target nutritional goal to at least one record of an available feeding formula stored in a database storing records of different feeding formulas, wherein the instructions for adjustment are generated based on the matched at least one record.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein when at least one record is matched to the target nutritional goal, further comprising presenting on a display the at least one record, and receiving via a user interface a selection of a certain record from the presented at least one record, wherein the instructions for adjustment are generated according to the selected certain record.
9. The method according to claim 8, further comprising computing a score indicative of similarity between each respective record and the target nutritional goal, and presenting the score in association with each respective record, wherein when no records are matched to the target nutritional goal, further comprising independently matching a plurality of component sets of the target nutritional goalto respective a plurality of records, wherein each of a plurality of instructions for adjustment is generated according to a respective matched record of the plurality of records, and wherein a first set of components denotes arbitrary components matched to a first formulation, and a second set of components denotes a pure protein component matched to a second formulation, wherein a first set of instructions is generated for enteral feeding of the first formulation at a first rate, and a second set of instructions is generated for enteral feeding of the second formulation at a second rate.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the target feeding formula is computed based on an aggregation of data collected from a plurality of sampled individuals, wherein the target feeding formula is computed according to a likelihood of obtaining a positive outcome.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated instructions include a first set of instructions for delivery of a first enteral feeding formulation at a first rate, and a second set of instructions for delivery of a second enteral feeding formulation at a second rate, wherein the first set of instructions and the second set of instructions control a feed selecting mechanism that selects between a first tube that delivers the first enteral feeding formulation at the first rate and a second tube that delivers the second enteral feeding formulation at the second rate, wherein the first tube and the second tube connect into a combined tube that provides enteral feeding of the patient.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy expenditure is dynamically computed as a rate of energy expenditure for a predefined time duration during which the output of the carbon dioxide sensor and the flow sensor are obtained, and wherein the feeding rate provided by the enteral feeding controller is dynamically adjusted to match the rate of energy expenditure within a tolerance requirement.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the generated instructions define a feeding rate set below a reflux feeding level estimated to trigger reflux of the enteral feeding by the patient, computed based on collected gastro residual volume (GRV).
14. The method of claim 1, wherein a feeding rate for delivery of the target feeding formula defined by the instructions is further adjusted based a collected gastro residual volume (GRV), and based on weight, and volume of the selected target feeding formula delivered by the enteral feeding controller.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy expenditure is computed based on a Weir or corresponding equations, and based on metabolic rate estimated from oxygen consumption computed based on output of the flow sensor and carbon dioxide production computed based on output of the carbon dioxide sensor.
16. The method of claim 1, further comprising: setting an initial feeding rate by the enteral feeding controller independently of the output of the carbon dioxide sensor and the flow sensor; computing a mismatch between the computed energy expenditure and the initial feeding rate state; wherein the generated instructions include instructions for adjusting the initial feeding rate of the enteral feeding controller according to the computed mismatch.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy expenditure comprises a prediction of future energy expenditure computed by machine learning code instructions trained according to previously observed patterns.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the rate of delivery of the target feeding formula is further computed according to historical feeding performance of the patient indications.
19. A system for adjusting enteral feeding of a patient by an enteral feeding controller, comprising: a non-transitory memory having stored there a code for execution by at least one hardware processor of a computing system, the code comprising: code for receiving output of a carbon dioxide sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; code for receiving output of a flow sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; code for computing energy expenditure of the patient based on the output of the carbon dioxide sensor and the flow sensor; code for computing a target nutritional goal for the enteral feeding that provides 100% or near 100% of the computed energy expenditure of the patient irrespective of a predictive equation; code for selecting a target feeding formula from a plurality of feeding formulas according to the target nutritional goal; code for generating instructions for adjustment, by an enteral feeding controller, for delivery of the target feeding formula; and code for providing the generated instructions to the enteral feeding controller via a communication interface coupled to said at least one hardware processor to deliver enteral feedings to the patient via an enteral feeding tube from at least one feed inlet of at least one feeding tube according to at least one of a feeding rate and a feeding composition defined by the generated instructions.
20. A computer program product for adjusting enteral feeding of a patient by an enteral feeding controller, comprising: a non-transitory memory having stored there a code for execution by at least one hardware processor of a computing system, the code comprising: instructions for receiving output of a carbon dioxide sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; instructions for receiving output of a flow sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient; instructions for computing energy expenditure of the patient based on the flow measurement and the carbon dioxide measurement; instructions for computing a target nutritional goal for the enteral feeding that provides 100% or near 100% of the computed energy expenditure of the patient irrespective of a predictive equation; instructions for selecting a target feeding formula from a plurality of feeding formulas according to the target nutritional goal; instructions for generating instructions for adjustment, by an enteral feeding controller, for delivery of the target feeding formula; and instructions for providing the generated instructions to the enteral feeding controller via a communication interface coupled to said at least one hardware processor to deliver enteral feedings to the patient via an enteral feeding tube from at least one feed inlet of at least one feeding tube according to at least one of a feeding rate and a feeding composition defined by the generated instructions.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving output of an oxygen sensor that senses at least one of inspiration and expiration of the patient, wherein the energy expenditure is computed based on the flow measurement, the carbon dioxide measurement and the oxygen measurement.
</claims>
</document>
