<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/05,G06K9/00,G06T5/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/38,G06T7/564,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TEL HASHOMER MEDICAL RESEARCH INFRASTRUCTURE AND SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DADIANI, MAYA
SKLAIR-LEVY, MIRIAM
MAYER, ARNALDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59581982
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for automated characterization of solid tumors using medical imaging
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for automated characterization of solid tumors using medical imaging. The system comprises an interface that is configured to acquire data from medical imaging devices, one or more processors, and an outputting device that reports the characterization of said solid tumor. The method of automated characterization, which is implemented by the system, acquires a sequence of images from the medical imager using a Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) imaging protocol, performs image registration, detects the contour of the solid tumor, and dividing the contours to segments. For each segment, the method calculating a displacement of the contrast material, fitting the displacement to a flow model and extracting an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity. The estimated interstitial fluid velocity of the segments provide characterization of the solid tumor and includes an assessment of the tumor interstitial fluid pressure, the tumor drug delivery efficiency, and the tumor prognostic or metastasis risk.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automated characterization of solid tumors in mammalian tissue, using medical imaging, the method comprising: (a) acquiring a sequence of images of mammalian tissue, captured with a medical imager using a Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) imaging protocol; (b) performing image registration of the sequence of images to align the sequence of images and compensate for at least one of the following: patient movements, respiration movement, and gravity effects; (c) if a solid tumor is present, detecting a contour of said solid tumor in each one of said post; contrast images, among said sequence of images; (d) dividing said contours to segments, and matching segments that are related to different images, in the sequence of images; (e) calculating a displacement of the contrast material of the DCE protocol between each of said matched segments; (f) fitting said displacements to a fluid flow model, and extracting for each segment, an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity; (g) conditioned upon one or more of said estimations of said interstitial fluid velocity of said segments, calculating and reporting a characterization of the solid tumor, wherein said characterization comprises an assessment for at least one of or any combination of: the tumor or peri-tumor interstitial fluid velocity, the tumor interstitial fluid pressure, the tumor drug delivery efficiency, or the tumor prognostic or metastasis risk, wherein step (e) and step (f) further comprise preparing a spatial-temporal data vector of the segment, inputting said spatial-temporal data vector into an artificial neural network that is pre-trained to provide an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity of the segment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (g) only a portion of the segment interstitial fluid velocity estimations are used in calculating said solid tumor characterization.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein step (f) further comprises extracting, for each segment, an estimation of an attenuation coefficient of the interstitial fluid flow model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein in step (c) the contour is detected using a Distance Regularized Level Set Evolution (DRLSE) algorithm.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) comprises an initial contour guess, either manually marked by a radiologist, or automatically detected by at least one of or any combination of the following algorithms: (1) K-means, (2) Mean-shift, (3) Expectation-Maximization fitting, and (4) edge detection.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein step (c) further comprises smoothing the contour.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein calculating the displacement in step (e) is based on the Hausdorff distance between segments.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein fitting said displacements to a fluid flow model in step (f) is performed using a non-linear least squares regression analysis.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises providing maps of interstitial fluid velocities at the contour of said solid tumor.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said medical imager is at least one of or any combination of: (a) X-ray tomography imager, (b) magnetic resonance imager (MRI), (c) Positron emission tomography (PET), (d) Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and (e) an ultrasound imager.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said segments in step (d) are extracted from a single image slice, wherein the tumor is seen largest in this slice.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said segments in step (d) are extracted from a plurality of image slices.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein said segments in step (d) are two-dimensional (2D) surfaces patches extracted from the images.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein steps (e) and step (f) are replaced with the steps of preparing a spatial-temporal data vector of the segment, and inputting said spatial-temporal data vector into an artificial neural network that is pre-trained to provide an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity of the segment.
15. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing a program causing a computer to execute the method of characterization of solid tumors of claim 1.
16. A computing system for automated characterization of solid tumors, the computing system comprising: i. an interface, wherein the interface is configured to acquire data from medical imaging system; ii. one or more processors, wherein the processors are configured to perform the following: (a) acquire a sequence of images from a medical imager using a Dynamic Contrast Enhanced (DCE) imaging protocol; (b) perform image registration of the sequence of images to align the sequence of images and compensate for at least one of the following: patient movements, respiration movement, and gravity effects; (c) if a solid tumor is present, detect a contour of said solid tumor in each one of said post contrast images, among said sequence of images; (d) divide said contours to segments, and match segments that are related to different images, in the sequence of images; (e) calculate a displacement of the contrast material of the DCE protocol between each of said matched segments; (f) fit said displacements to a fluid flow model, and extract for each segment, an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity; (g) conditioned upon one or more of said estimations of said interstitial fluid velocity of said segments, calculate and report a characterization of the solid tumor, wherein said characterization comprises an assessment for at least one of or any combination of: the tumor or peri-tumor interstitial fluid velocity, the tumor interstitial fluid pressure, the tumor drug delivery efficiency, or the tumor prognostic or metastasis risk; and iii. outputting device that reports the characterization of said solid tumor, wherein step (e) and step (f) further comprise preparing a spatial-temporal data vector of the segment, inputting said spatial-temporal data vector into an artificial neural network that is pre-trained to provide an estimation of the interstitial fluid velocity of the segment.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the acquired data is data from a magnetic resonance imager (MRI).
18. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the acquired data is data from an X-ray tomography imager.
19. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the acquired data is data from is at least one of or any combination of: (a) X-ray tomography imager, (b) magnetic resonance imager (MRI), (c) Positron emission tomography (PET), (d) Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), and (e) Ultrasound imager.
</claims>
</document>
