<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/58,H04W4/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHOU, YANG
JI, HAIFENG
LIM, JOONHYUNG
ARBABI, REZA
MACZKA, MICHAEL
COULLON, DAMIEN ALBERT LOUIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70973199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Propensity-based SMS invitation filtering
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide a system for propensity-based SMS (Short Message Service) invitation filtering. During operation, the system collects multiple contact numbers associated with multiple invitation requests into a total set of contact numbers. Then, for one or more of the contact numbers, the system determines a propensity for a person associated with the contact number to click on a link in an electronic invitation sent to the contact number and subsequently create an account. Clicking on the link may connect the person to a user community that he or she has been invited to join. Once the propensity has been determined, the system ranks the contact numbers in the total set of contact numbers according to the propensities. Finally, for each contact number in the total set of contact numbers that is ranked above a specified threshold, the system processes an invitation for the contact number.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving multiple electronic invitation requests from one or more members of a user community; aggregating multiple contact numbers associated with the multiple invitation requests into an aggregated set of contact numbers; for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers, determining a propensity for a person associated with the contact number to click on a link in an electronic invitation that would be sent to the contact number when an associated invitation request is processed, wherein said determining comprises: extracting from the associated invitation request, with one or more computer systems, a first set of features associated with a location in which the electronic invitation is to be delivered; identifying, with the one or more computer systems, a second set of features associated with an inviter that initiated the associated invitation request, including a number of invitations initiated by the inviter; and executing a propensity model on the one or more computer systems, using the first set of features and the second set of features, to yield the propensity; ranking the contact numbers in the aggregated set of contact numbers according to the propensities; and for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers that is ranked above a specified threshold, sending an invitation to the contact number.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the propensity for the person associated with the contact number to click on the link in the electronic invitation sent to the contact number in response to the associated invitation request further comprises: identifying a third set of features associated with the person; and further applying the propensity model to the third set of features.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of features includes at least one of: a country code associated with the contact number; and a cross-country indicator.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the second set of features includes at least one of: a total number of invitations initiated by the inviter; a number of SMS invitations initiated by the inviter; a number of email invites initiated by the inviter; a count of days since the inviter joined a user community associated with the invitation request; a measure of the inviter's connections within the user community; an industry in which the inviter is employed; a user interface of an electronic device operated by the inviter; a local time of the inviter; and an OS group.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the third set of features includes at least one of: a dialing area code; within a user community associated with the invitation request, a total count of members connected to the person; a phone contact label; a total of SMS invitations received by the person; and a triangles connection.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the invitation involves: determining a preferred time to send the invitation to the contact number.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein sending the invitation involves sending the invitation as a Short Message Service (SMS) message.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising filtering the aggregated set of contact numbers to remove a subset of contact numbers from the aggregated set of contact numbers.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive multiple electronic invitation requests from one or more members of a user community; aggregate multiple contact numbers associated with the multiple invitation requests into an aggregated set of contact numbers; for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers, determine a propensity for a person associated with the contact number to click on a link in an electronic invitation that would be sent to the contact number when an associated invitation request is processed, wherein said determining comprises: extracting from the associated invitation request a first set of features associated with a location in which the electronic invitation is to be delivered; identifying a second set of features associated with an inviter that initiated the associated invitation request, including a number of invitations initiated by the inviter; and applying a propensity model to the first set of features and the second set of features to yield the propensity; rank the contact numbers in the aggregated set of contact numbers according to the propensities; and for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers that is ranked above a specified threshold, send an invitation to the contact number.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein determining the propensity for the person associated with the contact number to click on the link in the electronic invitation sent to the contact number in response to the associated invitation request further comprises: identifying a third set of features associated with the person; and further applying the propensity model to the third set of features.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the first set of features include at least one of: a country code associated with the contact number; and a cross-country indicator.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second set of features include at least one of: a total number of invitations initiated by the inviter; a number of SMS invitations initiated by the inviter; a number of email invites initiated by the inviter; a count of days since the inviter joined a user community associated with the invitation request; a measure of the inviter's connections within the user community; an industry in which the inviter is employed; a user interface of an electronic device operated by the inviter; a local time of the inviter; and an OS group.
13. The apparatus of claim 10, wherein the third set of features include at least one of: a dialing area code; within a user community associated with the invitation request, a total count of members connected to the person; a phone contact label; a total of SMS invitations received by the person; and a triangles connection.
14. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein sending the invitation involves: determining a preferred time to send the invitation to the contact number.
15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein sending the invitation involves sending the invitation as a Short Message Service (SMS) message.
16. The apparatus of claim 9, further comprising filtering the aggregated set of contact numbers to remove a subset of contact numbers from the aggregated set of contact numbers.
17. A system, comprising: an aggregation mechanism comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the system to: receive multiple electronic invitation requests from one or more members of a user community; and aggregate multiple contact numbers associated with the multiple invitation requests into an aggregated set of contact numbers; a propensity mechanism comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the system to, for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers, determine a propensity for a person associated with the contact number to click on a link in an electronic invitation that would be sent to the contact number when an associated invitation request is processed, wherein said determining comprises: extracting from the associated invitation request a first set of features associated with a location in which the electronic invitation is to be delivered; identifying a second set of features associated with an inviter that initiated the associated invitation request, including a number of invitations initiated by the inviter; and applying a propensity model to the first set of features and the second set of features to yield the propensity; a ranking mechanism comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the system to rank the contact numbers in the aggregated set of contact numbers according to the propensities; and a processing mechanism comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause the system to, for each contact number in the aggregated set of contact numbers that is ranked above a specified threshold, send an invitation to the contact number.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein determining the propensity for the person associated with the contact number to click on the link in the electronic invitation sent to the contact number in response to the associated invitation request further comprises: identifying a third set of features associated with the person; and further applying the propensity model to the third set of features.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein sending the invitation involves: determining a preferred time to send the invitation to the contact number.
20. The system of claim 17, wherein sending the invitation involves sending the invitation as a Short Message Service (SMS) message.
</claims>
</document>
