<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/0346,G06F3/038
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
REN, JINKUI
LIANG ZHIQIANG
LI, TINGQIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59088826
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Time domain feature transform for user gestures
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for recognizing a gesture in a wearable device are disclosed. The system may sense a plurality of sensor measurements during a gesture sensing session, and down-sample the measurements using an adaptive down-sampling interval. The adaptive down-sampling interval may be determined based at least on a fractional part of a ratio of a frame length of the sensor measurements to a specified target length shorter than the frame length. The magnitude of the down-sampled measurements is normalized, and a feature vector may be generated using the normalized measurements. A gesture recognizer module may associate a gesture with the feature vector using gesture classification.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for recognizing a gesture in a wearable device, the system comprising: a signal processor module, including: a resampler module to down-sample a plurality of sensor measurements with a frame length using an adaptive down-sampling interval to produce down-sampled measurements with a target length shorter than the frame length, the adaptive down-sampling interval determined based at least on a fractional part of a ratio of the frame length to the target length; a normalizer module to normalize the magnitude of the down-sampled measurements to produce normalized measurements; and a feature generator module to generate a feature vector using the normalized measurements; and a gesture recognizer module to associate a gesture with the feature vector.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the resampler module is to generate a representative value of sensor measurements within each of a plurality of data blocks, each data block having a respective length equal to the adaptive down-sampling interval; and wherein the resampler module is to produce the down-sampled measurements using the representative values of the plurality of data blocks.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the resampler module further includes an average filter module to generate the representative value including an average value of the sensor measurements within each data block.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the resampler module is to: determine an integer part (RI) and a fractional part (RF) of a ratio of the frame length to the targeted length; accumulate the RF for each resampling operation; and determine the adaptive down-sampling interval as a function of the RI and the accumulated RF.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the resampler module is to: in response to the accumulated RF being less than one, set the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI; and in response to the accumulated RF being greater than or equal to one, set the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI −1, and update the accumulated RF by subtracting one from the accumulated RF.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the normalizer module includes a quantization module to quantize the down-sampled measurements to a specified range.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a sensor module including a sense amplifier to sense the plurality of sensor measurements during a gesture sensing session.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the sensor module includes at least one of an accelerometer module to produce a plurality of acceleration measurements or a gyroscope module to produce a plurality of orientation measurements.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the feature vector generation module is to generate a feature vector including morphological features extracted from the normalized measurements.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the gesture recognizer module is to associate a gesture with the feature vector by classifying the feature vector into one of a plurality of specified target gesture classes.
11. A method for recognizing a gesture in a wearable device, the method comprising: sensing, using a sensor module, a plurality of sensor measurements with a frame length during a device gesture sensing session; determining an adaptive down-sampling interval based at least on a fractional part of a ratio of the frame length to a specified target length shorter than the frame length; down-sampling the plurality of sensor measurements using the adaptive down-sampling interval to produce down-sampled measurements with the target length; normalizing a magnitude of the down-sampled measurements to produce normalized measurements; generating a feature vector using the normalized measurements; and associating a gesture with the feature vector.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein down-sampling the plurality of sensor measurements includes generating a representative value of sensor measurements within each of a plurality of data blocks, each data block having a respective length equal to the adaptive down-sampling interval, and down-sampling the representative values of the plurality of data blocks.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein down-sampling the plurality of sensor measurements includes: determining an integer part (RI) and a fractional part (RF) of a ratio of the frame length to the targeted length; accumulating the RF for each resampling operation; determining the adaptive down-sampling interval as a function of the RI and the accumulated RF.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the adaptive down-sampling interval includes: in response to the accumulated RF being less than one, setting the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI; and in response to the accumulated RF being greater than or equal to one, setting the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI −1, and updating the accumulated RF by subtracting one from the accumulated RF.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein normalizing the magnitude of the down-sampled measurements includes quantizing the down-sampled measurements to a specified range.
16. At least one non-transitory machine readable storage medium, comprising a plurality of instructions that, responsive to being executed with processor circuitry of a computing device, cause the computing device to: sense, using a sensor module, a plurality of sensor measurements with a frame length during a device gesture sensing session; determine an adaptive down-sampling interval based at least on a fractional part of a ratio of the frame length to a specified target length shorter than the frame length; down-sample the plurality of sensor measurements using the adaptive down-sampling interval to produce down-sampled measurements with the target length; normalize a magnitude of the down-sampled measurements to produce normalized measurements; generate a feature vector using the normalized measurements; and associate a gesture with the feature vector.
17. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: the operations that down-sample the plurality of sensor measurements include operations that generate a representative value of sensor measurements within each of a plurality of data blocks, each data block having a respective length equal to the adaptive down-sampling interval; and the operations that down-sample the plurality of sensor measurements include operations that down-sample the representative values of the plurality of data blocks.
18. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations that down-sample the plurality of sensor measurements further include operations that: determine an integer part (RI) and a fractional part (RF) of a ratio of the frame length to the targeted length; accumulate the RF for each resampling operation; and determine the adaptive down-sampling interval as a function of the RI and the accumulated RF.
19. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations that determine the adaptive down-sampling interval include operations that: set the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI in response to the accumulated RF being less than one; and set the adaptive down-sampling interval to RI −1 and update the accumulated RF by subtracting one from the accumulated RF in response to the accumulated RF being greater than or equal to one.
20. The at least one non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the operations that associate the gesture with the feature vector include operations that classify the feature vector into one of a plurality of specified target gesture classes.
</claims>
</document>
