<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0485,G06T19/00,G06T19/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPATIAL SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NG, PETER
LEE, JINHA
REVZIN, ROMAN
AGARAWALA, ANAND
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68097181
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Augmented reality computing environments—workspace save and load
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein are system, method, and computer program product embodiments for saving and loading workspaces in augmented reality (AR) environments. An embodiment operates by receiving a selection of an AR meeting space to open in a current physical location, wherein AR meeting space was previously configured for a remote physical location different from the current physical location. A selection of an AR meeting space to open in a current physical location is received. An arrangement of one or more digital objects of the selected AR meeting space is determined. A current anchor area within the current physical location that corresponds to a remote anchor area of the remote physical location is identified. The arrangement of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space is modified in the current physical location based on an alignment of the current anchor area with the remote anchor area.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a request to open an augmented reality (AR) meeting space in a current physical location, wherein the AR meeting space comprises a plurality of holographic representations each corresponding to a digital object arranged within a three-dimensional space on a plurality of surfaces configured based on a size of a remote physical location different from the current physical location; determining an arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space relative to a remote anchor area in the remote physical location; identifying a current anchor area within the current physical location that corresponds to the remote anchor area; determining that a variance between a size of the current physical location and the size of the remote physical location exceeds a threshold, wherein the threshold indicates whether the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations is to be modified based on the variance; modifying the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space in the current physical location on the plurality of surfaces in the current physical location based on an alignment of the current anchor area with the remote anchor area and the determination that the variance exceeds the threshold; and displaying the modified arrangement of the AR meeting space, including the holographic representations of the one or more digital objects, in the current physical location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying comprises: determining that the current anchor area corresponds to a first wall of the current physical location that is smaller than a second wall corresponding to the remote anchor area of the remote physical location; determining a digital canvas corresponding to a size of the second wall, wherein at least one or more of the plurality of digital objects were arranged on the digital canvas; reducing a size of the digital canvas to fit on the first wall; and changing at least one of a location or a size of one or more of the digital objects, that were arranged on the digital canvas corresponding to the second wall, on the reduced size digital canvas aligned with the first wall.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the changing comprises: reducing the size of one or more of the digital objects on the reduced size digital canvas based on a relative size of the first wall to the second wall.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising: determining that a subset of the one or more digital objects are not visible on the reduced size digital canvas aligned with the first wall; and providing scrollability on the reduced size digital canvas via a scrollability icon, wherein the subset of the one or more digital objects that are not visible on the reduced size digital canvas are visually accessible via a selection of the scrollability icon on the reduced size digital canvas.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying comprises: determining that the current anchor area corresponds to a first wall of the current physical location that is smaller than a second wall corresponding to the remote anchor area of the remote physical location; determining a digital canvas corresponding to a size of the second wall, wherein at least one or more of the plurality of digital objects were arranged on the digital canvas; and displaying the digital canvas in the AR meeting space, wherein at least a portion of the digital canvas including one or more of the plurality of digital objects are displayed as extending through the first wall.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving an AR command to access one of the digital objects on the portion of the digital canvas displayed as extending through the first wall, wherein the displayed digital objects on the digital canvas, including the one or more plurality of digital objects on the portion remains accessible to a user within the AR meeting space.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the plurality of digital objects correspond to one or more shared files of an application, wherein content of a first one of the shared files is displayed on a digital canvas in the AR meeting space.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: detecting a change to the content of the first one of the shared files, wherein the change is associated with functionality performed by a non-AR computing device; and providing the change to content as it is displayed on the digital canvas.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the modifying the arrangement comprises: comparing a scan of the current physical location to the remote physical location; and modifying the arrangement based on the comparison of the scans.
10. A system comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive a request to open an augmented reality (AR) meeting space in a current physical location, wherein the AR meeting space comprises a plurality of holographic representations each corresponding to a digital object arranged within a three-dimensional space on a plurality of surfaces configured based on a size of a remote physical location different from the current physical location; determine an arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space relative to a remote anchor area in the remote physical location; identify a current anchor area within the current physical location that corresponds to the remote anchor area; determine that a variance between a size of the current physical location and the size of the remote physical location exceeds a threshold, wherein the threshold indicates whether the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations is to be modified based on the variance; modify the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space in the current physical location on the plurality of surfaces in the current physical location based on an alignment of the current anchor area with the remote anchor area and the determination that the variance exceeds the threshold; and display the modified arrangement of the AR meeting space, including the holographic representations of the one or more digital objects, in the current physical location.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor that modifies is configured to: determine that the current anchor area corresponds to a first wall of the current physical location that is smaller than a second wall corresponding to the remote anchor area of the remote physical location; determine a digital canvas corresponding to a size of the second wall, wherein at least one or more of the plurality of digital objects were arranged on the digital canvas; reduce a size of the digital canvas to fit on the first wall; and change at least one of a location or a size of one or more of the digital objects, that were arranged on the digital canvas corresponding to the second wall, on the reduced size digital canvas aligned with the first wall.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor that changes is configured to: reduce the size of one or more of the digital objects on the reduced size digital canvas based on a relative size of the first wall to the second wall.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine that a subset of the one or more digital objects are not visible on the reduced size digital canvas aligned with the first wall; and provide scrollability on the reduced size digital canvas via a scrollability icon, wherein the subset of the one or more digital objects that are not visible on the reduced size digital canvas are visually accessible via a selection of the scrollability icon on the reduced size digital canvas.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the at least one processor that modifies is configured to: determine that the current anchor area corresponds to a first wall of the current physical location that is smaller than a second wall corresponding to the remote anchor area of the remote physical location; determine a digital canvas corresponding to a size of the second wall, wherein at least one or more of the plurality of digital objects were arranged on the digital canvas; and display the digital canvas in the AR meeting space, wherein at least a portion of the digital canvas including one or more of the plurality of digital objects are displayed as extending through the first wall.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: receive an AR command to access one of the digital objects on the portion of the digital canvas displayed as extending through the first wall, wherein the displayed digital objects on the digital canvas, including the one or more plurality of digital objects on the portion of the digital canvas, remains accessible to a user within the AR meeting space.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein one or more of the plurality of digital objects correspond to one or more shared files of an application, wherein content of a first one of the shared files is displayed on a digital canvas in the AR meeting space.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: detect a change to the content of the first one of the shared files, wherein the change is associated with functionality performed by a non-AR computing device; and provide the change to content as it is displayed on the digital canvas.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable device having instructions stored thereon that, when executed by at least one computing device, cause the at least one computing device to perform operations comprising: receiving a request to open an augmented reality (AR) meeting space in a current physical location, wherein the AR meeting space comprises a plurality of holographic representations each corresponding to a digital object arranged within a three-dimensional space on a plurality of surfaces configured based on a size of a remote physical location different from the current physical location; determining an arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space relative to a remote anchor area in the remote physical location; identifying a current anchor area within the current physical location that corresponds to the remote anchor area; determining that a variance between a size of the current physical location and the size of the remote physical location exceeds a threshold, wherein the threshold indicates whether the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations is to be modified based on the variance; modifying the arrangement of the plurality of holographic representations of the one or more digital objects of the AR meeting space in the current physical location on the plurality of surfaces in the current physical location based on an alignment of the current anchor area with the remote anchor area and the determination that the variance exceeds the threshold; and displaying the modified arrangement of the AR meeting space, including the holographic representations of the one or more digital objects, in the current physical location.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the modifying comprises: determining that the current anchor area corresponds to a first wall of the current physical location that is smaller than a second wall corresponding to the remote anchor area of the remote physical location; determining a digital canvas corresponding to a size of the second wall, wherein at least one or more of the plurality of digital objects were arranged on the digital canvas; reducing a size of the digital canvas to fit on the first wall; and changing at least one of a location or a size of one or more of the plurality of digital objects, that were arranged on the digital canvas corresponding to the second wall, on the reduced size digital canvas aligned with the first wall.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the changing comprises: reducing the size of one or more of the plurality of digital objects on the reduced size digital canvas based on a relative size of the first wall to the second wall.
</claims>
</document>
