<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N7/00,H04L12/707,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HOME BOX OFFICE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FURTWANGLER, BRANDON C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58671929
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Streaming media state machine
</title>

<abstract>
The described technology is directed towards having multiple paths through streamed media content, such as a video. The content may be represented as a state machine of states, in which each state corresponds to one or more periods of one or more segments, and transitions to one or more other states. When a state is able to transition to different states, one or more criteria may be used to select one of the transition paths to a next state. Segments corresponding to unknown paths (where the transition decision is not yet available) may be selected and streamed for buffering via a multiple path buffering mechanism.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating, by a system comprising a processor, a state machine for a content, wherein the state machine has respective nodes representing content periods of the content and respective edges representing transition paths between the nodes, wherein the respective nodes comprise transition rules defining conditions for selecting the transition paths, and at least one node comprises transition paths to a plurality of other nodes, and wherein the state machine comprises at least one loop amongst one or more of the nodes; and streaming, by the system, the content using different transition paths through the content to different clients based on the state machine, comprising: buffering a set of content periods, wherein the set contains a respective number of content periods from each path of the different transition paths, wherein each respective number is proportional to a rounded probability associated with respective corresponding path, and wherein lower-probability content periods in the set are buffered first; using the transition rules associated with a node representing a currently playing content period to determine which transition path associated with the node to select to transition to a next buffered content period for a client, wherein the transition rules use one or more criteria to determine which transition path to select, and wherein the one or more criteria comprise a predefined client preference for a particular camera angle in client profile data; and transmitting data for the next buffered content period to the client.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise camera angle data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise data from at least one social media source.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise client input data from the client.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise probability data associated with each transition path.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise selecting a different transition path for the client than a previously traversed transition path for the client from the node.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise age based rating content viewing restrictions.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise a client preference for a particular genre.
9. A system, comprising: a processor, communicatively coupled to a memory that stores computer-executable instructions, that executes or facilitates execution of the computer-executable instructions to perform operations, the operations comprising: generating a state machine for a content, wherein the state machine has respective nodes representing content periods of the content and respective edges representing transition paths between the nodes, wherein the respective nodes comprise transition rules defining conditions for selecting the transition paths, and at least one node comprises transition paths to a plurality of other nodes, and wherein the state machine comprises at least one loop amongst one or more nodes; and streaming the content using different transition paths through the content to different clients based on the state machine, including: buffering a set of content periods, wherein the set contains a respective number of content periods from each path of the different transition paths, wherein each respective number is proportional to a rounded probability associated with respective corresponding path, and wherein lower-probability content periods in the set are buffered first; using the transition rules associated with a node representing a currently playing content period to determine which transition path associated with the node to select to transition to a next buffered content period for a client, wherein the transition rules use one or more criteria to determine which transition path to select, and wherein the one or more criteria comprise a predefined client preference for a particular camera angle in client profile data; and transmitting data for the next buffered content period to the client.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise camera angle data.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise data from at least one social media source.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise client input data from the client.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise probability data associated with each transition path.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise selecting a different transition path for the client than a previously traversed transition path for the client from the node.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise age based rating content viewing restrictions.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise a client preference for a particular genre.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution, cause a system including a processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: generating a state machine for a content, wherein the state machine has respective nodes representing content periods of the content and respective edges representing transition paths between the nodes, wherein the respective nodes comprise transition rules defining conditions for selecting the transition paths, and at least one node comprises transition paths to a plurality of other nodes, and wherein the state machine comprises at least one loop amongst one or more nodes; and streaming the content using different transition paths through the content to different clients based on the state machine, including: buffering a set of content periods, wherein the set contains a respective number of content periods from each path of the different transition paths, wherein each respective number is proportional to a rounded probability associated with respective corresponding path, and wherein lower-probability content periods in the set are buffered first; using the transition rules associated with a node representing a currently playing content period to determine which transition path associated with the node to select to transition to a next buffered content period for a client, wherein the transition rules use one or more criteria to determine which transition path to select, and wherein the one or more criteria comprise a predefined client preference for a particular camera angle in client profile data; and transmitting data for the next buffered content period to the client.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise data from at least one social media source.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise client input data from the client.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more criteria further comprise probability data associated with each transition path.
</claims>
</document>
