<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G06N3/08,G11C13/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MACRONIX INTERNATIONAL COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUNG, CHUN-HSIUNG
YANG, SHANG-CHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72335450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
In-memory computation device with inter-page and intra-page data circuits
</title>

<abstract>
An in-memory computation device is described that comprises a memory with a plurality of blocks B(n) of cells, where n ranges from 0 to N−1. A page output circuit PO(n) and page input circuit PI(n) are operatively coupled to block B(n) in the plurality of sets. A data bus system for providing an external source of input data and a destination for output data is provided. Data circuits are configurable connect page input circuit PI(n) to one or more of page output circuit PO(n), page output circuit PO(n−1), and the data bus system to source the page input data in a sensing cycle. This configuration can be done between each sensing cycle, or in longer intervals, in order to support a variety of neural network configurations and operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An in-memory computation device, comprising: a memory including a plurality of blocks B(n), where n ranges from 0 to N−1; a plurality of page output circuits PO(n), where n ranges from 0 to N−1, connected to the memory; a plurality of page input circuits PI(n), where n ranges from 0 to N−1, connected to the memory and responsive to a page input data to apply a bias to the memory in a sensing cycle; the plurality of page output circuits, the plurality of page input circuits and the plurality of blocks being operatively coupled, so that a page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits and a page input circuit PI(n) in the plurality of page input circuits being operatively coupled to a block B(n) in the plurality of blocks, where n ranges from 0 to N−1; a data bus system; and data circuits configurable connect the page input circuit PI(n) to one or more of the page output circuit PO(n), the page output circuit PO(n−1), and the data bus system to select a source for the page input data in the sensing cycle.
2. The device of claim 1, including word line drivers coupled to the plurality of blocks in the memory to apply signals on word lines in the blocks, and wherein the page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits includes circuits that generate an output indicating a sum-of-signals on a set of bit lines in block B(n), responsive to a signal on a selected word line.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the page input circuit PI(n) includes bias circuitry responsive to the input data for biasing bit lines in the block B(n), wherein the signals on the bit lines represent a product of the input data and thresholds of memory cells coupled to the selected word line.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the page input circuit PI(n) includes bias circuitry responsive to the input data for biasing bit lines in the block B(n).
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the page input circuit PI(n) includes an input register connected to the data circuits, to store an input vector VI(n) including the page input data, and circuits to generate bias signals for bit lines in the block B(n) in response to the input vector VI(n).
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the block B(n) includes a number Z of bit lines, the input vector VI(n) includes Z chunks of M bits, and the page input circuit PI(n) includes digital-to-analog conversion circuits to convert chunks of M bits in the input vector VI(n) to Z analog bias voltages for corresponding bit lines in the block B(n).
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the memory cells in block B(n) on a selected word line store coefficient vector W(n), and the signals on the bit lines in the block B(n) represent a product of chunks in the input vector VI(n) and coefficients in the coefficient vector W(n) for the selected word line.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the page input circuit PI(n) includes an input register connected to the data circuits, to store an input vector VI(n) including the page input data, and circuits to generate bias signals for bit lines in the block B(n) in response to the input vector VI(n), and page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits generates an output vector VO(n).
9. The device of claim 8, wherein the input vector VI(n) includes Z chunks of M bits, and the page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits includes sensing circuits to generate an output including one or more chunks of M bits indicating a sum-of-signals on the bit lines in block B(n) in response to a word line signal on a selected word line, and an output register to store all or part of output vector VO(n) including the Z chunks of M bits.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the data circuits transfer all or part of output vector VO(n), including Z chunks of M bits as an input vector VI(n+1) to a page input circuit PI(n+1).
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the memory comprises nonvolatile memory cells.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the nonvolatile memory cells are charge trapping memory cells.
13. The device of claim 1, including word line drivers coupled to the plurality of blocks in the memory to apply signals on word lines in the blocks, and wherein the page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits includes circuits that generate an output indicating a sum-of-signals on one or more bit lines in block B(n), responsive to a signal or signals on one or more selected word lines; and wherein page input circuit PI(n) includes bias circuitry responsive to the input data for biasing word lines in the block B(n), wherein the signals on the bit lines represent a product of the input data and thresholds of memory cells coupled to the one or more selected word lines.
14. An in-memory computation device, comprising: a memory including a plurality of blocks B(n), where n ranges from 0 to N−1; a plurality of page output circuits connected to the memory, a page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits generating a page output vector VO(n), and being operatively coupled to a block B(n) in the plurality of blocks; a plurality of page input circuits connected to the memory, a page input circuit PI(n) in the plurality of page input circuits receiving a page input vector VI(n), and generating input voltages in response to the page input vector VI(n), and being operatively coupled to the block B(n); a plurality of bit line bias circuits connected to the plurality of blocks, a bit line bias circuit Y(n) in the plurality of bit line bias circuits being operatively coupled to the block B(n) in the plurality of blocks, and to the page input circuit PI(n) in the plurality of page input circuits, and biasing the bit lines in the block B(n) in response to input voltages generated by the page input circuit PI(n); a data bus system; and data circuits configurable connect the page input circuit PI(n) to one or more of the page output circuit PO(n), a page output circuit PO(n−1), and the data bus system to select a source for the page input vector VI(n) in a sensing cycle.
15. The device of claim 14, including word line drivers coupled to a plurality of word lines in the memory to apply signals on selected word lines in the plurality of blocks, and wherein the page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits includes circuits that generate page output vector VO(n) indicating a sum-of-signals on the bit lines in block B(n), responsive to a signal on a selected word line.
16. The device of claim 15, wherein the signals on the bit lines in the block B(n) represent a product of the page input vector VI(n) and thresholds of memory cells coupled to the selected word line.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the memory comprises nonvolatile memory cells.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the bit line bias circuit Y(n) in the plurality of bit line bias circuits comprises a bit line clamp transistor having agate terminal connected to receive corresponding input voltages generated by the page input circuit PI(n).
19. The device of claim 14, wherein the page input vector VI(n) includes a plurality of multi-bit chunks of data, each chunk in the plurality corresponding to one bit line in the block B(n).
20. An in-memory computation device, comprising: a memory including a plurality of blocks B(n), where n ranges from 0 to N−1; a plurality of page output circuits connected to the memory, a page output circuit PO(n) in the plurality of page output circuits generating a page output vector VO(n), and being operatively coupled to a block B(n) in the plurality of blocks; a plurality of page input circuits connected to the memory, a page input circuit PI(n) in the plurality of page input circuits receiving a page input vector VI(n), and generating input voltages in response to the page input vector VI(n), and being operatively coupled to the block B(n); a plurality of word line drivers connected to the plurality of blocks, a word line driver WD(n) in the plurality of word line drivers being operatively coupled to the block B(n) in the plurality of blocks, and to the page input circuit PI(n) in the plurality of page input circuits, and biasing the word lines in block B(n) in response to input voltages generated by the page input circuit PI(n); a data bus system; and data circuits configurable connect page input circuit PI(n) to one or more of page output circuit PO(n), page output circuit PO(n−1), and the data bus system to select a source for the page input vector VI(n) in a sensing cycle.
</claims>
</document>
