<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F9/54,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,H04B17/00,H04W24/02,H04W24/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUGHES NETWORK SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ARORA, AMIT
GHARPURAY, ARCHANA
KENYON, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67544450
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine learning clustering models for determining the condition of a communication system
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer programs encoded on a computer storage medium, for training and using machine learning clustering models to determine conditions a satellite communication system. In some implementations, feature vectors for a time period are obtained. Each feature vector includes feature values that represent properties of a satellite communication system at a respective time during the time period. Each feature vector is provided as input to a machine learning model that assigns the feature vector to a based on the properties of the satellite communication system represented by the feature vector. Each cluster corresponds to a respective potential operating condition of the satellite communication system. Data is generated that indicates a likelihood that each potential operating condition is the actual operating condition based on a quantity of the feature vectors that have been assigned to the cluster corresponding to the potential operating condition during the time period.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by one or more computers, the method comprising: obtaining, by the one or more computers, a set of feature vectors for a particular time period, each feature vector including feature values that represent properties of a satellite communication system at a respective time during the particular time period; providing, by the one or more computers, each feature vector in the set of feature vectors as input to a machine learning model, the machine learning model being trained to receive a feature vector that includes feature values representing properties of the satellite communication system and assign the feature vector to one of a plurality of clusters of feature vectors based on the properties of the satellite communication system represented by the feature vector, each cluster of the plurality of clusters corresponding to a respective potential operating condition of the satellite communication system; receiving, by the one or more computers and from the machine learning model, and, a machine learning model output for each feature vector, the machine learning output for each feature vector indicating a particular cluster to which the feature vector is assigned; and generating and providing data that indicates, for each of multiple potential operating conditions, a likelihood that the potential operating condition is the actual operating condition based on a quantity of the feature vectors that have been assigned to the cluster corresponding to the potential operating condition during the particular time period.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that at least a threshold number of feature vectors in the set of feature vectors have been assigned to a cluster corresponding to a particular potential operating condition and, in response, performing an action that resolves the particular potential operating condition.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein performing the action comprises generating and providing, to a network operator, an alert that indicates that the satellite communication system is experiencing the particular potential operating condition.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein performing the action comprises initiating an action that alters network operation of the satellite communication system by adjusting operation of at least one component of the satellite communication system.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein performing the action comprises initiating an action that alters network operation of the satellite communication system by: determining a most likely cause of the particular potential operating condition; and selecting the action that alters the operation of the satellite communication system to resolve the most likely cause.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein determining the cause of the particular potential operating condition comprises: providing one or more of the feature vectors in the set of feature vectors as input to one or more machine learning models that are each trained to receive at least one feature vector that includes feature values representing properties of the satellite communication system and output an indication of potential causes of a condition of the satellite communication system based on the properties of the satellite communication system; and receiving, from each of the one or more machine learning models, one or more machine learning model outputs that indicate one or more potential causes of a condition of the satellite communication system based on the properties of the satellite communication system represented by the one or more feature vectors.
7. The method of claim 2, wherein the visualization comprises, for each duster, an outline of the duster and a dot for each feature vector assigned to the cluster.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein each dot is presented at a respective location within the outline of the duster to which the feature vector represented by the dot, and wherein the respective location is based on feature values of the feature vector represented by the dot.
9. The method of claim 2, wherein the visualization comprises a bar chart, the bar chart comprising, for each cluster, (i) a first bar that represents a count of feature vectors for a first time period that have been assigned to the duster and (ii) a second bar that represents a count of feature vectors for a second time period that have been assigned to the cluster, wherein the first time period is different from the second time period.
10. The method of claim 2, further comprising visually updating the visualization each time a feature vector is assigned to a cluster.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining that at least a threshold number of feature vectors in a sequence of feature vectors have been assigned to a cluster corresponding to a particular potential operating condition and, in response, performing an action to resolve the particular potential operating condition.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein generating and providing data that indicates, for each of multiple potential operating conditions, a relative likelihood that a current operating condition of the satellite communication system is the potential operating condition comprises generating and providing a visualization of the number of feature vectors in the set of feature vectors assigned to each duster.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating the machine learning model, the updating comprising: receiving additional training data that includes a set of feature vectors that each include feature values that represent actual properties of the satellite communication system detected at a respective time; using the machine learning model to assign each feature vector in the set of feature vectors to a cluster; and determining an updated centroid for each duster based on feature vectors assigned to each cluster.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using the machine learning model to cluster feature vectors of a second satellite communication system different from the satellite communication system based on properties of the second satellite communication system; and updating the machine learning model for the second satellite communication system by determining an updated centroid for each cluster based on feature vectors for the second satellite communication system that have been assigned to each cluster.
15. A system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: obtaining, by the one or more computers, a set of feature vectors for a particular time period, each feature vector including feature values that represent properties of a satellite communication system at a respective time during the particular time period; providing, by the one or more computers, each feature vector in the set of feature vectors as input to a machine learning model, the machine learning model being trained to receive a feature vector that includes feature values representing properties of the satellite communication system and assign the feature vector to one of a plurality of clusters of feature vectors based on the properties of the satellite communication system represented by the feature vector, each cluster of the plurality of clusters corresponding to a respective potential operating condition of the satellite communication system; receiving, by the one or more computers and from the machine learning model, and, a machine learning model output for each feature vector, the machine learning output for each feature vector indicating a particular cluster to which the feature vector is assigned; and generating and providing data that indicates, for each of multiple potential operating conditions, a likelihood that the potential operating condition is the actual operating condition based on a quantity of the feature vectors that have been assigned to the cluster corresponding to the potential operating condition during the particular time period.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations comprise determining that at least a threshold number of feature vectors in the set of feature vectors have been assigned to a cluster corresponding to a particular potential operating condition and, in response, performing an action that resolves the particular potential operating condition.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein performing the action comprises generating and providing, to a network operator, an alert that indicates that the satellite communication system is experiencing the particular potential operating condition.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein performing the action comprises initiating an action that alters network operation of the satellite communication system by adjusting operation of at least one component of the satellite communication system.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein performing the action comprises initiating an action that alters network operation of the satellite communication system comprises: determining a most likely cause of the particular potential operating condition; and selecting the action that alters the operation of the satellite communication system to resolve the most likely cause.
20. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing instructions that, when executed by one or more computers, cause the one or more computers to perform operations comprising: obtaining, by the one or more computers, a set of feature vectors for a particular time period, each feature vector including feature values that represent properties of a satellite communication system at a respective time during the particular time period; providing, by the one or more computers, each feature vector in the set of feature vectors as input to a machine learning model, the machine learning model being trained to receive a feature vector that includes feature values representing properties of the satellite communication system and assign the feature vector to one of a plurality of clusters of feature vectors based on the properties of the satellite communication system represented by the feature vector, each cluster of the plurality of clusters corresponding to a respective potential operating condition of the satellite communication system; receiving, by the one or more computers and from the machine learning model, and, a machine learning model output for each feature vector, the machine learning output for each feature vector indicating a particular cluster to which the feature vector is assigned; and generating and providing data that indicates, for each of multiple potential operating conditions, a likelihood that the potential operating condition is the actual operating condition based on a quantity of the feature vectors that have been assigned to the cluster corresponding to the potential operating condition during the particular time period.
</claims>
</document>
