<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01D18/00,G01D21/00,G06F1/16,G06F17/40,G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06F3/0354,G06F3/038,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOKSVIG, MICHAEL JOHN, MCKENZIE
SHIRINFAR, SHAFIGH
HUGHES, CHARLES J.
MAGUIRE, YAEL G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52277778
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Calibration of grab detection
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes receiving sensor data from a number of sensors of the computing device. The sensor data corresponds to a particular state associated with the computing device. The method also includes determining a vector corresponding to the received sensor data; and comparing the vector with a pre-determined hyperplane. The hyperplane corresponds to a number of imminent uses of the computing device. The method also includes determining whether the particular state associated with the computing device corresponds to a particular one of the imminent uses of the computing device based on the comparison of the vector with the pre-determined hyperplane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: by a computing device, receiving sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the computing device, the sensor data corresponding to a particular state associated with the computing device; by the computing device, applying a convolution operation to the sensor data from the plurality of sensors to determine whether the sensor data chronologically overlap with one another; by the computing device, determining a vector corresponding to the received sensor data; by the computing device, comparing the vector with a pre-determined hyperplane, wherein the hyperplane separates a first set of vectors corresponding to a first state representing physical contact of a user with the computing device and a second set of vectors corresponding to a second state representing no physical contact of the user with the computing device, wherein comparing the vector with the pre-determined hyperplane comprises determining a position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane; by the computing device, classifying the vector into the first state or the second state based on the position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane; and by the computing device, determining a particular imminent use of the computing device based on the classification of the vector and the sensor data of multiple sensors chronologically overlapping.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving data defining the hyperplane, wherein the hyperplane is determined by classifying sensor data from a plurality of computing devices.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving updated data re-defining the hyperplane based at least in part on updated sensor data from a plurality of computing devices.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising calculating a derivative of the received sensor data from each sensor to detect a transition from the first state to the second state in the sensor data as a function of time.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the vector comprises a tuple of the received sensor data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the classification of the vector into the first state or the second state comprises determining whether the position of the vector is on a same side of the hyperplane as the first set of vectors or the second set of vectors.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of vectors and the second set of vectors are part of training data, wherein the training data comprises an array of values from sensors of a plurality of computing devices and a state value corresponding to one of imminent uses of each computing device.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising processing the received sensor data using the convolution operation.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the hyperplane is generated using a machine-learning algorithm comprising a support-vector machine (SVM), k-means, Bayesian inference, or neural network algorithm.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the hyperplane is determined by calculating a plurality of support vectors that each represent sensor data corresponding to the particular imminent use.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the hyperplane is defined by a set of points with a constant dot product with the support vector representing the particular imminent use.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining whether the vector is a non-event.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising initiating a pre-determined function of the computing device based on the determination of the particular imminent use.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the pre-determined function comprises powering on the computing device, unlocking the computing device, or bringing the computing device out of a power-saving state.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein: the computing device is a mobile computing device; and the particular imminent use corresponds to physical contact between the user and the computing device.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein one or more of the sensors comprises a touch sensor, gyroscope, accelerometer, optical proximity sensor, or ambient light sensor.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of vectors are determined from a first set of sensor data corresponding to activity associated with physical contact with the computing device and the second set of vectors are determined from a second set of sensor data corresponding to activity not associated with physical contact with the computing device.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein a dimension of the vector corresponds to a number of the plurality of sensors.
19. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software configured when executed to: receive sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the computing device, the sensor data corresponding to a particular state associated with the computing device; apply a convolution operation to the sensor data from the plurality of sensors to determine whether the sensor data chronologically overlap with one another; determine a vector corresponding to the received sensor data; compare the vector with a pre-determined hyperplane, wherein the hyperplane separates a first set of vectors corresponding to a first state representing physical contact of a user with the computing device and a second set of vectors corresponding to a second state representing no physical contact of the user with the computing device, wherein comparing the vector with the pre-determined hyperplane comprises determining a position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane classify the vector into the first state or the second state based on the position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane; and determine a particular imminent use of the computing device based on the classification of the vector and the sensor data of multiple sensors chronologically overlapping.
20. A device comprising: a processor; and one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media coupled to the processor and embodying software that: receive sensor data from a plurality of sensors of the computing device, the sensor data corresponding to a particular state associated with the computing device; apply a convolution operation to the sensor data from the plurality of sensors to determine whether the sensor data chronologically overlap with one another; determine a vector corresponding to the received sensor data; compare the vector with a pre-determined hyperplane, wherein the hyperplane separates a first set of vectors corresponding to a first state representing physical contact of a user with the computing device and a second set of vectors corresponding to a second state representing no physical contact of the user with the computing device, wherein comparing the vector with the pre-determined hyperplane comprises determining a position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane classify the vector into the first state or the second state based on the position of the vector relative to the pre-determined hyperplane; and determine a particular imminent use of the computing device based on the classification of the vector and the sensor data of multiple sensors chronologically overlapping.
</claims>
</document>
