<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,A61B6/03,G06T7/00,G06T7/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PULMONX CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
OLIVERA, RYAN
RADHAKRISHNAN, SRI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59496109
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods, systems, and devices for analyzing lung imaging data
</title>

<abstract>
Devices, methods, and systems are provided for analyzing lung imaging data. A server computing device receives imaging data of a lung over a network from a client computing device and analyzes the imaging data to identify lung, airways, and blood vessels, segment the lung into lobes, subtract airways, calculate volumes, calculate emphysema scores, identify fissure locations, calculate fissure completeness scores. A reconstruction of the fissures indicating locations where the fissures are incomplete and a report comprising fissure scores, volumes, and emphysema scores are created.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for analyzing computerized tomography data of a lung, the method comprising: receiving by a server computing device anonymized computerized tomography data of a lung over a network from a client computing device at a different location; analyzing the computerized tomography data, wherein analyzing the computerized tomography data comprises identifying the lung, airways, and blood vessels; segmenting the lung into five separate lobes; subtracting airways until at least the third generation; calculating volumes of the lobes; calculating emphysema scores for the lobes based on density masks; identifying fissure locations; calculating a fissure completeness score for each fissure, wherein the fissure completeness score of the right upper lobe is based on the completeness of the horizontal fissure and the portion of the right oblique fissure that separates the right upper lobe from the right lower lobe, and wherein the fissure completeness score of the right middle lobe is based on the completeness of the horizontal fissure and the portion of the right oblique fissure that separates the right middle lobe from the right lower lobe; creating a three-dimensional reconstruction of the fissures indicating locations where the fissures are incomplete; and creating a report comprising fissure completeness scores, volumes, and emphysema scores for each lobe.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising delivering the report over the network to the client computing device.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the report comprises patient selection information.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the report comprises personalized treatment planning information.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein personalized treatment planning information comprises identification of regions of interest.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein personalized treatment planning information comprises potential treatment sites and suggested treatments for the potential treatment sites.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving new anonymized computerized tomography data of the lung by the server computing device over a network after treatment; analyzing the new anonymized computerized tomography data; and comparing the lung after treatment to the lung before treatment to determine treatment success.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising improving patient selection, identification of regions of interest, or determination of treatment options through machine learning.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining airway diameters for lobar bronchi, segmental bronchi, and sub-segmental bronchi for each lobe; and determining a distance from an ostium to a distal carina for the lobar bronchi, segmental bronchi, and sub-segmental bronchi; wherein the report contains the determined airway diameters and distances.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the report comprises a three-dimensional airway model.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the report comprises a two-dimensional image of an entrance to an airway.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the report comprises a potential treatment site and a suggested implantable endobronchial valve having a diameter and length matching the diameter and distance determined for the potential treatment site.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the report comprises airway navigation information for accessing the potential treatment site, wherein the navigation information comprises turn-by-turn steps for accessing the potential treatment site.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the report further comprises a two-dimensional graphical representation of the lung with the five lobes identified; wherein the lobes are shaded or colored in the two-dimensional graphical representation to indicate the emphysema score; and wherein the fissures are identified in the two-dimensional graphical representation with lines that indicate the fissure completeness scores.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the lines that indicate fissure completeness scores are classified into different fissure completeness score categories with different line types based on the fissure completeness score; wherein the fissure completeness categories comprise a high completeness category corresponding to a fissure completeness score greater than a first predetermined value, a low completeness category corresponding to a fissure completeness score less than a second predetermined value, and an intermediate completeness category corresponding fissure completeness score between the first and second predetermined values.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the fissure line have shading, color, thickness, or solid versus dashed line to indicate the fissure completeness scores.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the report further comprises a three-dimensional graphical representation of the lung; wherein each lobe is identified in the three-dimensional graphical representation; wherein the lobes are shaded or colored in the three-dimensional graphical representation to indicate the emphysema score; and wherein the report contains multiple two-dimensional graphical representations of cross sections of the lung.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the three-dimensional graphical representation of the lung is rotatable to view the lung from multiple viewing angles.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the fissures are identified in the three-dimensional graphical representation with lines that indicate the fissure completeness scores.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the fissures are identified in the two-dimensional graphical representations of cross sections of the lung with lines that indicate the fissure completeness scores.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein analyzing the computerized tomography data further comprises segmenting the each lobe into separate lung segments; calculating volumes of the lung segments; and calculating emphysema scores for the segments based on density masks; and wherein the report comprises volumes and emphysema scores for each lung segment.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein analyzing the computerized tomography data further comprises segmenting each lung segment into separate lung sub-segments; calculating volumes of the lung sub-segments; and calculating emphysema scores for the sub-segments based on density masks; wherein the report comprises volumes and emphysema scores for each lung sub-segment.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the report further comprises a three-dimensional graphical representation of the lung; wherein each lung segment and lung sub-segment is identified in the three-dimensional graphical representation; wherein the lung segments and lung sub-segments are shaded or colored in the three-dimensional graphical representation to indicate the emphysema score; and wherein the report contains multiple two-dimensional graphical representations of cross sections of the lung.
24. The method of claim 22, wherein the report comprises a region of interest in contact with a location where a fissure is incomplete, a suggested therapeutic agent to be delivered at the region of interest, and a closest airway for treatment of the region of interest with the therapeutic agent, wherein the therapeutic agent is a sealant.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the report comprises airway navigation information for accessing the region of interest, wherein the navigation information comprises turn-by-turn steps for accessing the region of interest.
26. The method of claim 22, further comprising identifying which sub-segments are in contact with one of the locations where a fissure is incomplete; wherein the report indicates the identified sub-segments in contact with a location where a fissure is incomplete.
27. The method of claim 26, wherein the report comprises airway navigation information for accessing the location where the fissure is incomplete.
</claims>
</document>
