<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04M1/725,H04W12/00,H04W12/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KONICA MINOLTA LABORATORY U.S.A.
</assignee>

<inventors>
MULDERS, MARC
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65496033
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for authenticating a user using a mobile device having plural sensors
</title>

<abstract>
A method, system, and computer readable program code are disclosed for authenticating a user having a mobile device with plural sensors. The method includes recognizing a situation of the mobile device or the user; determining if the situation of the mobile device or the user is a predetermined situation; when the situation is the predetermined situation: determining a first action as an authentication action; determining a single sensor or a first combination of sensors among the plural sensors; and executing a first authentication for the user by using the single sensor or the first combination of sensors; and when the situation is not the predetermined situation: determining a second action as the authentication action; determining a second combination of sensors among the plural sensors; and executing a second authentication for the user by using the second combination of sensors.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for authenticating a user having a mobile device with plural sensors, the method comprising: enrolling the user of the mobile device into an authentication program, the enrollment of the user of the mobile device into the authentication program including requesting the user to perform a series of actions with the mobile device, each of the series of actions incorporating one or more of the plural sensors of the mobile device and the series of actions including at least a first action and a second action; recognizing a situation of the mobile device or the user; determining if the situation of the mobile device or the user is a predetermined situation; when the situation is the predetermined situation: determining the first action as an authentication action; determining a single sensor or a first combination of sensors among the plural sensors; and executing a first authentication for the user by using the single sensor or the first combination of sensors; when the situation is not the predetermined situation: determining the second action as the authentication action; determining a second combination of sensors among the plural sensors; and executing a second authentication for the user by using the second combination of sensors; and incorporating a machine-learning program or algorithm into the authentication program to reduce or increase a level of authentication for the mobile device and the user based on previous authentication requests for a same or a similar service or request.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the situation is one of: a location; a moving state or a stopping state of the mobile device; an authentication failure history for the user of the mobile device; a lightness or a darkness reading obtained by the mobile device in connection with a location of the mobile device; and an objective of authentication; or a combination of at least two of the location, the moving or the stopping state of the mobile device, the authentication failure history for the user of the mobile device, the lightness or the darkness reading obtained by the mobile device in connection with a location of the mobile device, and the objective of authentication.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first action or the second action is one of: holding the mobile device; tapping a finger on the mobile device; walking, sitting and standing; flipping the mobile phone; occluding a light sensor of the mobile phone; touching a predetermined position on a touch panel of the mobile device; or a combination of at least two of the holding of the mobile device, the tapping of the finger on the mobile device, the walking, sitting and standing, the flipping of the mobile phone, and the occluding the light sensor of the mobile phone.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein a number of sensors or actions for the second authentication is more than the number of sensors or actions for the first authentication.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the plural sensors include a GPS receiver, a gyroscope, a velocimeter, a rotation vector sensor, an accelerometer, a light sensor, a proximity sensor, an orientation sensor, a gravity sensor, a touch panel, a microphone, a magnetic sensor, and a camera.
6. The method according to claim 1, comprising: increasing a number of sensors or actions after at least one authentication failure.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the first authentication and the second authentication provide the user with access to at least one service, and wherein the at least one service is access to an office or home, access to a device, access to an application hosted on the mobile device, access to an Internet or Intranet, and/or access to a bank account, financial records, or medical records.
8. The method according to claim 1, further comprising: hosting the authentication program on the mobile device, the authentication program configured to execute a process for authenticating the user to access one or more services.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein when the situation of the mobile device or the user is not the predetermined situation, the method further comprising: determining a wearable device to be used for authentication; determining a third action as an authentication action corresponding to the wearable device; determining a single or third combination of sensors in the wearable device; and executing the second authentication for the user by using the second combination of sensors among the plural sensors of the mobile device and the single or third combination of sensors in the wearable device.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the wearable device is configured to detect one or more of the following: heart rate of the user; electrical activity of a heart of the user; or gait of the user.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the mobile device is a smart phone, and wherein the first authentication and the second authentication provide the user with physical access to an office, a building, or a home.
12. A non-transitory computer readable program code configured to execute a process as recited in claim 1.
13. A method for authenticating a user having a mobile device with plural sensors, the method comprising: enrolling the user of the mobile device into an authentication program, the enrollment of the user of the mobile device into the authentication program including requesting the user to perform a series of actions with the mobile device, each of the series of actions incorporating one or more of the plural sensors of the mobile device; determining a first action as an authentication action; recognizing a situation of the mobile device or the user; determining if the situation of the mobile device or the user is a predetermined situation; when the situation is the predetermined situation: determining a single sensor or first combination of sensors among the plural sensors to execute the first action; and executing a first authentication for a user using the single sensor or the first combination of sensors; when the situation is not the predetermined situation: determining a second combination of sensors among the plural sensors to execute the first action; and executing a second authentication for the user using the second combination of sensors; and incorporating a machine-learning program or algorithm into the authentication program to reduce or increase a level of authentication for the mobile device and the user based on previous authentication requests for a same or a similar service or request.
14. The method according to claim 13, comprising: increasing a number of sensors or actions after at least one authentication failure.
15. The method according to claim 13, wherein the first authentication and the second authentication provide the user with access to at least one service, and wherein the at least one service is access to an office or home, access to a device, access to an application hosted on the mobile device, access to an Internet or Intranet, and/or access to a bank account, financial records, or medical records.
16. The method according to claim 13, further comprising: hosting an authentication program on the mobile device, the authentication program configured to execute a process for authenticating the user to access one or more services.
17. The method according to claim 13, wherein when the situation of the mobile device or the user is not the predetermined situation, the method further comprising: determining a wearable device to be used for authentication; determining a third action as an authentication action corresponding to the wearable device; determining a single or third combination of sensors in the wearable device; and executing the second authentication for the user by using the second combination of sensors among the plural sensors of the mobile device and the single or third combination of sensors in the wearable device.
18. The method according to claim 17, wherein the wearable device is configured to detect one or more of the following: heart rate of the user; electrical activity of a heart of the user; or gait of the user.
19. The method according to claim 13, wherein the mobile device is a smart phone, and wherein the first authentication and the second authentication provide the user with physical access to an office, a building, or a home.
20. A non-transitory computer readable program code configured to execute a process as recited in claim 13.
</claims>
</document>
