<document>

<filing_date>
2015-05-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/029,H04W4/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SENSORIANT
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAQVI, SHAMIM, A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55067885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for mediating representations with respect to user preferences
</title>

<abstract>
System and methods are provided to create representations of geographic areas. Such representations enable users to search for items and services of interest and to quickly locate and utilize such items and services. Representations are created using user preferences thus reducing the amount of information presented to a user, i.e., user preferences control the contents of a representation. Control APIs contained within a representation may be used to control devices represented in a representation or to manufacture them using 3-D printing technologies. Methods to learn user preferences via his movements and other actions and impose a user's preferences upon an environment are shown. Some details of the invention are described by applying the invention to problems in retail marketing and figures depicting an implementation illustrate certain aspects of the invention.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of generating a representation of an environment in which a triggered device receives signals from a Broadcasting Device (BD), comprising: receiving over one or more communication networks one or more environmental data sets (EDSs), at least one of the EDSs including information relating to the environment, at least one of the EDSs being obtained from a triggered device located in the environment, which receives signals from a BD associated with the environment, the triggered device including a mobile communication device, the BD being configured so that the signals generated by the BD and received by the triggered device contain information that allows a radial distance from the BD to the triggered device to be determined therefrom; after receiving the one or more EDSs, generating a first representation of the environment that incorporates at least some of the information obtained by the triggered device from the BD that is included in the at least one EDS in accordance with at least one preference of a user associated with the mobile device; and causing the first representation to be rendered on at least one rendering device, wherein an Internet connected device (ICD) is associated with the BD, the ICD providing a service in the environment, the first representation rendered on the at least one rendering device including a representation of the ICD, and wherein the representation of the ICD rendered on the at least one rendering device includes a graphical user interface (GUI) for controlling the ICD.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising inferring the at least one preference of the user.
3. The method of claim 2 wherein inferring the at least one preference of the user includes inferring a preference of the user based on movement of the user in the environment.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein inferring the preference of the user based on movement of the user in the environment includes inferring the preference of the user based on one or more linger time periods that the user spends at one or more locations within the environment.
5. The method of claim 3 further comprising determining the movement of the user in the environment from location information received from the mobile device over the one or more communication networks.
6. The method of claim 3 wherein inferring the preference of the user is further based on a location of one or more objects in the environment, the location of the one or more objects being obtained from at least one of the EDSs.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the EDSs is received from a broadcasting device located in the environment.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the EDSs is obtained from a real-time data feed located in the environment and at least another of the EDSs is generated in advance of obtaining real-time data from the real-time data feed.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein the environment includes a retail store and the EDS generated in advance of obtaining the real-time data includes a planogram.
10. The method of claim 1 wherein the rendering device is the mobile communication device.
11. The method of claim 1 wherein at least one of the EDSs includes information describing the environment.
12. The method of claim 1 wherein causing the first representation to be rendered on at least one rendering device is performed by a third-party service provider.
13. The method of claim 1 wherein causing the first representation to be rendered on at least one rendering device includes providing to a third party data to be used by the third party to render the first representation.
14. The method of claim 4 wherein the environment includes a retail environment and at least one of the EDSs describes the environment.
15. The method of claim 14 wherein the EDS describing the environment includes a planogram.
16. The method of claim 14 further comprising inferring the preference of the user based at least in part on one or more linger time periods that the user spends within viewing vicinity of one or more specified retail items available in the retail environment.
17. The method of claim 1 wherein causing the representation to be rendered on at least one rendering device includes causing the representation to be rendered on at least one rendering device in real time while the user is in the environment.
18. The method of claim 2 further comprising determining the movement of the user in the environment from location information obtained from the mobile communication device.
19. The method of claim 3 further comprising determining a pattern of user movements within the environment and wherein inferring the at least one preference of the user includes comparing the pattern of user movements with one or more pre-stored patterns of user movements.
20. The method of claim 19 wherein the pre-stored patterns of user movements include pre-stored patterns of said user.
21. The method of claim 19 wherein the pre-stored patterns of user movements include pre-stored patterns of another user.
22. The method of claim 1 further comprising organizing into a second representation of the environment a second set of some of the information included in one or more of the EDSs, the information in the second set of information being different at least in part from the information included in the first representation.
23. The method of claim 22 further comprising causing the second representation to be rendered on a second rendering device.
24. The method of claim 16 wherein inferring the preference of the user is further based at least in part on historical data describing prior behavior of the user in the environment.
25. The method of claim 24 wherein inferring the preference of the user is further based at least in part on historical data relating to the one or more specified retail items.
26. The method of claim 3 further comprising determining the movement of the user in environment.
27. The method of claim 26 further comprising determining the movement of the user in the environment from signals received by the triggered device from the BD.
28. The method of claim 1 wherein the BD is a beacon device.
29. The method of claim 3 wherein the movement of the user is determined at least in part from the signals received from the BD by the triggered device.
30. The method of claim 16 wherein the linger time periods are determined at least in part from the signals received from the BD by the triggered device.
31. The method of claim 19 wherein the pattern of user movements is determined at least in part from the signals received from the BD by the triggered device.
32. The method of claim 1 wherein the information that allows a radial distance from the BD to the triggered device to be determined therefrom is a signal strength indicator.
33. The method of claim 1 further comprising, responsive to a command received by the GUI for controlling the ICD, generating an updated representation and an updated rendering that reflects a change to the ICD arising from receipt of the command.
34. The method of claim 1 further comprising modifying the first representation.
</claims>
</document>
