<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S15/74,G06Q40/08,H04W4/02,H04W4/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
COPE, CRAIG
GAUDIN, KRISTOPHER KEITH
DAVIS, JUSTIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66636255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detecting transportation company trips in a vehicle based upon on-board audio signals
</title>

<abstract>
The systems and methods may transmit a plurality of locationing pulse requests from a mobile device in a vehicle to an audio system of the vehicle during a period of operation of the vehicle. The audio system may have an array of speakers disposed inside the vehicle, and the locationing pulse requests may include a request to emit a locationing pulse from the array of speakers. The systems and methods may further receive the locationing pulse at a microphone of the mobile device; and determine, based upon receiving the locationing pulse, that the vehicle was in service of a TNC company, or otherwise operating as a TNC vehicle, during the period of operation based upon passengers entering and leaving the vehicle during the period of operation. Insurance covering the operation of the vehicle for TNC use may be verified, and/or alternatively, offered to facilitate insuring TNC vehicle operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of detecting use of a vehicle for transportation network company (TNC) trips, the method comprising: transmitting a plurality of locationing pulse requests from a mobile device in a vehicle to an audio system of the vehicle during vehicle operation, the audio system having an array of speakers disposed inside the vehicle, and the locationing pulse requests including a request to emit a locationing pulse from at least one of the array of speakers; receiving the locationing pulse at a microphone of the mobile device; determining, based upon the receiving operation, that the vehicle was in service of a TNC company during vehicle operation based at least in part on passengers entering and leaving the vehicle; and determining an identity of a driver of the vehicle, the driver being party to an insurance agreement insuring the vehicle, the insurance agreement having terms regarding TNC usage of the vehicle.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting a notice to the driver that TNC usage is not covered by the insurance agreement based upon the operation that determines the presence of a TNC passenger inside the vehicle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the identity of the driver is based upon an application executing on the mobile device, the application having the identity of the driver associated therewith.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining that the vehicle was in service of a TNC comprises detecting a physical object occupying a seat of the vehicle.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the receiving comprises detecting a plurality of TNC passengers, each of the plurality of TNC passengers having entered and left the vehicle over a period of operation of the vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method comprising determining a presence of a TNC passenger by geolocating the mobile device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, the method comprising determining a presence of a TNC passenger based upon a driving pattern of the vehicle.
8. A computer system for detecting use of a vehicle for a transportation network company (TNC) comprising: a memory configured to store non-transitory computer executable instructions; and a processor configured to interface with the memory, wherein the processor is configured to execute the non-transitory computer executable instructions to cause the processor to: transmit a plurality of requests to a vehicle having an audio system to emit a locationing pulse from the audio system; receive a plurality of sets of locationing data from one or more mobile devices inside the vehicle, the plurality of sets of locationing data indicating presence of passengers in the vehicle; determine whether use of the vehicle includes one or more TNC trips; and determine whether the vehicle is operated manually or autonomously while the vehicle is in use.
9. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of requests to the vehicle to emit a locationing pulse are received by one of the one or more mobile devices inside the vehicle.
10. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to: recognize route patterns of the vehicle that are indicative of TNC trips based upon the plurality of sets of locationing data, and wherein the locationing data further includes a geographical location of at least one of the one or more mobile devices inside the vehicle.
11. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the audio system includes an array of speakers.
12. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the audio system includes an ultrasonic beacon.
13. The computer system of claim 8, wherein the processor is further configured to receive mobile device information, the mobile device information include Bluetooth connection information of the one or more mobile devices inside the vehicle.
14. A computer-implemented method of detecting transportation network company (TNC) trips in a vehicle, the method comprising: determining that a first mobile device is inside a vehicle having an array of audio speakers; transmitting at least a first locationing request to the first mobile device, the first locationing request including a request to emit a locationing pulse from one or more of the audio speakers; receiving first locationing data from the first mobile device, the first locationing data including first occupancy data of seats in the vehicle; transmitting at least a second locationing request to the first mobile device, the second locationing request including a request to emit a locationing pulse from one or more of the audio speakers; receiving second locationing data from a second mobile device inside the vehicle, the second locationing data including second occupancy data of seats in the vehicle; and determining that the vehicle is operating according to a TNC trip based upon the first occupancy data and the second occupancy data.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the first occupancy data includes occupancy of one or more front seats of the vehicle, and the second occupancy data includes occupancy of one or more back seats of the vehicle.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the first mobile device is associated with an operator of the vehicle, and the second mobile device is associated with a TNC passenger of the vehicle.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, the method comprising receiving a notification of an identity of a vehicle operator from an application executing on the first mobile device.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, the method comprising receiving a notification that the first mobile device is communicatively coupled to the vehicle and capable of controlling the one or more audio speakers.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 14, wherein the operation that determines that the vehicle is operating according to a TNC trip further includes repeatedly receiving locationing data from the first mobile device, the repeatedly received locationing data including data indicative of a plurality of sets of passengers entering and leaving the vehicle while the vehicle is being operated.
</claims>
</document>
