<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N20/10,G06N20/20,G06Q30/06,G06Q50/10,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
SU, JENNIFER
RIVERA, MARK T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62630701
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for determining and displaying relevant explanations for recommended content
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for providing relevant explanations for recommended content are provided. In one embodiment, a computer-implemented method includes obtaining data indicative of one or more parameters associated with a user. The method includes determining recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user. The recommended content is associated with a recommended engagement for the user. The method includes generating an explanation for the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user. The explanation is indicative of why the recommended engagement is recommended for the user. The method includes providing data indicative of the recommended content and the explanation for the recommended content for display on a user interface via a display device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of providing relevant explanations for recommended content, comprising: inputting, by a one or more computing devices, information associated with a user into a machine-learned model that has been trained to receive the information as an input, and in response to receiving the information, output data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user, wherein the one or more parameters associated with the user describe at least one of a certification of the user or a user skill of the user; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, as an output of the machine-learned model, the data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user; determining, by the one or more computing devices, recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user, the recommended content being associated with a recommended engagement for the user; accessing, by the one or more computing devices, an explanation database comprising data indicative of a plurality of predefined templates to obtain a selected predefined template of the plurality of predefined templates; generating, by the one or more computing devices, an explanation for the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user and the selected predefined template, wherein the explanation is indicative of why the recommended engagement is recommended for the user, and wherein the explanation comprises the selected predefined template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user; and providing, by the one or more computing devices the recommended content and the explanation for the recommended content including the predefined template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the information associated with the user is obtained via information uploaded by a user.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the recommended engagement is associated with a job, and wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises: comparing, by the one or more computing devices, the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user to one or more job skills included in a job posting associated with the job.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the explanation for the recommended content is indicative of the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the one or more computing devices, the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises: determining, by the one or more computing devices, a transition for the user based at least in part on the one or more of the parameters associated with the user; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, the recommended engagement for the user based at least in part on the transition.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the explanation for the recommended content is indicative of the transition.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the one or more computing devices obtain the selected predefined template based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user.
8. A computing system for providing relevant explanations for recommended content, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memory devices, the one or more memory devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: inputting information associated with a user into a machine-learned model that has been trained to receive the information as an input, and in response to receiving the information, output data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user, wherein the one or more parameters associated with the user describe at least one of a certification of the user or a user skill of the user; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned model, the data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user; determining recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user, the recommended content being associated with a recommended engagement for the user; accessing an explanation database comprising data indicative of a plurality of predefined templates to obtain a selected predefined template of the plurality of predefined templates; generating an explanation for the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user and the selected predefined template, wherein the explanation is indicative of why the recommended engagement is recommended for the user, and wherein the explanation comprises the predefined text of the selected template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user; and providing the recommended content and the explanation for the recommended content including the predefined template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user.
9. The computing system of claim 8, further comprising: processing at least one of a resume associated with the user or an online profile associated with the user to obtain the information associated with the user.
10. The computing system of claim 9, wherein the recommended engagement is associated with a job posting comprising one or more job characteristics associated with a job, and wherein determining the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises: comparing the one or more parameters associated with the user to the one or more job characteristics indicated in the job posting; and determining the recommended engagement based at least part on the comparison of the one or more parameters associated with the user to the one or more job characteristics, wherein the recommended content is indicative of the job.
11. The computing system of claim 8, wherein determining recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises determining the recommended content further based on a work experience associated with the user and online behavior associated with the user.
12. The computing system of claim 8, wherein the explanation for the recommended content is indicative of the one or more parameters associated with the user.
13. The computing system of claim 8, wherein determining the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises: determining a job transition for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user; and determining the recommended engagement for the user based at least in part on the job transition.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein the explanation for the recommended content is indicative of the job transition.
15. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: inputting information associated with a user into a machine-learned model that has been trained to receive the information as an input, and in response to receiving the information, output data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user, wherein the one or more parameters associated with the user describe at least one of a certification of the user or a user skill of the user; receiving as an output of the machine-learned model, the data indicative of one or more parameters associated with the user; determining recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user, the recommended content being associated with a recommended engagement for the user; accessing an explanation database comprising data indicative of a plurality of predefined templates to obtain a selected predefined template of the plurality of predefined templates; generating an explanation for the recommended engagement for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user and the selected predefined template, wherein the explanation is indicative of why the recommended engagement is recommended for the user, and wherein the explanation comprises the selected predefined template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user; and providing the recommended content and the explanation for the recommended content including the predefined template and the at least one of the certification associated with the user or the user skill associated with the user.
16. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 15, wherein providing the recommended content and the explanation for the recommended content comprises: providing the recommended content for selection by the user via the user interface.
17. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein selection of the recommended content causes the display of a job posting.
18. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 16, wherein determining recommended content for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user comprises: determining a transition for the user based at least in part on the one or more parameters associated with the user, wherein the transition is indicative of a job transition from a current engagement associated with the user to a new engagement; and determining, by the one or more computing devices, the recommended content for the user based at least in part on the transition.
19. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 18, wherein the explanation for the recommended content is indicative of the job transition from the current engagement associated with the user to the new engagement.
</claims>
</document>
