<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-06-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06Q30/02,G06T7/11,G11B27/034,G11B27/28,G11B27/34,H04N21/254,H04N21/442,H04N5/76,H04N5/93,H04N7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ADOBE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MANGLA, RAJIV
KRISHNAMURTHY, BALAJI
SARKAR, MAUSOOM
YADAV, VIKAS
MALIK, GITESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57588112
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating a shoppable video
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for automatically generating a shoppable video. A video is parsed into one or more scenes. Products and their corresponding product information are automatically associated with the one or more scenes. The shoppable video is then generated using the associated products and corresponding product information such that the products are visible in the shoppable video based on a scene in which the products are found.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more non-transitory computer storage media storing computer-useable instructions that, when used by one or more computing devices, cause the one or more computing devices to generate a shoppable video, comprising: identifying, by a product determining module, one or more products in a first video scene of a video, the identifying comprising comparing a feature vector generated from a tile in a frame from the first video scene with feature vectors of product images; retrieving, by a video generation module, product information corresponding to the one or more products in the first video scene based on the identified one or more products; associating, by the video generation module, the one or more products and the corresponding product information with the first video scene; and generating the shoppable video using the associated one or more products and the corresponding product information.
2. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the one or more products in the first video scene further comprises comparing a plurality of features associated with the frame of the first video scene to a plurality of features for the product images.
3. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, wherein associating the one or more products and the corresponding product information with the first video scene further comprises: for the frame from the first video scene, producing one or more copy frames having different resolutions; and partitioning the frame and the one or more copy frames into a plurality of tiles.
4. The one or more computer storage media of claim 3, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of tiles overlap with another tile.
5. The one or more computer storage media of claim 3, further comprising: for each of the plurality of tiles in the frame and the one or more copy frames, (1) computing a feature vector, (2) comparing values of the feature vector corresponding to each of the plurality of tiles to values of feature vectors of the product images, and (3) based on the comparison, computing a product score for a plurality of products having corresponding product image.
6. The one or more computer storage media of claim 5, further comprising based at least on the computed product score, determining the one or more products to associate with the first video scene.
7. The one or more computer storage media of claim 5, further comprising: for a second frame from the first video scene, producing one or more copy frames having different resolutions than the second frame; partitioning the second frame and the one or more copy frames into a plurality of tiles; and for each of the plurality of tiles in the second frame and the one or more copy frames, (1) computing a feature vector, (2) comparing values of the feature vector corresponding to each of the plurality of tiles to values of the feature vectors of the product images, and (3) based on the comparison, computing the product score for a plurality of products having corresponding product images.
8. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, wherein the feature vector generated from the tile in the frame is an n-dimensional vector of numerical features that represent an object.
9. The one or more computer storage media of claim 8, wherein the feature vector numerically represents one or more of color components, length, area, shape description, gradient magnitude, or gradient direction of the object.
10. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, wherein the identifying comprises computing a product score for a plurality of products having corresponding product images.
11. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, further comprising: determining the one or more products to associate with the first video scene based, at least, on computed product scores for a plurality of products having corresponding product images.
12. The one or more computer storage media of claim 11, wherein the computed product scores are based on, at least, monitoring votes received for the plurality of products, such that a first product having a higher vote count than a second product indicates an increased likelihood that the first product is visible in the video.
13. The one or more computer storage media of claim 1, wherein the shoppable video presents the one or more products based on a scene in which each product is found.
14. A computerized method for generating a shoppable video, the computerized method comprising: computing, by an image feature vector module, a feature vector for each of a plurality of product images stored in a database; automatically identifying, by a product determining module, one or more products in a first video scene of a video, the identifying comprising: computing, by a tile feature vector module, a feature vector for a first tile of a first frame of the first video scene; comparing, by the product determining module, values of the feature vector of the first tile to values of the feature vectors for the plurality of product images; and based on the comparing, determining that the first tile includes an image of a first product that corresponds to a first set of images of the plurality of product images stored in the database indicating a likelihood that a first product is visible in the first video scene; and generating the shoppable video based on the automatically identified one or more products, the shoppable video comprising product information corresponding to the first product.
15. The computerized method of claim 14, further comprising: computing a feature vector for a second tile in a first frame of a video; comparing values of the feature vector of the second tile to values of the feature vectors for the plurality of product images; based on the comparing, determining that the second tile includes an image of a second product that corresponds to a second set of images of the plurality of product images stored in the database; and generating the shoppable video that comprises the product information corresponding to the first product and the second product.
16. The computerized method of claim 14, further comprising grouping the plurality of frames into one or more video scenes, wherein the shoppable video includes a presentation of the first product and one or more other products found in the video based on a video scene in which each product is found.
17. The computerized method of claim 14, wherein determining that the first tile includes an image of a first product that corresponds to a first set of images of the plurality of product images stored in the database further comprises monitoring votes received for the first product, and wherein the first product having a higher vote count than a second product indicates an increased likelihood that the first product is visible in the video.
18. A computerized system comprising: a datastore storing product images and associated feature vectors computed for the product images; one or more processors; and one or more computer storage media storing computer-useable instructions that, when used by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: divide, by a scene parsing module, a video into one or more video scenes, each comprising a plurality of frames, for each of the plurality of frames, generate one or more copy frames using a copy resolution component such that the one or more copy frames have a different resolution, partition, by a tile parsing module, each of the plurality of frames and each of the one or more copy frames into a plurality of tiles, for each of the plurality of tiles, compute, by a tile feature vector module, a feature vector, compare values of the feature vector via a feature vector comparing module, for each of the plurality of tiles to values of the feature vectors computed for the product images stored in the database, for a first video scene, use the comparison of the values of the feature vectors to automatically determine which products are visible in each of the plurality of frames, wherein the comparison includes determining a likelihood that a product is visible in a frame; and generate a shoppable video comprising at least the first video scene having product information corresponding to the one or more product images.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein shoppable video is generated using the products that are determined to be visible in each of the plurality of frames.
20. The system of claim 19, further comprising grouping the plurality of frames into one or more video scenes, wherein the shoppable video includes a presentation of the products that are determined to be visible in each of the plurality of frames based on a video scene in which each product is found.
</claims>
</document>
