<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/406,G05B19/408,G05B19/418,G06F16/00,G06F16/10,G06F16/907,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ROCKWELL AUTOMATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAO, KEVIN
GENOVESI, JOHN A.
KAUSHIK, PRADEEP
SZE, RICHARD W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64563442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Discovery of relationships in a scalable industrial analytics platform
</title>

<abstract>
A scalable industrial data ingestion and analysis architecture integrates and collects data from multiple diverse sources at one or more industrial facilities. Data sources can include plant-level industrial devices and higher-level business systems. The data can be integrated and collected from multiple sources at an on-premise edge or gateway device, which sends the data to event queues on the cloud platform. The data queues orchestrate and store the data on cloud storage, and an analytics layer performs business analytics or other types of analysis on the stored data to produce various outcomes. Similar analytic platforms can also be implemented at the device level, and analytic functions can be scaled between the device level and higher levels in accordance with the scope of a given analytic function.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a memory that stores executable components; and a processor, operatively coupled to the memory, that executes the executable components, the executable components comprising: a device interface component configured to receive, from industrial devices and systems at one or more industrial facilities, data files of different file types, wherein the data files comprise two or more of spreadsheet files, log files, database files, streaming data, power monitor data, image data from a camera or an optical scanner, energy matrix data, data files from an inventory system, maintenance schedule data, or purchase order data, and the data files comprise metadata identifying names of data fields within which the data items are located; a data queueing component configured to store the data files in one or more event queues of a cloud platform; a discovery component configured to classify data items contained in the data files to yield classified data items, and to identify correlations between the classified data items based in part on identified correlations between subsets of the metadata; a metadata generation component configured to generate relationship metadata identifying the correlations between the classified data items; and an analysis component configured to generate a model of normal operator behavior relative to an operator task based on a monitoring of a subset of the data items and relationship metadata relating to operator activities, and to identify incorrect operator behavior relative to the operator task based on a comparison of monitored operator behavior data with the model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the industrial devices and systems comprise at least one industrial controller having real-time control data stored thereon in association with data tags defined on the industrial controller, and one or more industrial automation devices operatively connected to the industrial controller, and the real-time control data comprises input data received by the industrial controller from a first subset of the industrial devices and output data generated by the industrial controller and sent to a second subset of the industrial devices based on the input data in accordance with a control program executed by the industrial controller.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein a first data item of the data items is a measured value generated by a sensor device, a second data item of the data items is a calculated value generated by a business system, and the discovery component is configured to identify that the first data item and the second data item correspond to a same performance metric of an industrial automation system based on at least one of a first similarity between a first value of the first data item and a second value of the second data item, or a second similarity between a first name of the first data item and a second name of the second data item.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the metadata generation component configured to generate a portion of the relationship metadata to tag the first data item and the second data item as corresponding to the same performance metric.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the metadata comprises at least one of a spreadsheet column heading, a comma-delimited field value, a database field names, or a user-defined identifier.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the discovery component is configured to identify the correlations based on identification of commonly named data fields associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, correlation of time stamps associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, or identification of identical values of a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the data queuing component is configured to identify the file types of the data files, and to normalize the data files based on the file types.
8. The system of claim 1, further comprising a presentation component configured to render an indication of a correlation, of the correlations, on a client device, wherein the metadata generation component is configured to generate a subset of the relationship metadata corresponding to the correlation in response to confirmation input received from the client device and representing acceptance of the correlation.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the data files are received from on-premise industrial devices, on-premise business systems, and cloud-based analytic systems.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the analysis component is further configured to perform an analysis on the data items and the relationship metadata to at least one of predict a maintenance issue associated with one or more of the industrial devices and systems or identify an inefficiency associated with operation of one or more of the industrial devices and systems.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the model is a first model, and the analysis component is further configured to: generate a second model of normal behavior of an industrial system based on application of a classification algorithm to the data items and the relationship metadata, and identify deviations from the second model based on monitoring of subsequently received data files.
12. The system of claim 10, further comprising an analytic scaling component configured to send a result of the analysis to an analytic system residing on at least one of a cloud platform, a server device, or one of the industrial devices.
13. A method, comprising: receiving, by a system comprising a processor, data files generated by industrial devices and industrial systems, wherein the data files are formatted according to different file types, and the receiving the data files comprises receiving at least two of spreadsheet files, log files, database files, streaming data, power monitor data, image data from a camera or an optical scanner, energy matrix data, data files from an inventory system, maintenance schedule data, or purchase order data; storing, by the system, the data files in one or more event queues of a cloud platform; classifying, by the system, data items contained in the data files to yield classified data items; identifying, by the system, correlations between the classified data items, wherein the identifying comprises: identifying names of data fields within which the data items are located within the data files, and identifying the correlations based on identified correlations between the names of the data fields; generating, by the system, relationship metadata identifying the correlations between the classified data items; generating, by the system, a model of normal operator behavior relative to an operator task based on a monitoring of a subset of the data items and relationship metadata relating to operator activities; and identifying, by the system, incorrect operator behavior relative to the operator task based on a comparison of monitored operator behavior data with the model.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the receiving comprising at least one of the data files from an industrial controller having real-time control data stored thereon in association with data tags defined on the industrial controller, and the real-time control data comprises input data received by the industrial controller from a first set of industrial devices and output data generated by the industrial controller and directed to a second set of industrial devices based on the input data in accordance with a control program executed by the industrial controller.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the identifying comprises identifying the correlations based on identification of commonly named data fields associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, correlation of time stamps associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, or identification of identical values of a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the generating the relationship metadata comprises: rendering an indication of a correlation, of the correlations, on a client device, and generating a subset of the relationship metadata corresponding to the correlation in response to receipt of confirmation input from the client device, wherein the confirmation input represents acceptance of the correlation.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising at least one of predicting a maintenance issue associated with one or more of the industrial devices or identifying an inefficiency associated with operation of one or more of the industrial devices based on a result of an analysis performed on the data items and the relationship metadata.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon executable components that, in response to execution, cause a system comprising a processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: receiving data files generated by industrial devices and industrial systems, wherein the data files accord to respective different file types, and the data files comprise at least two of spreadsheet files, log files, database files, streaming data, power monitor data, image data from a camera or and optical scanner, energy matrix data, data files from an inventory system, maintenance schedule data, or purchase order data; storing the data files in one or more event queues of a cloud platform; classifying data items contained in the data files to yield classified data items; identifying correlations between the classified data items; generating relationship metadata identifying the correlations between the classified data items; generating, based on a monitoring of a subset of the data items and relationship metadata, a model of normal operator behavior relative to an operator task; and identifying incorrect operator behavior relative to the operator task based on a comparison of monitored operator behavior data with the model.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, the identifying comprises identifying the correlations based on identification of commonly named data fields associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, correlation of time stamps associated with a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files, or identification of identical values of a subset of the data items discovered in two or more of the data files.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, the operations further comprising at least one of predicting a maintenance issue associated with one or more of the industrial devices or identifying an inefficiency associated with operation of one or more of the industrial devices based on a result of an analysis performed on the data items and the relationship metadata.
</claims>
</document>
