<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L9/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHARI, SURESH, N.
KUNDU, ASHISH
MUPPIDI, SRIDHAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69178885
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Identity confidence score based on blockchain based attributes
</title>

<abstract>
A processor-implemented method provides a calculated identity confidence score for an identity. The processor(s) in each of a plurality of decentralized identity providers calculate an identity confidence score of an entity. The processor(s) store the calculated identity confidence score in a blockchain. The processor(s) retrieve the calculated identity confidence score from the blockchain. The processor(s) provide the calculated identity confidence score to a requestor, which is a computer-based system that performs an action based on the provided calculated identity score.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: calculating, by one or more processors, an identity confidence score of an identity of an entity by each of a plurality of decentralized identity providers; storing, by one or more processors, the calculated identity confidence score of the entity in a blockchain, wherein the calculated identity confidence score of the entity is an aggregated calculated identity confidence score from the plurality of decentralized identity providers, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score of the entity is calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph, wherein the knowledge graph contains a confidence score for each actor that provides identity confidence scores to the blockchain, and wherein the confidence score of each actor describes how accurate the identity confidence scores provided by each actor to the blockchain are; retrieving, by one or more processors, the calculated identity confidence score of the entity from the blockchain; and providing, by one or more processors, the calculated identity confidence score of the entity to a requestor, wherein the requestor is a computer-based system that performs an action based on the provided calculated identity score.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the action is providing a service that is provided by the requestor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the action is providing data from a database that is provided by the requester.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score of the entity is calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph containing a confidence score of each actor that updates the calculated identity confidence score in the blockchain.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score of the entity is further calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph containing a confidence score of each actor that commits the calculated identity confidence score to the blockchain.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a machine learning system uses a recursive model for calculating the aggregated identity confidence scores.
7. A computer program product for calculating and utilizing a confidence score for decentralized identity scores from a blockchain, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage device having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions readable and executable by a computer to perform a method comprising: calculating an identity confidence score of an identity of an entity by each of a plurality of decentralized identity providers; storing the calculated identity confidence score of the identity of the entity in a blockchain wherein the calculated identity confidence score is an aggregated calculated identity confidence score from the plurality of decentralized identity providers, and wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph containing a confidence score of each actor to accurately commit the calculated identity confidence score to the blockchain as determined by other peers in the blockchain; retrieving the calculated identity confidence score from the blockchain; and providing the calculated identity confidence score to a requestor, wherein the requestor is a computer-based system that performs an action based on the provided calculated identity score.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the action is providing a service that is provided by the requestor.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the action is providing data from a database that is provided by the requester.
10. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is further calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph containing a confidence score of each actor that uses the calculated identity confidence score.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is further calculated at least in part using a knowledge graph containing a confidence score of each actor that updates the confidence score in the blockchain.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein a machine learning system uses a recursive model for calculating the aggregated identity confidence scores.
13. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
14. A computer system comprising one or more processors, one or more computer readable memories, one or more computer readable storage mediums, and program instructions stored on at least one of the one or more computer readable storage mediums for execution by at least one of the one or more processors via at least one of the one or more computer readable memories to perform a method comprising: calculating an identity confidence score of an identity by each of a plurality of decentralized identity providers; storing the calculated identity confidence score in a blockchain; retrieving the calculated identity confidence score from the blockchain; and providing the calculated identity confidence score to a requestor, wherein the requestor is a computer-based system that performs an action based on the provided calculated identity score wherein the calculated identity confidence score is an aggregated calculated identity confidence score from the plurality of decentralized identity providers, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is calculated using a knowledge graph containing a first confidence score of each actor that uses the calculated identity confidence score, wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is further calculated using the knowledge graph containing a second confidence score of each actor that updates the confidence score in the blockchain, and wherein the aggregated calculated identity confidence score is further calculated using the knowledge graph containing a third confidence score of each actor that commits the confidence score to the blockchain.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the program instructions are provided as a service in a cloud environment.
</claims>
</document>
