<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/20,G10L25/00,G10L25/03,G10L25/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Kuster, Martin
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746775
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User voice detection based on acoustic near field
</title>

<abstract>
Processing sound received by a device can include receiving a first signal from a first microphone of the device and a second signal from a second microphone of the device, where the first and second microphones capture sounds from a sound field. A ratio between the acoustic pressure and the particle velocity of the sound field can be calculated. In response to the ratio exceeding a threshold, speech signal processing is performed on one or more of the microphone signals. Other aspects are also described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing sound for speech recognition, comprising: receiving a first signal from a first microphone of a device and a second signal from a second microphone of the device, the first and second microphones capturing sounds from a sound field; processing the first signal and the second signal including converting the first signal and the second signal to frequency domain; calculating a first ratio between a first acoustic pressure and a first particle velocity of the sound field, based on the first signal and the second signal in the frequency domain; and processing the first signal or the second signal for speech in response to the first ratio being greater than a threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein a determination of the first particle velocity includes computing a finite difference approximation between the first signal and the second signal.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a determination of the first particle velocity includes computing a difference between an acoustic pressure of the first signal and an acoustic pressure of the second signal.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing of the first signal and the second signal includes calculating a power spectral density (PSD) or average of the first signal and second signal, and the first acoustic pressure and the first particle velocity is based on the PSD or average of the first signal and second signal.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a determination of the first acoustic pressure includes computing an acoustic pressure of the a) first signal, b) the second signal, or c) the first signal summed or averaged with the second signal.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculation of the first ratio is based on frequencies between 85 Hz and 255 Hz of the first signal and the second signal.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein a determination of the first particle velocity comprises computing i) a finite difference approximation between the first signal and the second signal, or ii) a difference between an acoustic pressure from the first signal and an acoustic pressure from the second signal.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the first signal or the second signal for speech comprises performing an automatic speech recognition process that yields recognized speech, the method further comprising performing an action based on the recognized speech.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein a determination that a sound originated in a near field is based on the first ratio exceeding the threshold, and the determination relies only on microphones.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a headset.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first microphone and second microphone are both located on a first side of the headset worn on a side of a wearer's head.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first microphone and second microphone are located along an axis that aligns with a mouth of the wearer.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein a distance between the first microphone and second microphone is 5 mm to 40 mm.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving a third signal from a third microphone of the device and a fourth signal from a fourth microphone of the device; processing the third signal and the fourth signal including converting the third signal and the fourth signal to the frequency domain; verifying whether to process the first, second, third or fourth signals for speech recognition, based on a) comparing the first ratio with a second ratio, wherein the second ratio is a ratio calculated between a second acoustic pressure and a second particle velocity of the sound field, the second acoustic pressure and the second particle velocity being based on the third signal and the fourth signal, b) comparing the first acoustic pressure with the second acoustic pressure, or c) comparing the first particle velocity with the second particle velocity.
15. An audio system for processing sound, comprising: a first microphone; a second microphone; and a processor, configured to: receive a first signal from a first microphone and a second signal from a second microphone, the first and second microphone capturing sounds from a sound field; process the first signal and the second signal including converting the first signal and the second signal to frequency domain; determine a first acoustic pressure of the sound field based on a) the first signal, b) the second signal, or c) the first signal and the second signal, in the frequency domain; determine a first particle velocity of the sound field based on a difference between the first signal and the second signal; calculate a first ratio between the first acoustic pressure and the first particle velocity; and in response to the first ratio being greater than a threshold, determine whether a sound from the sound field is emanating from a near field or a far field.
16. The audio system according to claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to perform a speech signal enhancement process on the first signal or the second signal based on a determination that the sound is emanating from the near field.
17. The audio system according to claim 15, wherein the first microphone and second microphone are located on a first side of a headset along an axis that aligns with a mouth of a user wearing the headset.
18. The audio system according to claim 17, wherein a distance between the first microphone and second microphone is 5 mm to 40 mm.
19. The audio system, according to claim 15 wherein to determine the first particle velocity the processor computes i) a finite difference approximation between the first signal and the second signal, or ii) a difference between an acoustic pressure from the first signal and an acoustic pressure from the second signal.
20. An article of manufacture for processing sound, comprising: a non-transitory machine-readable storage medium that stores instructions which, when executed by a processor, receive a first signal from a first microphone and a second signal from a second microphone, the first and second microphones capturing sounds from a sound field; process the first signal and the second signal including converting the first signal and the second signal to frequency domain; calculate a ratio between an acoustic pressure and a particle velocity of the sound field in the frequency domain, based on the first signal and the second signal; and perform speech signal processing on the first signal or the second signal based on the calculated ratio.
21. The article of manufacture of claim 20 wherein the stored instructions configure the processor to determine the particle velocity by computing i) a finite difference approximation between the first signal and the second signal, or ii) a difference between an acoustic pressure from the first signal and an acoustic pressure from the second signal.
</claims>
</document>
