<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06Q10/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FUJI XEROX COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AVRAHAMI, DANIEL
MARLOW, JENNIFER
LEE, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63246360
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for access control based on machine-learning
</title>

<abstract>
Example implementations are directed to a method of receiving information associated with an activity, analyze the information to identify a first pattern and a second pattern, generate a customized transition model for returning to the first pattern. In response to a detected trigger indicating a transition to the first pattern, the method assesses context factors to apply the customized transition to dynamically manage access to digital resources during the transition to the first pattern. In response to a determination that a transition to the first pattern satisfies a threshold, the method restores access to the digital resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for modifying productivity, the method comprising: receiving, from one or more sensors communicatively coupled to a processor, in real time, information associated with an activity, wherein the information includes heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze direction, and client-service monitored data; using the processor to analyze the information to identify a first pattern and a second pattern based on sensed changes in the heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze direction, and client-service monitored data; using the processor to generate a customized transition model for returning to the first pattern from the second pattern based on experience sampling including one or more of training data, rules, environmental controls, social graphs, and feedback, wherein the customized transition model includes a productivity plan for suggesting digital resources access based on activities of the first pattern during a previous session; in response to a detected trigger indicating a transition to the first pattern, using the processor to assess context factors and dynamically managing access to digital resources during the transition to the first pattern by applying the customized transition model, wherein access to the digital resources is restricted during the transition to the first pattern, wherein, when the processor determines that particular digital resources were accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model allows access to the particular digital resources during the transition to the first pattern, and when the processor determines that particular digital resources were not accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model restricts or delays access to the particular digital resources; and in response to determining that a level of focused engagement in activities associated with the first pattern satisfies a threshold, using the customized transition model to automatically restore access to the digital resources that were restricted during the transition to the first pattern.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the level of focused engagement in activities associated with the first pattern is based on a rate of interaction satisfying a threshold.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the rate of interaction includes a rate of user events in an application category during a period, and the threshold is satisfied in response to an average rate of the user events during the period as compared with past periods.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the productivity plan comprises determining whether to display an alert to the user or block access to an activity associated with the second pattern.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the customized transition model further comprises calculating a focus ratings associated with the user based on the user feedback associated with the digital resources.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected trigger indicating a transition to the first pattern is based on tracking one or more of a user's body movements, location, and eye gaze.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the dynamically managing access to digital resources includes managing digital resources differently on co-located multiple devices that are associated with the user.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the information includes one or more of sensed data, pinpoint data, and environment data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the information comprises one or more of location data, physiological data, computer usage, phone usage, and sensor data.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving feedback information associated with the first pattern, wherein the feedback information comprises one or more of a duration for returning to the first pattern, tracking co-presence of another user, user location data, user survey, and post-break activity; and updating the model based on the received feedback information.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the client-service monitored data includes one or more of accessed applications, keystrokes, and mouse activities.
12. A system for improving productivity comprising: a memory; one or more sensors communicatively coupled to a processor; the processor operatively coupled to the memory, the processor configured to: receive information in real time from the one or more sensors, the information being associated with an activity, wherein the information includes heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze direction, and client-service monitored data; analyze the information to identify a first pattern and a second pattern based on changes in the heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze, and client-service monitored data; generate a customized transition model for returning to the first pattern from the second pattern based on experience sampling including one or more of training data, rules, environmental controls, social graphs, and feedback, wherein the customized transition model includes a productivity plan for suggesting digital resources access based on activities of the first pattern during a previous session; in response to a detected trigger indicating a transition to the first pattern, assess context factors and dynamically manage access to digital resources during the transition to the first pattern by applying the customized transition model, wherein access to the digital resources is restricted during the transition to the first pattern, wherein, when the processor determines that particular digital resources were accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model allows access to the particular digital resources during the transition to the first pattern, and when the processor determines that particular digital resources were not accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model restricts or delays access to the particular digital resources; and in response to a determination that a level of focused engagement in activities associated with the first pattern satisfies a threshold, use the customized transition model to automatically restore the access to the digital resources that were restricted during the transition to the first pattern.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the level of focused engagement in activities associated with the first pattern is based on a rate of interaction satisfying a threshold, wherein the rate of interaction includes a rate of user events in an application category during a period, wherein the threshold is satisfied in response to the average rate of user events during the period compared to past periods.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor further configured to: receive feedback information associated with the first pattern, wherein feedback information comprises one or more of duration for returning to the first pattern, tracking co-presence of another user, user location data, user survey, and post-break activity; and update the model based on the feedback information.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein the client-service monitored data includes one or more of accessed applications, keystrokes, and mouse activities.
16. A non-transitory computer readable medium, comprising instructions that when executed by a processor, the instructions to: receive information, from one or more sensors communicatively coupled to the processor, in real-time, the information being associated with an activity, wherein the information includes heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze direction, and client-service monitored data; analyze the information to identify a first pattern and a second pattern based on sensed changes in the heart rate, pupil dilation, eye gaze direction, and client-service monitored data; generate a customized transition model for returning to the first pattern from the second pattern based on experience sampling including one or more of training data, rules, environmental controls, social graphs, and feedback, wherein the customized transition model includes a productivity plan for suggesting digital resources access based on activities of the first pattern during a previous session; in response to a detected trigger indicating a transition to the first pattern, using the processor to assess context factors and dynamically managing access to digital resources during the transition to the first pattern by applying the customized transition model, wherein access to the digital resources is restricted during the transition to the first pattern; wherein, when the processor determines that particular digital resources were accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model allows access to the particular digital resources during the transition to the first pattern, and when the processor determines that particular digital resources were not accessed during the first pattern prior to entering the second pattern, the customized transition model restricts or delays access to the particular digital resources; and in response to a determination that a level of focused engagement in activities associated with the first pattern satisfies a threshold, use the customized transition model to automatically restore the access to the digital resources that were restricted during the transition to the first pattern.
17. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein to generate the customized transition model further comprises calculating a focus ratings associated with the user based on the user feedback associated with the digital resources.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the customized transition model is generated using machine-learning associated with one or more of training data, user preferences, environmental controls, and social graphs.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the dynamically managing access to digital resources includes managing digital resources differently co-located on multiple devices that are associated with the user.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the instructions are further to: receive feedback information associated with the first pattern, wherein feedback information comprises one or more of duration for returning to the first pattern, tracking co-presence of another user, user location data, user survey, and post-break activity; and update the model based on the feedback information.
21. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 16, wherein the client-service monitored data includes one or more of accessed applications, keystrokes, and mouse activities.
</claims>
</document>
