<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P3/10,H01P3/127,H01P3/16,H01P5/08,H01P5/10,H04B3/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65518340
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for coupling an electromagnetic wave to a transmission medium
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a system that can be configured for generating an electromagnetic wave and coupling the electromagnetic wave to a transmission medium with a reduced loss of radiation of the electromagnetic wave into free space. The system can also be configured to receive an electromagnetic waves form the transmission medium with a reduced loss of radiation of the electromagnetic wave into free space. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a transmitter that facilitates generation of an electromagnetic wave; a dielectric material comprising a plurality of tapered endpoints; and a coupler coupled to the transmitter, wherein the dielectric material is disposed on a first portion of a surface of a transmission medium, wherein the coupler is coupled to a portion of the dielectric material, wherein the coupler facilitates guiding the electromagnetic wave to the plurality of tapered endpoints of the dielectric material, and wherein the plurality of tapered endpoints facilitates reducing a radiation of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates to a second portion of the surface of the transmission medium.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmission medium comprises an uninsulated conductor, an insulated conductor, or a dielectric core.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the surface and the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium do not overlap.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein at least two of the plurality of tapered endpoints vary in at least one physical dimension.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmitter facilitates generation of the electromagnetic wave according to a communication signal, and wherein the communication signal operates in a first spectral segment, and wherein the electromagnetic wave operates in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the communication signal conforms to a signaling protocol, and wherein the electromagnetic wave conveys the communication signal in the second spectral segment without modifying the signaling protocol.
7. The device of claim 1, further comprising a receiver coupled to the coupler, wherein the receiver facilitates receiving another electromagnetic wave that propagates from the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium to the coupler via the plurality of tapered endpoints.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the receiver further facilitates obtaining a communication signal conveyed by the another electromagnetic wave, wherein the communication signal operates in a first spectral segment, wherein the another electromagnetic wave operates in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment, and wherein the another electromagnetic wave is generated by another device without modifying a signaling protocol of the communication signal.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the coupler comprises a conductive coupler.
10. A method, comprising: generating, by a system including a transmitter, an electromagnetic wave; and coupling, by a coupler, the electromagnetic wave to a dielectric material disposed on a first portion of a surface of a transmission medium, wherein the dielectric material includes a plurality of tapered endpoints, wherein the coupler surrounds a portion of the dielectric material that does not include the plurality of tapered endpoints, and wherein the plurality of tapered endpoints facilitates reducing a radiation of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates to a second portion of the surface of the transmission medium.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the transmission medium comprises an uninsulated conductor, an insulated conductor, or a dielectric core.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein at least two of the plurality of tapered endpoints vary in at least one physical dimension.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the system facilitates generation of the electromagnetic wave according to a communication signal, and wherein the communication signal operates in a first spectral segment, and wherein the electromagnetic wave operates in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the communication signal conforms to a signaling protocol, and wherein the electromagnetic wave conveys the communication signal in the second spectral segment without modifying the signaling protocol.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the system includes a receiver coupled to the coupler, and wherein the method further comprises receiving, by the system, another electromagnetic wave that propagates from the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium to the coupler via the plurality of tapered endpoints.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising obtaining, by the system, a communication signal conveyed by the another electromagnetic wave, wherein the communication signal operates in a first spectral segment, wherein the another electromagnetic wave operates in a second spectral segment that differs from the first spectral segment, and wherein the another electromagnetic wave is generated by another system without modifying a signaling protocol of the communication signal.
17. A device, comprising: a receiver; a dielectric material comprising a plurality of tapered endpoints; and a coupler coupled to the receiver, wherein the dielectric material is disposed on a first portion of a surface of a transmission medium, wherein the coupler surrounds a portion of the dielectric material, wherein the receiver facilitates receiving from the coupler an electromagnetic wave propagating on a second portion of the surface of the transmission medium, and wherein the plurality of tapered endpoints facilitates reducing a radiation of the electromagnetic wave as the electromagnetic wave propagates from the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium to the dielectric material.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the transmission medium comprises an uninsulated conductor, an insulated conductor, or a dielectric core, and wherein the first portion of the surface and the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium do not overlap.
19. The device of claim 17, further comprising a transmitter coupled to the coupler, wherein the transmitter facilitates generation of another electromagnetic wave.
20. The device of claim 19, wherein the coupler facilitates guiding the another electromagnetic wave to the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium via the plurality of tapered endpoints, and wherein the plurality of tapered endpoints facilitates reducing a radiation of the another electromagnetic wave as the another electromagnetic wave propagates from the plurality of tapered endpoints to the second portion of the surface of the transmission medium.
</claims>
</document>
