<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06F16/25,G06F21/62,G06N20/00,G06N20/20,G06N3/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, DEEPAK
ZHANG LIANG
KENTHAPADI, KRISHNARAM
AMBLER, STUART MACDONALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69230159
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computing smoothed posterior distribution of confidential data
</title>

<abstract>
In an example, a set of cohort types and an anonymized set of confidential data data values for a plurality of cohorts having cohort types in the set of cohort types are obtained. Then it is determined, from a set of candidate data transformations, a best fitting data transformation for the anonmyized set of confidential data data values. The anonymized set of confidential data data values is transformed using the best fitting data transformation. Optimal smoothing parameters are computed for each cohort type. Then, for each cohort in the set of cohort types having a small sample size, a best parent for the cohort is determined and a posterior distribution for the cohort is determined based on the best parent for the cohort and the optimal smoothing parameters for a cohort type for the cohort.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium having instructions stored thereon, which, when executed by a processor, cause the system to: obtain a set of a plurality of cohort types and an anonymized set of confidential data values for a plurality of cohorts belonging to cohort types in the set of cohort types, the confidential data value received by the computer system via a first computerized user interface implemented as a screen of a graphical user interface with each piece of confidential data entered into a field of the screen of the graphical user interface; determine, from a set of candidate data transformations, a best fitting data transformation for the anonymized set of confidential data values, the best fitting data transformation being the transformation that produces a plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal; transform the anonymized set of confidential data values using the best fitting data transformation; compute optimal smoothing parameters separately for each of the plurality of cohort types, the optimal smoothing parameters being smoothing parameters that, when used to compute a posterior distribution, maximize log likelihood of observing a set of data; for each cohort in the set of cohort types having a small sample size, a small sample size being a sample size less than a predetermined threshold: determine a best parent for the cohort from a set of a plurality of parents for the cohort, each parent being a cohort having the cohort as a subset, the best parent being the parent that provides an argmax of a log-likelihood of a given function based on mean and variance of confidential data values in the parent; and determine a posterior distribution for the cohort based on the best parent for the cohort and the optimal smoothing parameters for a cohort type for the cohort.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes identity, log, and square root transformations.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes monotonic transformations.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining a best fitting data transformation includes: for each candidate data transformation in the set of candidate data transformations: applying the candidate data transformation to the anonymized set of confidential data values; generating a quantile-quantile plot of the transformed confidential data values; and selecting the candidate data transformation having the quantile-quantile plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal as the best fitting data transformation.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining a best parent includes computing a mean and variance that provides a maximum of log-likelihood as a prior for smoothing of percentiles in the cohort.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the computing the optimal smoothing parameters for each cohort type includes: randomly partitioning a set of all observed entries in each cohort into a training set and a hold-out set; generating a smoothed posterior log-normal distribution based on the training data; and computing the log likelihood of a mean and variance as per the smoothed posterior log-normal distribution.
8. A computerized method comprising: obtaining a set of a plurality of cohort types and an anonymized set of confidential data values for a plurality of cohorts belonging to cohort types in the set of cohort types, the confidential data value received by the computer system via a first computerized user interface implemented as a screen of a graphical user interface with each piece of confidential data entered into a field of the screen of the graphical user interface; determining, from a set of candidate data transformations, a best fitting data transformation for the anonymized set of confidential data values, the best fitting data transformation being the transformation that produces a plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal; transforming the anonymized set of confidential data values using the best fitting data transformation; computing optimal smoothing parameters separately for each of the plurality of cohort types, the optimal smoothing parameters being smoothing parameters that, when used to compute a posterior distribution, maximize log likelihood of observing a set of data; for each cohort in the set of cohort types having a small sample size, a small sample size being a sample size less than a predetermined threshold: determining a best parent for the cohort from a set of a plurality of parents for the cohort, each parent being a cohort having the cohort as a subset, the best parent being the parent that provides an argmax of a log-likelihood of a given function based on mean and variance of confidential data values in the parent; and determining a posterior distribution for the cohort based on the best parent for the cohort and the optimal smoothing parameters for a cohort type for the cohort.
9. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes identity, log, and square root transformations.
10. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes monotonic transformations.
11. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the determining a best fitting data transformation includes: for each candidate data transformation in the set of candidate data transformations: applying the candidate data transformation to the anonymized set of confidential data values; generating a quantile-quantile plot of the transformed confidential data values; and selecting the candidate data transformation having the quantile-quantile plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal as the best fitting data transformation.
12. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values.
13. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the determining a best parent includes computing a mean and variance that provides a maximum of log-likelihood as a prior for smoothing of percentiles in the cohort.
14. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the computing the optimal smoothing parameters for each cohort type includes: randomly partitioning a set of all observed entries in each cohort into a training set and a hold-out set; generating a smoothed posterior log-normal distribution based on the training data; and computing the log likelihood of a mean and variance as per the smoothed posterior log-normal distribution.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium comprising instructions, which when implemented by one or more machines, cause the one or more machines to perform operations comprising: obtaining a set of a plurality of cohort types and an anonymized set of confidential data values for a plurality of cohorts belonging to cohort types in the set of cohort types, the confidential data value received by the computer system via a first computerized user interface implemented as a screen of a graphical user interface with each piece of confidential data entered into a field of the screen of the graphical user interface; determining, from a set of candidate data transformations, a best fitting data transformation for the anonymized set of confidential data values, the best fitting data transformation being the transformation that produces a plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal; transforming the anonymized set of confidential data values using the best fitting data transformation; computing optimal smoothing parameters separately for each of the plurality of cohort types, the optimal smoothing parameters being smoothing parameters that, when used to compute a posterior distribution, maximize log likelihood of observing a set of data; for each cohort in the set of cohort types having a small sample size, a small sample size being a sample size less than a predetermined threshold: determining a best parent for the cohort from a set of a plurality of parents for the cohort, each parent being a cohort having the cohort as a subset, the best parent being the parent that provides an argmax of a log-likelihood of a given function based on mean and variance of confidential data values in the parent; and determining a posterior distribution for the cohort based on the best parent for the cohort and the optimal smoothing parameters for a cohort type for the cohort.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes identity, log, and square root transformations.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the set of candidate data transformations includes monotonic transformations.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the determining a best fitting data transformation includes: for each candidate data transformation in the set of candidate data transformations: applying the candidate data transformation to the anonymized set of confidential data values; generating a quantile-quantile plot of the transformed confidential data values; and selecting the candidate data transformation having the quantile-quantile plot that is closest to a straight line across a diagonal as the best fitting data transformation.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the confidential data values are compensation values.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the determining a best parent includes computing a mean and variance that provides a maximum of log-likelihood as a prior for smoothing of percentiles in the cohort.
</claims>
</document>
