<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VMWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
COOLEY, JAMES, W.
DAR, SUFIAN A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71732918
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing client computing systems using distilled data streams
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to techniques for managing client computing systems, such as a client distributed-computing system. In one embodiment, a desired state of the client distributed-computing system and a current state of the client distributed-computing system are received. Measurement data generated by a plurality of components of the client distributed-computing system is received. The measurement data is processed using one or more analytical or statistical techniques to generate distilled data. Based on one or more policies and the desired state, the distilled data and the current state are analyzed to determine one or more actions predicted to converge the current state of the client distributed-computing system towards the desired state. One or more control commands corresponding to the one or more actions are provided to the client distributed-computing system. The one or more control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform the one or more actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing, by a cloud-services distributed-computing system, a client distributed-computing system, the method comprising: at the cloud-services distributed-computing system: receiving a desired state of the client distributed-computing system, the desired state defined according to user input; receiving a current state of the client distributed-computing system, the current state generated by the client distributed-computing system; receiving measurement data generated by a plurality of components of the client distributed-computing system; processing the measurement data using one or more analytical or statistical techniques to generate distilled data; based on one or more policies and the desired state, analyzing the distilled data and the current state to determine one or more actions predicted to converge the current state of the client distributed-computing system towards the desired state; and providing one or more control commands to the client distributed-computing system, wherein the one or more control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform the one or more actions; receiving a subsequent state of the client distributed-computing system, the subsequent state generated by the client distributed-computing system after performing the one or more actions; and updating the one or more policies based on a difference between the subsequent state and the current state relative to the desired state.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the measurement data using the one or more analytical or statistical techniques comprises filtering the measurement data to identify a subset of the measurement data, wherein the distilled data includes the identified subset of the measurement data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the measurement data using the one or more analytical or statistical techniques comprises generating statistical data from the measurement data, wherein the distilled data includes the generated statistical data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the measurement data using the one or more analytical or statistical techniques comprises applying one or more functions to at least a portion of the measurement data to generate at least a portion of the distilled data.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the one or more functions include a derivative function.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more analytical or statistical techniques include machine learning techniques.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more analytical or statistical techniques are based on past observations of the client distributed-computing system made prior to receiving the current state of the client distributed-computing system and prior to receiving the measurement data, and wherein the past observations correspond to respective past actions performed by the client distributed-computing system in response to previous commands provided by the cloud-services distributed-computing system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more actions further comprises: determining, based on the current state and the one or more policies, a plurality of scores for a plurality of predefined actions, wherein the one or more actions are selected from the plurality of predefined actions based on the plurality of scores.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more actions include increasing or decreasing a resolution of monitoring for one or more parameters of the client distributed-computing system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement data includes performance metrics for the plurality of components of the client distributed-computing system.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement data includes sensor data.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the measurement data is received from the client distributed-computing system via a plurality of data streams, and wherein each data stream of the plurality of data streams is assigned to a respective component of the plurality of components.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: prior to receiving the current state and the measurement data, providing one or more previous control commands to the client distributed-computing system, wherein the one or more previous control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform the one or more previous actions and to change from a previous state to the current state, and wherein the measurement data is received within a predefined time period after providing the one or more previous control commands.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the one or more actions are determined further based on a difference between the current state and the previous state.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured to be executed by one or more processors of a cloud-services distributed-computing system, wherein the one or more programs include instructions for: providing a first set of one or more control commands to a client distributed-computing system, wherein the first set of one or more control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform a first set of one or more actions and to change from a first state to a second state; processing a received desired state of a client distributed-computing system, the desired state defined according to user input; receiving measurement data generated by a plurality of components of the client distributed-computing system within a predefined time period after providing the first set of one or more control commands; processing the measurement data using one or more analytical or statistical techniques to generate distilled data; based on one or more predefined policies, a difference between the first state and the second state, and the desired state, analyzing the distilled data and the second state to determine a second set of one or more actions predicted to converge the second state of the client distributed-computing system towards the desired state; and providing a second set of one or more control commands to the client distributed-computing system, wherein the second set of one or more control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform the second set of one or more actions.
16. A cloud-services distributed-computing system, comprising: one or more processors; and memory storing one or more programs configured to be executed by the one or more processors, the one or more programs including instructions for: processing a received desired state of a client distributed-computing system, the desired state defined according to user input; processing a received current state of the client distributed-computing system, the current state generated by the client distributed-computing system; processing received measurement data generated by a plurality of components of the client distributed-computing system; processing the received measurement data using one or more analytical or statistical techniques to generate distilled data; based on one or more predefined policies and the desired state, analyzing the distilled data and the current state to determine one or more actions predicted to converge the current state of the client distributed-computing system towards the desired state; providing one or more control commands to the client distributed-computing system, wherein the one or more control commands cause the client distributed-computing system to perform the one or more actions; receiving a subsequent state of the client distributed-computing system, the subsequent state generated by the client distributed-computing system after performing the one or more actions; and updating the one or more policies based on a difference between the subsequent state and the current state relative to the desired state.
</claims>
</document>
