<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-05-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNITED SERVICES AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (USAA)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BISHOP, DUSTIN
BLACK, MICHAEL
FREUND, DEBRA
HESS, ALISSA
KNIGHTON, JAMES EDWIN
NATHO, JARED ALAN
STACKHOUSE, BRIAN PHILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67845118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integrated risk analysis management
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented methods include: receiving, in a first client device, multiple risk indicators from multiple server devices over a network, in which the multiple risk indicators represent different external risks to a business and different internal risks to two or more divisions of the business; applying a forecasting model to at least one risk indicators to obtain one or more estimated future performance metrics; outputting to a graphical user interface, at least one of the estimated future performance metrics, the external risks or the internal risks; and outputting to the graphical user interface, a user-interactive feature for sending at least one of the estimated future performance metrics, the external risks, or the internal risks from the first client device, over the network, to a second client device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving data representing a plurality of risk indicators; applying a forecasting model to at least one risk indicator to obtain one or more estimated future performance metrics; determining whether any of the one or more estimated future performance metrics exceed a corresponding risk threshold; responsive to determining that at least one of the one or more estimated future performance metrics exceeds the corresponding risk threshold, generating an alert notification; generating data representing a recommended course of action based at least partially on the one or more estimated future performance metrics; providing, to a first client device, first user interface data that when rendered on a display of the first client device renders one or more graphical representations in a first user interface of the alert notification and one or more selectable icons, selection of which specifies a request to transmit the alert notification to one or more second client devices; receiving, through the first user interface, selection data specifying selection of a given one of the one or more selectable icons; in response to receiving the selection data, providing, to the first client device, second user interface data that when rendered on the display of the first client device renders a second user interface with an interactive field through which one or more values are input, with the one or more values indicating the one or more second client devices to which the alert notification is transmitted; receiving, through the second user interface, one or more values input into the interactive field; and transmitting the alert notification and the data representing the recommended course of action to the one or more second client devices specified by the one or more values input into the interactive field.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data representing the plurality of risk indicators are received from a plurality of server devices over a network.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of server devices include server devices for a plurality of divisions.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein the plurality of risk indicators represent different internal risks to two or more divisions of the plurality of divisions.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of risk indicators represent different external risks to a business.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the corresponding risk threshold is set by a user of the first client device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first client device, at least one user-defined risk indicator; and adjusting the forecasting model based on the user-defined risk indicator to obtain the one or more estimated future performance metrics.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising sending, with the alert notification, a request for instructions or a directive to take a specified course of action.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein sending the alert notification comprises limiting access to the alert notification to one or more individuals.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: sending the one or more estimated future performance metrics to the one or more second client devices.
11. A data processing apparatus comprising: a display; a processor including memory and programmed to perform operations comprising: receiving data representing a plurality of risk indicators; applying a forecasting model to at least one risk indicator to obtain one or more estimated future performance metrics; determining whether any of the one or more estimated future performance metrics exceed a corresponding risk threshold; responsive to determining that at least one of the one or more estimated future performance metrics exceeds the corresponding risk threshold, generating an alert notification; generating data representing a recommended course of action based at least partially on the one or more estimated future performance metrics; providing, to a first client device, first user interface data that when rendered on a display of the first client device renders one or more graphical representations in a first user interface of the alert notification and one or more selectable icons, selection of which specifies a request to transmit the alert notification to one or more second client devices; receiving, through the first user interface, selection data specifying selection of a given one of the one or more selectable icons; in response to receiving the selection data, providing, to the first client device, second user interface data that when rendered on the display of the first client device renders a second user interface with an interactive field through which one or more values are input, with the one or more values indicating the one or more second client devices to which the alert notification is transmitted; receiving, through the second user interface, one or more value input into the interactive field; and transmitting the alert notification and the data representing the recommended course of action to the one or more second client devices specified by the one or more values input into the interactive field.
12. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the data representing the plurality of risk indicators are received from a plurality of server devices over a network.
13. The data processing apparatus of claim 12, wherein the plurality of server devices include server devices for a plurality of divisions.
14. The data processing apparatus of claim 13, wherein the plurality of risk indicators represent different internal risks to two or more divisions of the plurality of divisions.
15. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the plurality of risk indicators represent different external risks to a business.
16. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the corresponding risk threshold is set by a user of the first client device.
17. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is programmed to perform operations further comprising: receiving, at an input to the data processing apparatus, at least one user-defined risk indicator; and adjusting the forecasting model based on the user-defined risk indicator to obtain the one or more estimated future performance metrics.
18. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is programmed to perform operations further comprising sending, with the alert notification, a request for instructions or a directive to take a specified course of action.
19. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein sending the alert notification comprises limiting access to the alert notification to one or more individuals.
20. The data processing apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is programmed to perform operations further comprising: sending the estimated future performance metrics to the one or more second client devices.
</claims>
</document>
