<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/02,G06F21/31,G06F21/35,G07C9/00,H04B17/27,H04B17/318,H04L29/06,H04L9/32,H04W12/06,H04W24/08,H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W4/029,H04W4/33,H04W4/40,H04W4/80,H04W76/15,H04W84/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
STITT, RAYMOND, MICHAEL
FOMINAYA, IV, ANTONIO
SMITH, ERIC
HARTMAN, ROBERT
JAGER, KARL
STROUD, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60022668
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for establishing real-time location
</title>

<abstract>
A communication system with a master device configured to determine location information in real-time with respect to a portable device. The master device may direct one or more monitor devices to monitor communications that occur over a primary communication link. The monitor devices may sense characteristic information about the signal from the portable device, and communicate this characteristic information to the master device via an auxiliary communication link. The communication system may determine location of the portable device, authenticate the portable device, determine whether the portable device is authorized to allow or initiate an action, and command or enable an action with respect to equipment.
</abstract>

<claims>
The embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined as follows:
1. A system for establishing location information in real-time, the system comprising: a plurality of fixed position devices, each of said fixed position devices configured to communicate via an auxiliary communication link with at least one other of said plurality of fixed position devices, wherein fixed position information about each of said fixed position devices is stored in memory; a portable device configured to communicate wirelessly via a primary communication link with a first one of said fixed position devices, wherein a second one of said fixed position devices is configured to monitor communication over said primary communication link between said first one of said fixed position devices and said portable device, wherein said second one of said fixed position devices determines one or more signal characteristics pertaining to said monitored communication and communicates signal information relating to said one or more signal characteristics, via said auxiliary communication link, to said at least one other of said fixed position devices; and wherein location information about said portable device is determined based on said signal information relating to said one or more signal characteristics communicated over said auxiliary communication link, wherein said signal information includes one or more signal characteristic values for said one or more signal characteristics, wherein an offset value for the portable device is obtained based on a device characteristic of the portable device, wherein the device characteristic of the portable device is substantially the same irrespective of changes in the environment of the portable device, and wherein at least one of said one or more signal characteristic values is changed according to the obtained offset value.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein at least one of said fixed position devices is configured to authenticate or authorize an identity of said portable device, and wherein said determined location information is deemed invalid, or said communications between said portable device and said fixed position device are refused or ignored, if said identity of said portable device is not authenticated or authorized.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein said location information is communicated to an equipment control, wherein the equipment control is adapted to at least one of a) monitor said location information about said portable device and b) command or enable an equipment operation based on said location information.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein: said first one of said fixed position devices is a master device; said master device stores in memory one or more signal characteristics to be used as a basis for determining location of said portable device, wherein said one or more signal characteristics are determined based on communication over said primary communication link between said master device and said portable device; said second one of said fixed position devices is a monitor device configured to sniff communication between said master device and said portable device to determine said one or more signal characteristics; and said master device is configured to determine said location information about said portable device relative to said master device and said monitor device based on a) said stored one or more signal characteristics of said portable device and b) said one or more signal characteristics determined by said monitor device from said sniffed communication.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein said master device communicates at least one of schedule information and connection parameters over said auxiliary communication link to said monitor device to enable sniffing of communication over said primary communication link.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein said auxiliary communication link is established using Bluetooth Low Energy hardware between said first one of said fixed position devices and said second one of said fixed position devices; and a communication protocol of said primary communication link is Bluetooth Low Energy.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein said portable device is configured to measure one or more device-side signal characteristics for communications transmitted or received by said portable device, said portable device communicating said one or more device-side signal characteristics to said first one of said plurality of fixed position devices, wherein at least one of said plurality of fixed position devices is configured to dynamically calibrate based on said one or more device-side signal characteristics.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein dynamic calibration includes at least one of a) adjusting the one or more signal characteristics pertaining to said monitored communication and b) adjusting an algorithm used to determine location.
9. The system of claim 7 wherein said one or more device-side signal characteristics pertain to at least one of a) communications over said primary communication link, b) a change in a state of said portable device, and c) sensor data from one or more device sensors.
10. The system of claim 1 wherein said offset value is determined based on a difference between a signal strength of communications measured by said portable device and a signal strength of communications measured by said first one of said fixed position devices.
11. The system of claim 1 wherein said offset value is subtracted from said at least one of said one or more signal characteristic values.
12. The system of claim 1 wherein said offset value is applied to compensate for differences in receiver radiation patterns.
13. The system of claim 1 wherein said device characteristic persistently affects communication between said portable device and at least one of said fixed position devices.
14. A device for establishing real-time location information about a portable device, said device comprising: a first communication interface operable to receive wireless communication transmissions from the portable device; a second communication interface configured for communications with at least one fixed position device separate from the device, said communications including one or more communicated signal characteristics of wireless communication transmissions transmitted from the portable device to the at least one fixed position device; and a controller operably coupled to said first communication interface and said second communication interface, wherein location information about the portable device is determined based on said one or more communicated signal characteristics communicated via said second communication interface, wherein said one or more communicated signal characteristics includes one or more signal characteristic values, wherein an offset value for the portable device is obtained based on a device characteristic of the portable device, wherein the device characteristic of the portable device is substantially the same irrespective of changes in the environment of the portable device, and wherein at least one of said one or more signal characteristic values is changed according to the obtained offset value.
15. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein: said controller is configured to determine one or more auxiliary signal characteristics with respect to communications provided via the second communication interface; the device is configured to measure the one or more auxiliary signal characteristics based on the communications provided via the second communication interface, wherein the device is configured to communicate the one or more auxiliary signal characteristics to another device via the second communication interface, and wherein the one or more communicated signal characteristics are based at least in part on the one or more auxiliary signal characteristics; and the one or more auxiliary signal characteristics are one or more received signal characteristics of communications provided via the second communication interface, and wherein the one or more received signal characteristics include an RSSI of communications received via the second communication interface.
16. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein said second communication interface includes auxiliary communication circuitry, and wherein said first communication interface includes primary communication circuitry, wherein said auxiliary communication circuitry and said primary communication circuitry are substantially the same such that said first and second communication interfaces use the same type of hardware protocol, and wherein said communications via said first communication interface are separate from said communications via said second communication interface such that portable device operation is substantially unaffected by said communications via said secondary communication interface.
17. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein an identity of the portable device is authenticated or authorized, and wherein said determined location information is deemed invalid, or said communications between said portable device and said device are refused or ignored, if said identity of the portable device is not authenticated or authorized; and comprising an equipment operation interface configured to communicate with an equipment control that controls operation of equipment, wherein the device is fixedly disposed in relation to the equipment, wherein an equipment operation is at least one of enabled or commanded based on said location information.
18. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein: the at least one fixed position device separate from the device includes a master device configured to communicate with the portable device via the first communication interface; the device is a monitor device that sniffs communication between the portable device and the master device, wherein communications are sniffed via said first communication interface; said one or more communicated signal characteristics are based on communications sniffed from said first communication interface; and said controller communicates, via said second communication interface, said one or more communicated signal characteristics based on communications sniffed from said first communication interface.
19. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein said first communication interface is configured to obtain one or more device signal characteristics relating to said wireless communication transmissions received by the device from the portable device, and wherein location information about the portable device is determined based on said one or more device signal characteristics obtained by said first communication interface and said one or more communicated signal characteristics communicated via said second communication interface.
20. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein said offset value is determined based on a difference between a signal strength of communications measured by the portable device and a signal strength of communications measured by the device.
21. The device as claimed in claim 14 wherein said device characteristic persistently affects communication between the portable device and said first communication interface.
22. A method of determining a location of a portable device in real-time, said method comprising: receiving, in a master device, wireless communications from a portable device via a wireless communication link; monitoring, in at least one fixed position device, the wireless communications from the portable device to the master device; receiving, via an auxiliary communication link separate from the wireless communication link, information pertaining to one or more signal characteristics based on the wireless communication monitored by the at least one fixed position device, wherein the information includes one or more signal characteristic values indicative of the one or more signal characteristics, and wherein an offset value for the portable device is obtained based on a device characteristic of the portable device, wherein the device characteristic of the portable device is substantially the same irrespective of changes in the environment of the portable device; changing at least one of the one or more signal characteristic values according to the offset value; obtaining position information relating to a position of the fixed position device; and determining a location of the portable device based on the one or more signal characteristic values and the position information.
23. The method of claim 22 wherein the device characteristic persistently affects communication between the portable device and the at least one fixed position device.
</claims>
</document>
