<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W72/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FEDERATED WIRELESS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MITOLA, III, JOSEPH
SCHAUBACH, KURT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56621797
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Radio resource management
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments include systems, methods, and a radio resource controller that may receive a request for radio resources from a user device. Disclosed embodiments may also determine a value ascribed to the requested radio resources. The ascribed value may reflect at least a qualitative or quantitative importance of the requested radio resources to a user of the user device. Additionally, disclosed embodiments may schedule radio resources based on the ascribed value.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for managing radio resources, comprising: receiving a request for radio resources from a user device; determining a value ascribed by a user of the user device to the requested radio resources, wherein the ascribed value is a monetary value; using machine learning to determine at least one user behavior pattern of the user of the user device; generating a heat map of trajectories of the user device that expresses at least one user tendency based on the machine learning of the at least one user behavior pattern; and scheduling radio resources based on the ascribed value and the heat map, wherein the user device is configured to communicate using the scheduled radio resources.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the request for radio resources from a user device further comprises: receiving a plurality of requests for radio resources from a plurality of user devices.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of user devices include at least two different types of devices.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the heat map of trajectories is based on a location of the user device and a mode of mobility of the user.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the location of the user device is at least one of a symbolic location or a set of locations.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the request for radio resources is a request for radio resources of a non-commercial operator.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the non-commercial operator provides radio resources for at least one of an enterprise network, a private LTE network, a private Wi-Fi network, a neutral-host wireless network, a private shared wireless network, or a non-cellular network.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the non-commercial operator shares spectrum with at least one other wireless network.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a user class to which the user belongs.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a classification of traffic associated with the request, the classification including at least one of voice, data, or short message services (SMS).
11. A radio resource controller, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions; and a processor configured by the instructions to: receive a request for radio resources from a user device; determine a value ascribed by a user of the user device to the requested radio resources, wherein the ascribed value is a monetary value; use machine learning to determine at least one user behavior pattern of the user of the user device; generate a heat map of trajectories of the user device that expresses at least one user tendency based on the machine learning of the at least one user behavior pattern; and schedule radio resources based on the ascribed value and the heat map, wherein the user device is configured to communicate using the scheduled radio resources.
12. The radio resource controller of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a plurality of requests for radio resources from a plurality of user devices.
13. The radio resource controller of claim 12, wherein the plurality of user devices include at least two different types of devices.
14. The radio resource controller of claim 12, wherein the heat map of trajectories is based on a location of the user device and a mode of mobility of the user.
15. The radio resource controller of claim 14, wherein the location of the user device is at least one of a symbolic location or a set of locations.
16. The radio resource controller of claim 11, wherein the request for radio resources is a request for radio resources of a non-commercial operator.
17. The radio resource controller of claim 16, wherein the non-commercial operator provides radio resources for at least one of an enterprise network, a private LTE network, a private Wi-Fi network, a neutral-host wireless network, a private shared wireless network, or a non-cellular network.
18. The radio resource controller of claim 16, wherein the non-commercial operator shares spectrum with at least one other wireless network.
19. The radio resource controller of claim 11, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a user class to which the user belongs.
20. The radio resource controller of claim 11, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a classification of traffic associated with the request, the classification including at least one of voice, data, or short message services (SMS).
21. A system in a network, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions; and a processor configured by the instructions to: receive a request for radio resources from a user device; determine a value ascribed by a user of the user device to the requested radio resources, wherein the ascribed value is a monetary value; use machine learning to determine at least one user behavior pattern of the user of the user device; generate a heat map of trajectories of the user device that expresses at least one user tendency based on the machine learning of the at least one user behavior pattern; and schedule radio resources based on the ascribed value and the heat map, wherein the user device is configured to communicate using the scheduled radio resources.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive a plurality of requests for radio resources from a plurality of user devices.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein the plurality of user devices include at least two different types of devices.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the heat map of trajectories is based on a location of the user device and a mode of mobility of the user.
25. The system of claim 24, wherein the location of the user device is at least one of a symbolic location or a set of locations.
26. The system of claim 21, wherein the request for radio resources is a request for radio resources of a non-commercial operator.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the non-commercial operator provides radio resources for at least one of: an enterprise network, a private LTE network, a private Wi-Fi network, a neutral-host wireless network, a private shared wireless network, or a non-cellular network.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the non-commercial operator shares spectrum with at least one other wireless network.
29. The system of claim 21, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a user class to which the user belongs.
30. The system of claim 21, wherein the value ascribed to the requested radio resources is based on a classification of traffic associated with the request, the classification including at least one of voice, data, or short message services (SMS).
31. The method of claim 2, further comprising: scheduling radio resources based on the ascribed value, the heat map, and the plurality of requests for radio resources from the respective plurality of user devices.
32. The radio resource controller of claim 12, wherein the processor is further configured to: schedule radio resources based on the ascribed value, the heat map, and the plurality of requests for radio resources from the respective plurality of user devices.
33. The system of claim 22, wherein the processor is further configured to: schedule radio resources based on the ascribed value, the heat map, and the plurality of requests for radio resources from the respective plurality of user devices.
34. The method of claim 6, wherein the scheduled radio resources are allocated by a spectrum access system.
35. The method of claim 6, wherein a spectrum access system allocates radio resources to the non-commercial operator.
36. The method of claim 1, wherein the request for radio resources is a request for radio resources of a non-mobile network operator.
37. The method of claim 36, wherein the non-mobile network operator provides radio resources for at least one of an enterprise network, a private LTE network, a private Wi-Fi network, a neutral-host wireless network, a private shared wireless network, or a non-cellular network.
38. The radio resource controller of claim 16, wherein the scheduled radio resources are allocated by a spectrum access system.
39. The radio resource controller of claim 16, wherein a spectrum access system allocates radio resources to the non-commercial operator.
40. The radio resource controller of claim 11, the request for radio resources is a request for radio resources of a non-mobile network operator.
41. The radio resource controller of claim 40, wherein the non-mobile network operator provides radio resources for at least one of an enterprise network, a private LTE network, a private Wi-Fi network, a neutral-host wireless network, a private shared wireless network, or a non-cellular network.
</claims>
</document>
