<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
L'OREAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
AARABI, PARHAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65229576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating output results based on computed relativity measures using relational memory
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method compute, store and use relativity measures between events in datasets where the measures are stored in a relational memory for querying. From user data and e-commerce shopping session data, relativity measures are computed for a plurality of subsets of data attributes of the user data and session data, each subset comprising two or more data attributes. The relativity measures individually or when combined represent conditional relativities between a set of events within the session data. Only the relativity measures are stored to the relational memory. The measures may be queried for results and applied to the e-commerce service (e.g. to determine which specific product data to present or an order of the presentation of the specific product data). The relativity measures may be computed only for pre-selected relations between particular data attributes which give desired trends and insights into user shopping using the e-commerce service.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising one or more processors coupled to a storage device storing instructions which when executed by the one or more processors configure the computing system to: receive user data for users performing shopping session instances with an e-commerce service from a respective user device for each of the users that includes at least a display and a camera, wherein the e-commerce service is a virtual try-on application for make-up; receive session data for each of the respective shopping session instances, the session data including events detected by the respective user device in respective particular shopping session instances in which one or more actions, from a group of actions detectable by the user device, taken by the respective users are associated with the respective particular shopping session instances in relation to one or more specific make-up products, wherein the group of actions detectable by the user devices include at least a browse/gaze of a product name detected by eye-tracking and a virtual try-on of the one or more specific make-up products during a respective shopping session; compute relativity measures for a plurality of subsets of data attributes of the user data and session data, each subset comprising two or more data attributes, wherein the relativity measures individually or when combined represent conditional relativities between a set of events within the session data; store, in a relational memory, the computed relativity measures, wherein the relational memory stores only the computed relativity measures without storing the received user data and the received session data; receive a query from an e-commerce service, the query defining a requested output; search the relational memory for relativity measures relevant to the requested output based on the received query; generate output results for the requested output of the query based on the relevant relativity measures; cache into a memory the query and the output results for future use; and, provide the output results to the e-commerce service, the output results comprising information associated with product data to be displayed on one or more of the user devices.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the system is configured to provide the e-commerce service.
3. The system of claim 1 wherein the group of actions detectable by the user device further includes at least one of add to cart and purchase or equivalent actions in relation to the one or more specific make-up products.
4. The system of claim 3 wherein session data further comprises one or more of product data, product category data, session length data, location data, and session date data.
5. The system of claim 1 wherein the events are ordered temporally.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the user data comprises one or more of user purchase history data, user age data, gender data and user physical attribute data.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the query comprises one or more constraints for searching the relational memory.
8. The system of claim 7 wherein a constraint comprises a data attribute of the user data or session data or a relationship between two or more such data attributes.
9. The system of claim 1 wherein the system stores relativity measures only for pre-selected relations between particular data attributes, the pre-selected relations selected to give desired trends and insights into user shopping using the e-commerce service.
10. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving by one or more processors user data for users performing shopping session instances associated with an e-commerce service, the user data received from a respective user device for each of the users that includes at least a display and a camera, wherein the e-commerce service is a virtual try-on application for make-up; receiving by one or more processors session data for each of the respective shopping session instances, the session data including events detected by the respective user device in respective particular shopping session instances in which one or more actions, from a group of actions detectable by the user device, taken by the respective users are associated with the respective particular shopping session instances in relation to one or more specific make-up products, wherein the group of actions detectable by the user device include at least a browse/gaze of a product name detected by eye-tracking and a virtual try-on of the one or more specific make-up products during a shopping session; computing by one or more processors relativity measures for a plurality of subsets of data attributes of the user data and session data, each subset comprising two or more data attributes, wherein the relativity measures individually or when combined represent conditional relativities between a set of events within the session data; storing, in a relational memory, the computed relativity measures, wherein the relational memory stores only the computed relativity measures without storing the received user data and the received session data; receiving by one or more processors a query from an e-commerce service, the query defining a request output; searching by one or more processors the relational memory for relativity measures relevant to the requested output based on the received query; generating by one or more processors output results for the requested output of the query based on the relevant relativity measures; caching by one or more processors into a memory the query and the output results for future use; and, providing by one or more processors the output results to the e-commerce service, the output results comprising information associated with product data to be displayed on one or more of the user devices based on the results.
11. The method of claim 10 further comprising providing by one or more processors the e-commerce service.
12. The method of claim 10 wherein the group of actions detectable by the user device further includes at least one of add to cart and purchase or equivalent actions in relation to the one or more specific make-up products.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein session data further comprises one or more of product data, product category data, session length data, location data, and session date data.
14. The method of claim 10 wherein the events are ordered temporally.
15. The method of claim 10 wherein the user data comprises one or more of user purchase history data, user age data, gender data and user physical attribute data.
16. The method of claim 10 wherein the query comprises one or more constraints for searching the relational memory.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein a constraint comprises a data attribute of the user data or session data or a relationship between two or more such data attributes.
18. The method of claim 10 wherein the one or more processors store relativity measures only for pre-selected relations between particular data attributes, the preselected relations selected to give desired trends and insights into user shopping using the e-commerce service.
</claims>
</document>
