<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-02-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOBII
</assignee>

<inventors>
HANQVIST, MATTIAS
SKOGO, MARTEN
KULDKEPP, MATTIAS
BROGREN, MARTIN
MUTHUSAMY, DINESHKUMAR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62147549
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and method for robust eye/gaze tracking
</title>

<abstract>
At least one image registering unit records at least one series of images representing a subject. A control unit controls an operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit in such a manner that a subsequent data processing unit receives a repeating sequence of image frames there from, wherein each period contains at least one image frame of a first resolution and at least one image frame of a second resolution being different from the first resolution. Based on the registered image frames, the data processing unit produces eye/gaze tracking data with respect to the subject.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An eye/gaze tracking apparatus, comprising: at least one image registering unit configured to record at least one series of images representing a subject; a control unit configured to control an operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit; and a data processing unit configured to receive the at least one series of images from the at least one image registering unit, and based thereon produce eye/gaze tracking data with respect to the subject, wherein the control unit is configured to control the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the at least one series of images received by the data processing unit represents a repeating sequence of image frames, and wherein each period contains at least one image frame of a first resolution and at least one image frame of a second resolution being different from the first resolution, a first light source, and the control unit is configured to control the first light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the first light source emits light while at least one of the at least one image frame of the second resolution is registered, a second light source, and the control unit is further configured to control the second light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the second light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered, and a third light source, and the control unit is further configured to control the third light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the third light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered.
2. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the at least one image registering unit comprises an image sensor having a set of sensor elements, and the at least one image registering unit is configured to deliver data registered by said sensor elements in the form of said image frames, where the at least one image frame of the first resolution contains data from a first set of said sensor elements; and the at least one image frame of the second resolution contains data from a second set of said sensor elements.
3. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said sensor elements are distributed over a sensor area having a full width and a full height, and the at least one image frame of the first resolution is an essentially full frame containing data from sensor elements located at positions which range over at least 80 percent of the full width and at least 80 percent of the full height of the sensor area.
4. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 2, wherein said sensor elements are distributed over a sensor area having a full width and a full height, and the at least one image frame of the second resolution is a sub-frame containing data from sensor elements located at positions which range from less than 50 percent of the full width and/or less than 50 percent of the full height of the sensor area.
5. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first resolution is lower than the second resolution, and each period of the repeating sequence of image frames contains at least one image frame of the first resolution and at least one image frame of the second resolution.
6. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the at least one image registering unit is configured to produce an image frame of the first resolution by having each data point in the image frame representing combined data from at least two sensor elements in the image sensor.
7. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 5, wherein the at least one image registering unit is configured to produce an image frame of the first resolution by including data from less than all sensor elements in the image sensor in the image frame.
8. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 5, comprising at least one first image registering unit and at least one second image registering unit, wherein at least one of the at least one first image registering unit is configured to produce image frames of the first resolution and at least one of the at least one second image registering unit is configured to produce image frames of the second resolution.
9. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first light source is configured to be activated when registering the first image of an image frame of a second resolution, the second light source is configured to be activated when registering the third image of an image frame of a second resolution, and the third light source is configured to be activated when registering the fourth image of an image frame of a second resolution.
10. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a single image registering unit configured to record a single series of images representing the subject, and the control unit is configured to control the operation sequence for the single image registering unit such that each period of the single series of images contains at least one image frame of the first resolution and at least one image frame of the second resolution.
11. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one image frame is analyzed to determine the presence of at least one of a facial gesture, hand gesture, facial feature, facial expression, eye closure, or head pose of a person imaged by the image frame.
12. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, wherein at least one image frame is analyzed to identify a user of the eye/gaze tracking apparatus.
13. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 12, wherein the at least one image frame being analyzed to identify a user of the eye/gaze tracking apparatus is of the first resolution.
14. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, comprising a memory unit storing a set of parameters, the memory unit being communicatively connected to the control unit, the control unit being configured to read out the set of parameters from the memory unit and, via control signals based on the set of parameters, control the operation sequences for the image registering units.
15. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 14, wherein the set of parameters are divided into datasets each of which specifies a particular predefined set of parameters which for each image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames defines a respective resolution to be applied by at least one of the at least one image registering unit when recording the repeating sequence of image frames.
16. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 15, wherein each of said datasets contains a particular predefined set of parameters which for each image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames defines at least one of: a respective position for a region-of-interest; a respective size of a region-of-interest; a respective binning and/or skipping operation; a respective gain level: and a respective exposure time to be applied by at least one of the at least one image registering unit when recording the repeating sequence of image frames.
17. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 15, wherein each of said datasets further contains a particular predefined set of parameters which for each image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames defines an illumination to be applied while recording at least one image frame of the at least one image frame in the repeating sequence of image frames, and the control unit is configured to, via at least one illumination control signal based on the set of parameters, control at least one light source to emit light in accordance with the particular predefined set of parameters.
18. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first light source is configured to be activated when registering the first image of an image frame of a second resolution, the second light source is configured to be activated when registering a further image of an image frame of a second resolution, the third light source is configured to be activated when registering a further image of an image frame of a second resolution, wherein the second and third light source are not activated for registering the same image, and wherein the first, second and third light sources are activated in the same image frame.
19. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the first light source is configured to be activated when registering the first image of an image frame of a second resolution, the second light source is configured to be activated when registering the second image of an image frame of a second resolution, and the third light source is configured to be activated when registering the third image of an image frame of a second resolution.
20. The eye/gaze tracking apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first light source is configured to be activated when registering a first image frame of a second resolution, the second light source is configured to be activated when registering a further image frame of a second resolution, the third light source is configured to be activated when registering a further image frame of a second resolution, and wherein the second and third light source are not activated for registering the same image frame.
21. A method of producing eye/gaze tracking data with respect to a subject, the method comprising: registering, via at least one respective image registering unit, at least one series of images representing the subject; controlling an operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit; processing the series of images from the at least one image registering unit; producing, based thereon, the eye/gaze tracking data; controlling the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the at least one series of images to be processed represents a repeating sequence of image frames, wherein each period contains at least one image frame of a first resolution and at least one image frame of a second resolution being different from the first resolution, controlling a first light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the first light source emits light while at least one of the at least one image frame of the second resolution is registered, controlling the second light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the second light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered, and controlling the third light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the third light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered.
22. A computer program product for producing eye/gaze tracking data with respect to a subject, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable medium, wherein the non-transitory computer-readable medium comprises one or more computer-executable program code portions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to: register, via at least one respective image registering unit, at least one series of images representing the subject; control an operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit; process the series of images from the at least one image registering unit; produce, based thereon, the eye/gaze tracking data; control the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the at least one series of images to be processed represents a repeating sequence of image frames, wherein each period contains at least one image frame of a first resolution and at least one image frame of a second resolution being different from the first resolution, control a first light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the first light source emits light while at least one of the at least one image frame of the second resolution is registered, control the second light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the second light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered, and control the third light source in coordination with the operation sequence for the at least one image registering unit such that the third light source emits light while at least one image frame of the repeating sequence of image frames is registered.
</claims>
</document>
