<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B07C1/04,B07C5/342,B07C5/36,G05B13/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMP ROBOTICS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOROWITZ, MATANYA B.
BAILEY, JAMES A.
MCCOY, JR., JOHN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63168511
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for sorting recyclable items and other materials
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for sorting recyclable items and other materials are provided. In one embodiment, a system for sorting objects comprises: at least one imaging sensor; a controller comprising a processor and memory storage, wherein the controller receives image data captured by the image sensor; and at least one pusher device coupled to the controller, wherein the at least one pusher device is configured to receive an actuation signal from the controller. The processor is configured to detect objects travelling on a conveyor device and recognize at least one target item traveling on a conveyor device by processing the image data and to determine an expected time when the at least one target item will be located within a diversion path of the pusher device. The controller selectively generates the actuation signal based on whether a sensed object detected in the image data comprise the at least one target item.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for sorting objects, the system comprising: at least one imaging sensor; a controller comprising a processor and a memory storage, wherein the controller receives image data captured by the at least one image sensor; and at least one pusher device coupled to the controller, the pusher device comprising a plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanisms arranged at different angles, wherein the at least one pusher device is configured to receive an actuation signal from the controller for selectively activating one or more of the pushing mechanisms; wherein the processor executes an item identification module configured to detect objects travelling on a conveyor device and recognize at least one target item traveling on a conveyor device by processing the image data and to determine an expected time when the at least one target item will be located within a diversion path of the pusher device; and wherein the controller selectively generates the actuation signal based on whether a sensed object detected in the image data comprise the at least one target item; wherein the controller is configured to activate, via the actuation signal, a subset of the plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanisms of the at least one pusher device to produce a specific direction of force for pushing the sensed object; wherein the controller selects the subset of the plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanism based on a determination that the sensed item is located in a first diversion path of the at least one pusher device and a further determination that the first diversion path does not also include a non-target item.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises at least one of a mechanical pushing mechanism, a pneumatic pushing mechanism, or an air jet pushing mechanism.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pusher device is configured to remove material within the diversion path from the conveyor device in response to receiving the actuation signal.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the identification module comprises a neural network and the memory stores neural network parameters, wherein the neural network identifies the at least one target item traveling on a conveyor device based on object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the neural network is configured to identify recyclable items as the at least one target item based on the object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein the neural network is configured to discriminate between recyclable items based on the object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the neural network comprises either a fully convolutional neural network, or a neural network comprising at least a convolutional portion.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one imaging sensor comprises a first imaging sensors coupled to the controller by a wireless connection.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises a pusher device coupled to the controller by a wireless connection.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein at least part of the memory storage comprises a memory storage device coupled to the processor by a network connection.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the identification module comprises a neural network configured to determine at least a first characteristic for a first object appearing within a first image of the image data captured by the at least one image sensor, wherein the first characteristic is at least one of location, orientation, type, weight or size.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the actuation signal varies an amount of pushing force applied by the subset as a function of the first characteristic as determined by the neural network.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises a plurality of pusher devices, wherein a first diversion path of a first pusher device intersects with a second diversion path of a second pusher device.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises a plurality of pusher devices, wherein each of the plurality of pusher devices is associated with a respective collection bin; wherein the controller determines which of the plurality of pusher devices to activate based on at least one characteristic of the at least one target item identified by the neural network.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of pusher devices is associated with a respective collection bin, wherein the controller determines which of the plurality of pusher devices to activate based on an association between the respective collection bin associated and objects comprising the at least one characteristic.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine when a blockage is obstructing travel of one or more objects travelling on the conveyor device.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor device comprises at least one singulation regulator.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein a first imaging sensor of the at least one imaging sensor is configured to view an opening of the at least one singulation regulator and determine a velocity of at least first object at the opening and determine when a blockage is occurring at the opening based on the velocity; and wherein the controller is configured to actuate a first pushing mechanism of the plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanisms to clear the blockage when the blockage is detected.
19. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises multiple conveyor lines.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the conveyor comprises a conveyor belt.
21. A method for sorting objects traveling on a conveyor, the method comprising: receiving image data captured by at least one image sensor for an image comprising at least one item traveling on a conveyor device; executing an item identification module on a processor, the item identification module configured to detect characteristics of the at least one item travelling on the conveyor device by processing the image data and determine whether the at least one item comprises a target item; determining an expected time when the at least one item will be located within a diversion path of at least one pusher device, the pusher device comprising a plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanisms arranged at different angles; and determining from the image data whether the first diversion path also includes a non-target item; selectively generating with a controller an actuation signal for selectively activating one or more of the pushing mechanisms based on whether the at least one item comprises the target item; wherein the controller is configured to activate, via the actuation signal, a subset of the plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanisms of the at least one pusher device to produce a specific direction of force for pushing the at least one item; wherein the controller selects the subset of the plurality of individually controllable pushing mechanism based on a determination that the at least one item is located in the first diversion path of the at least one pusher device and a further determination that the first diversion path does not include the non-target item.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises at least one of a mechanical pushing mechanism, a pneumatic pushing mechanism, or an air jet pushing mechanism.
23. The method of claim 21, wherein the at least one pusher device is configured to remove material within the diversion path from the conveyor device in response to receiving the actuation signal.
24. The method of claim 21, wherein the identification module comprises a neural network, wherein the neural network identifies the at least one target item traveling on a conveyor device based on object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters stored in a memory.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein the neural network is configured to identify recyclable items as the at least one target item based on the object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters.
26. The method of claim 24, wherein the neural network is configured to discriminate between recyclable items based on the object characteristics defined by the neural network parameters.
27. The method of claim 21, wherein the identification module comprises a neural network configured to determine at least a first characteristic for a first object appearing within a first image of the image data captured by the at least one image sensor, wherein the first characteristic is at least one of location, orientation, type, weight or size.
28. The method of claim 27, wherein the actuation signal varies an amount of pushing force applied by the subset as a function of the first characteristic as determined by the neural network.
29. The method of claim 27, wherein the at least one pusher device comprises a plurality of pusher devices; the method further comprising: determining which of the plurality of pusher devices to activate based on at least one characteristic of the at least one target item identified by the neural network.
</claims>
</document>
