<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/60,G06F21/82,G09G5/00,H04N19/40,H04N7/167
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEW, YEN HSIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65721532
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Gateway assisted out-of-band keyboard, video, or mouse (KVM) for remote management applications
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments herein relate to provision of keyboard, video, and mouse (KVM) connections. In various embodiments, a gateway apparatus may include a KVM remote connection manager, a local area network (LAN) port coupled with the KVM remote connection manage, and a wide area network (WAN) port coupled with the KVM remote connection manager, where the KVM remote connection manager includes a video encoder to encode an out-of-band redirected video stream received at the LAN port from a managed client device, destined for a remote management console, and send the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A gateway apparatus comprising: a keyboard, video, or mouse (KVM) remote connection manager; a local area network (LAN) port coupled with the KVM remote connection manager to couple the gateway apparatus to one or more managed client devices of a remote management console, over a LAN to which the gateway apparatus and the one or more managed client devices are coupled; and a wide area network (WAN) port coupled with the KVM remote connection manager to couple the gateway apparatus to the remote management console over a WAN, wherein the KVM remote connection manager includes a video encoder to encode an out-of-band redirected video stream received at the LAN port, via the LAN, from one of the one or more managed client devices, destined for the remote management console, and send the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port and the WAN; wherein the KVM remote connection manager is to change one or more of a resolution, a frame rate, a color format, or a color depth of the video stream before sending the encoded video stream to the remote management console, via the WAN port and the WAN, and wherein the KVM remote connection manager also includes a network port filter coupled with the LAN port to identify KVM remote network packets that target the LAN port of the gateway apparatus, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM.
2. The gateway apparatus of claim 1, wherein the KVM remote connection manager also includes a cryptologic engine to encrypt the encoded video stream.
3. The gateway apparatus of claim 2, wherein the cryptologic engine is also to decrypt one or more of an encrypted keyboard signal, an encrypted mouse signal, or encrypted data received at the WAN port, via the WAN, from the remote management console, for one or more of the managed client devices.
4. The gateway apparatus of claim 1, wherein the out-of-band redirected video stream is received at the LAN port in packets that target the LAN port of the gateway apparatus, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM.
5. The gateway apparatus of claim 1, wherein the LAN port and the WAN port of the gateway apparatus are a first and a second network port of the gateway apparatus, and the gateway apparatus further includes routing circuitry to route network traffic received at one or more of the LAN port or the WAN port that targets one or more additional network ports of the gateway apparatus, that are different than the first and second network ports.
6. The gateway apparatus of claim 1, wherein the out-of-band redirected video stream received at the LAN port includes raw video frames.
7. The gateway apparatus of claim 1, wherein the KVM remote connection manager also includes a data decompressor to decompress data received at the WAN port from the remote management console, via the WAN.
8. A method of gateway assisted provision of a keyboard, video, and mouse (KVM) connection comprising: receiving, at a local area network (LAN) port of a gateway device, an out-of-band redirected video stream sent over a LAN, from a managed client device, destined for a remote management console remotely disposed from the managed client device and the gateway device; encoding, by the gateway device, the out-of-band redirected video stream; and transmitting, by the gateway device, the encoded video stream to the remote management console via a wide area network (WAN) port, coupling the gateway device to a WAN, to which the remote management console is also coupled; wherein the out-of-band redirected video stream is received in packets that target the LAN port of the gateway device, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM, and the method further comprises: filtering, by the gateway device, packets received at the LAN port to identify packets that target the LAN port of the gateway device, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM, and one or more of changing, by the gateway device, one or more of a resolution, a frame rate, a color format, or a color depth of the video stream before transmitting the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port and the WAN.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising encrypting, by the gateway device, the encoded video stream before transmitting the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port and the WAN.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising decrypting, by the gateway device, one or more of an encrypted keyboard signal, an encrypted mouse signal, or encrypted data received at the WAN port of the gateway device from the remote management console, which sent the one or more encrypted keyboard signal, encrypted mouse signal, or encrypted data via the WAN.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising sending the decrypted keyboard signal, mouse signal, or data to the managed client device via the LAN port and the LAN.
12. One or more non-transitory computer-readable media comprising instructions that cause a gateway apparatus, in response to execution of the instructions by the gateway apparatus to: encode an out-of-band keyboard, video, and mouse (KVM) video stream received from a managed client device at a local area network (LAN) port of the gateway apparatus, destined for a remote management console, the LAN port coupling the gateway apparatus to a LAN to which the managed client device is coupled; and transmit the encoded video stream to the remote management console through a wide area network (WAN) port of the gateway apparatus, the WAN port coupling the gateway apparatus to a WAN to which the remote management console is coupled; wherein the instructions are also to cause the gateway apparatus to: change one or more of a resolution, a frame rate, a color format, or a color depth of the video stream before transmitting the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port and the WAN, and filter packets received at the LAN port to identify packets that target the LAN port of the gateway apparatus, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the out-of-band KVM video stream is received at the LAN port in packets that target the LAN port of the gateway apparatus, which is reserved for out-of-band KVM.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the instructions are also to cause the gateway apparatus to encrypt the encoded video stream before transmitting the encoded video stream to the remote management console via the WAN port and the WAN.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the instructions are also to cause the gateway apparatus to decrypt one or more of an encrypted keyboard signal, an encrypted mouse signal, or encrypted data received at the WAN port from the remote management console, which sent the one or more encrypted keyboard signal, encrypted mouse signal, or encrypted data through the WAN.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the instructions are also to cause the gateway apparatus to decompress one or more of a boot image or data received at the WAN port from the remote management console, which sent the one or more of boot image or data through the WAN.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer-readable media of claim 12, wherein the out-of-band KVM video stream received at the LAN port includes raw video frames.
</claims>
</document>
