<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/438,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G09B7/00,G09B7/02,G09B7/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PEARSON EDUCATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
NICKEL, ALEX
STEWART, TIMOTHY J.
SWEETEN, MATTHEW
NOBLE, Jacob Smith
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64097212
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Personalized automatic content aggregation generation
</title>

<abstract>
Generating personalized aggregated content is disclosed herein. The system can include a memory include an aggregated content database. The system can include a user device having a first network interface and a first I/O subsystem. The system can include one or more servers that can include a packet selection system and a presentation system. These one or more servers can: receive content files from the user device. A server can parse the content files and further generate features and feature vectors based on a related domain model. Content from the parsed content files may then be used to generate cards or content aggregations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A processor-based system for automatically generating personalized content aggregation, the processor-based system comprising: a communication network; a memory comprising a first content aggregation and at least a user profile database, the first content aggregation including one or more first text strings extracted from one or more first content files, the one or more first content files being relevant to a common subject, and the one or more first text strings selected for extraction from the one or more first content files via a topic model associated with the common subject; at least one server, comprising one or more processors, configured to: receive, from a user device, one or more second content files via a first electrical signal communicated via the communication network; process each second content file of the one or more second content files by automatically extracting one or more second text strings, from each second content file; generate a second content aggregation by placing, for each second content file, the one or more second text strings in the second content aggregation; associate the second content aggregation with a user of the user device; store the second content aggregation in the user profile database; transmit, to the user device, the second content aggregation via a second electrical signal communicated via the communication network; and transmit, to the user device, the first content aggregation via to the communication network to the user device in response to determining that the second content aggregation is not sufficient.
2. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, the server configured to determine whether the second content aggregation meets a threshold value and to transmit, to the user device, the first content aggregation via the communication network when the second content aggregation is less than the threshold value.
3. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 2, the threshold value configured to be received from the user device.
4. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, the first content aggregation including at least two first aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and the server further configured to: apply the topic model to the one or more second text strings to determine which one of the at least two first content aggregations to transmit to the user device.
5. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, the first content aggregation including at least two first content aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and the server further configured to: apply the topic model to the one or more second content files to determine whether to transmit one or both of the at least two first content aggregations to the user device.
6. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, the first content aggregation including at least two first content aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and the server further configured to: search the first content aggregations and transmit the first content aggregations that include two or more words present in the one or more second content files.
7. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, wherein the one or more first content files comprise written material.
8. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 1, wherein the user created the one or more second content files.
9. The processor-based system for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 8, wherein the one or more content files comprise audio files, text documents, scanned documents, word processor generated documents, PDF generated documents, and/or presentation processing created documents.
10. A method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content, the method comprising: storing in a memory a first content aggregation, the first content aggregation including one or more first text strings extracted from one or more first content files, the one or more first content files being relevant to a common subject, and the one or more first text strings selected for extraction from the one or more first content files via a topic model associated with the common subject receiving, at a server and from a user device, one or more second content files via a first electrical signal communicated via a communication network; processing each second content file of the one or more second content files by automatically extracting: one or more second text strings, from each second content file; generating a second content aggregation by placing, for each second content file, the one or more second text strings in the second content aggregation; associating the second content aggregation with a user of the user device; storing the second content aggregation in the user profile database; transmitting, to the user device, the second content aggregation via a second electrical signal communicated via the communication network; and transmitting, to the user device, the first content aggregation via the communication network in response to determining that the second content aggregation is not sufficient.
11. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, the method further comprising determining whether the second content aggregation meets a threshold value and transmitting, to the user device, the first content aggregation via the communication network when the second content aggregation is less than the threshold value.
12. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 11, wherein the threshold value configured to be received from the user device.
13. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, wherein the first content aggregation includes at least two first content aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and further comprising: applying the topic model to the one or more second text strings to determine which one of the at least two first content aggregations to transmit to the user device.
14. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, wherein the first content aggregation includes at least two first content aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and further comprising: applying the topic model to the one or more second content files to determine whether to transmit one or both of the at least two first content aggregations to the user device.
15. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, wherein the first content aggregation includes at least two first content aggregations, each of the first content aggregations having one or more first text strings extracted from the one or more first content files, and further comprising: searching the first content aggregations and transmitting the first content aggregations that include two or more words present in the one or more second content files.
16. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, wherein the one or more first content files comprise written material.
17. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 10, wherein the user created the one or more second content files.
18. The method for automatically generating personalized aggregated content of claim 17, wherein the one or more second content files comprise audio files, text documents, scanned documents, word processor generated documents, PDF generated documents, and/or presentation processing created documents.
</claims>
</document>
