<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,G06T7/00,G06T7/20,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VERILY LIFE SCIENCES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PIPONI, DANIELE
LEE, SEUNG AH
REPHAELI, EDEN
BELTHANGADY, CHINMAY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63490686
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Speckle contrast analysis using machine learning for visualizing flow
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments may include a method to estimate motion data based on test image data sets. The method may include receiving a training data set comprising a plurality of training data elements. Each element may include an image data set and a motion data set. The method may include training a machine learning model using the training data set, resulting in identifying one or more parameters of a function in the machine learning model based on correspondences between the image data sets and the motion data sets. The method may further include receiving a test image data set. The test image data set may include intensities of pixels in a deep-tissue image. The method may include using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set to generate output data for the test image data set. The output data may characterize motion represented in the test image data set.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of training and using machine learning models to estimate motion data based on test image data sets, the method comprising: receiving, by a computer system, a training data set comprising a plurality of training data elements, each training data element of the plurality of training data elements including: an image data set comprising, for each pixel of a first plurality of pixels, an image-characteristic value, the image-characteristic value being based at least on an intensity of the pixel, a motion data set that indicates a portion of the first plurality of pixels representing a movement, training a machine learning model, using the training data set, the training resulting in identifying one or more parameters of a function in the machine learning model based on correspondences between the image data sets and the motion data sets; receiving, by the computer system, a test image data set comprising, for each pixel of a second plurality of pixels, an intensity of the pixel in a captured deep-tissue image, the captured deep-tissue image having been collected while imaging objects at a depth below a surface of a biological tissue, wherein the second plurality of pixels is same or different from the first plurality of pixels, wherein the depth is at least 1 mm; and using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set to generate output data for the test image data set, the output data characterizing motion represented in the test image data set.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the output data generated using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set, one or more flow-rate values to associate with the test image data set; and outputting the one or more flow-rate values.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the image-characteristic value is further based on one or more other intensities, each intensity of the one or more other intensities being an intensity of another pixel in a spatial cluster with the pixel.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the one or more parameters comprise a statistic based on: the intensity of the pixel; and one or more pixels in the spatial cluster.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, for each training data element of the plurality of training data elements, one or more image statistics based on the image data set, wherein the machine learning model is trained using the one or more image statistics, and wherein the one or more parameters include a weight associated with an image statistic of the one or more image statistics.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion data set is indicative of an incomplete subset of the first plurality of pixels having image-characteristic values corresponding to movement of a fluid within the biological tissue.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the machine learning model includes a convolutional neural network, a set of convolutional filters depends on the one or more parameters, training the machine learning model includes identifying the one or more parameters for the set of convolutional filters, generating the output data for the test image data set comprises outputting an image comprising the second plurality of pixels.
8. A system for training and using machine learning models to estimate motion data based on test image data sets, the system comprising one or more processors and a computer-readable medium storing a plurality of instructions that when executed cause the one or more processors to: receive a training set comprising a plurality of training data elements, each training data element of the plurality of training data elements including: an image data set comprising, for each pixel of a first plurality of pixels, an image-characteristic value, the image-characteristic value being based at least on an intensity of the pixel, a motion data set that indicates a portion of the first plurality of pixels representing a movement, train a machine learning model, using the training data set, the training resulting in identifying one or more parameters of a function in the machine learning model based on correspondences between the image data sets and the motion data sets; receive a test image data set comprising, for each pixel of a second plurality of pixels, an intensity of the pixel in a captured deep-tissue image, the captured deep-tissue image having been collected while imaging objects at a depth below a surface of a biological tissue, wherein the second plurality of pixels is same or different from the first plurality of pixels, wherein the depth is at least 1 mm; and use the trained machine learning model and the test image data set to generate output data for the test image data set, the output data characterizing motion represented in the test image data set.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of instructions that when executed further cause the one or more processors to: determine, based on the output data generated using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set, one or more flow-rate values to associate with the test image data set; and output the one or more flow-rate values.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the image-characteristic value is further based on one or more other intensities, each intensity of the one or more other intensities being an intensity of another pixel in a spatial cluster with the pixel in the captured deep-tissue image.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the one or more parameters comprise a statistic based on: the intensity of the pixel; and one or more pixels in the spatial cluster.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of instructions that when executed further cause the one or more processors to: generate, for each training data element of the plurality of training data elements, one or more image statistics based on the image data set, wherein the machine learning model is trained using the one or more image statistics, and wherein the one or more parameters include a weight associated with an image statistic of the one or more image statistics.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the motion data set is indicative of an incomplete subset of the first plurality of pixels having image-characteristic values corresponding to movement of a fluid within the biological tissue.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein: the machine learning model includes a convolutional neural network, a set of convolutional filters depends on the one or more parameters, training the machine learning model includes identifying the one or more parameters for the set of convolutional filters, generating the output data for the test image data set comprises outputting an image comprising the second plurality of pixels.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing a plurality of instructions that when executed by one or more processors perform a method of training and using machine learning models to estimate data based on test image data sets, the method comprising: receiving a training data set comprising a plurality of training data elements, each training data element of the plurality of training data elements including: an image data set comprising, for each pixel of a first plurality of pixels, an image-characteristic value, the image-characteristic value being based at least on an intensity of the pixel, a motion data set that indicates a portion of the first plurality of pixels representing a movement, training a machine learning model, using the training data set, the training resulting in identifying one or more parameters of a function in the machine learning model based on correspondences between the image data sets and the motion data sets; receiving a test image data set comprising, for each pixel of a second plurality of pixels, an intensity of the pixel in a captured deep-tissue image, the captured deep-tissue image having been collected while imaging objects at a depth of at least 1 mm in biological tissue, wherein the second plurality of pixels is same or different from the first plurality of pixels; using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set to generate output data for the test image data set, the output data characterizing motion represented in the test image data set.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: determining, based on the output data generated using the trained machine learning model and the test image data set, one or more flow-rate values to associate with the test image data set; and outputting the one or more flow-rate values.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the image-characteristic value is further based on one or more other intensities, each intensity of the one or more other intensities being an intensity of another pixel in a spatial cluster with the pixel in the captured deep-tissue image.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: generating, for each training data element of the plurality of training data elements, one or more image statistics based on the image data set, wherein the machine learning model is trained using the one or more image statistics, and wherein the one or more parameters include a weight associated with an image statistic of the one or more image statistics.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the motion data set is indicative of an incomplete subset of the first plurality of pixels having image-characteristic values corresponding to movement of a fluid within the biological tissue.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the motion data set is based on an artificial structure or a live tissue with flow measured using blood injected with a fluorescent dye.
</claims>
</document>
