<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q30/02,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
Sweeney, Mackenzie
Mupkala, Ravi
Bachamada, Devaiah
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73263920
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for recommending personalized rewards based on customer profiles and customer preferences
</title>

<abstract>
A system for recommending personalized rewards based on customer profiles and customer preferences includes one or more processors configured to access customer parameters associated with the first customer and customer parameters associated with a plurality of second customers from a database. The values of customer parameters of the first customer are compared with the values of the customer parameters of the plurality of second customers to identify of the plurality of second customers having customer parameter values that correspond to the customer parameter values associated with the first customer. A list of reward purchase categories is determined based on analyzing customer profiles associated with the identified plurality of second customers. Personalized rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories are transmitted to the user device associated with the first customer, the personalized rewards to accrue based on consumer purchase transactions by the first customer.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for recommending personalized rewards based on customer profiles and customer preferences using machine learning models, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to: receive from a user device associated with a first customer, a request for initiating recommendation of personalized rewards; access values of one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer from a database; determine a range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer; access values of the one or more customers parameters associated with a plurality of second customers from the database; compare, using a first machine learning model, the range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters of the first customer with the values of the one or more customer parameters of the plurality of second customers to identify one or more of the plurality of second customers having customer parameter values that correspond to one or more of the customer parameter values associated with the first customer; analyze, using a second machine learning model, customer profiles associated with the identified one or more of the second customers to determine a list of redeemable reward categories, wherein the customer profiles comprise historical purchase transaction information associated with the identified one or more of the second customers and wherein the redeemable reward categories comprise rewards that are redeemable for consumer purchase transactions; transmit a first recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer, the first recommendation comprising the list of reward purchase categories determined based on the analyzing; receive a selection by the first customer of one or more reward categories from the recommended list of reward categories; dynamically select a second recommendation, the second recommendation comprising personalized rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories, the personalized rewards to accrue based on consumer purchase transactions by the first customer; and; transmit the second recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more customer parameters include a customer age, a customer income, a customer location, a customer spending trend, or a customer credit score.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the list of reward categories include gas rewards, travel rewards, grocery rewards, casino rewards, hotel stay rewards, restaurant deals, or movie ticket rewards.
4. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors being further configured to execute instructions to: evaluate the utilization of the recommended rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories; and update an algorithm based on the evaluation.
5. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors being further configured to execute instructions to: select the one or more reward categories based on the customer profiles associated with the identified one or more of the second customers; and recommend rewards associated with the dynamically selected one or more reward categories.
6. The system of claim 3, the one or more processors being further configured to execute instructions to: select the one or more reward categories based on a customer profile associated with the first customer; and recommend rewards associated with the dynamically selected one or more reward categories.
7. The system of claim 4, wherein the algorithm includes a machine learning algorithm.
8. The system of claim 1, the one or more processors being further configured to execute instructions to: determine the personalized rewards based on maximum savings that the first customer would receive on gas purchases, grocery shopping, or travel tickets.
9. A computer implemented method for recommending personalized rewards based on customer profiles and customer preferences using machine learning models, the method comprising: receiving, from a user device associated with a first customer, a request for initiating recommendation of personalized rewards; accessing values of one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer from a database; accessing values of the one or more customer parameters associated with a plurality of second customers from the database; determining a range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer; comparing, using a first machine learning model, the range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters of the first customer with the values of the one or more customer parameters of the plurality of second customers to identify one or more of the plurality of second customers having customer parameter values that correspond to one or more of the customer parameter values associated with the first customer; analyzing, using a second machine learning model, customer profiles associated with the identified one or more of the second customers to determine a list of redeemable reward categories, wherein the customer profiles comprise historical purchase transaction information associated with the identified one or more of the second customers and wherein the redeemable reward categories comprise rewards that are redeemable for consumer purchase transactions; transmitting a first recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer, the first recommendation comprising the list of reward purchase categories determined based on the analyzing; receiving a selection by the first customer of one or more reward categories from the recommended list of reward categories; dynamically selecting a second recommendation, the second recommendation comprising personalized rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories, the personalized rewards to accrue based on consumer purchase transactions by the first customer; and transmitting the second recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the one or more customer parameters include a customer age, a customer income, a customer location, a customer spending trend, or a customer credit score.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the list of reward categories include gas rewards, travel rewards, grocery rewards, casino rewards, hotel stay rewards, restaurant deals, or movie ticket rewards.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: evaluate the utilization of the recommended rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories; and update an algorithm based on the evaluation.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: select the one or more reward categories based on the customer profiles associated with the identified one or more of the second customers; and recommend rewards associated with the dynamically selected one or more reward categories.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: select the one or more reward categories based on a customer profile associated with the first customer; and recommend rewards associated with the dynamically selected one or more reward categories.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the algorithm includes a machine learning algorithm.
16. The method of claim 9 further comprising: determine the personalized rewards based on maximum savings that the first customer would receive on gas purchases, grocery shopping or travel tickets.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by one or more processors to perform operations for recommending personalized rewards based on customer profiles and customer preferences using machine learning models, the operations comprising: receiving, from a user device associated with a first customer, a request for initiating recommendation of personalized rewards; accessing values of one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer from a database; determining a range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters associated with the first customer; accessing values of the one or more customer parameters associated with a plurality of second customers from the database; comparing, using a first machine learning model, the range of values corresponding to each of the one or more customer parameters of the first customer with the values of the one or more customer parameters of the plurality of second customers to identify one or more of the plurality of second customers having customer parameter values that correspond to one or more of the customer parameter values associated with the first customer; analyzing, using a second machine learning model, customer profiles associated with the identified one or more of the second customers to determine a list of redeemable reward categories, wherein the customer profiles comprise historical purchase transaction information associated with the identified one or more of the second customers and wherein the redeemable reward categories comprise rewards that are redeemable for consumer purchase transactions; transmitting a first recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer, the first recommendation comprising the list of reward purchase categories determined based on the analyzing; receiving a selection by the first customer of one or more reward categories from the recommended list of reward categories; dynamically selecting a second recommendation, the second recommendation comprising personalized rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories, the personalized rewards to accrue based on consumer purchase transactions by the first customer; and transmitting the second recommendation to the user device associated with the first customer.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the one or more customer parameters include a customer age, a customer income, a customer location, a customer spending trend, or a customer credit score.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the list of reward categories include gas rewards, travel rewards, grocery rewards, casino rewards, hotel stay rewards, restaurant deals, or movie ticket rewards.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, the operations further comprising: evaluating the utilization of the recommended rewards associated with the selected one or more reward categories; and updating an algorithm based on the evaluation.
</claims>
</document>
