<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B25J9/16,G05B13/02,G05B19/402
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DE MAGISTRIS, GIOVANNI
INOUE TADANOBU
MUNAWAR, ASIM
TACHIBANA, RYUKI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66328516
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Decomposed perturbation approach using memory based learning for compliant assembly tasks
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method executed by a robotic system for performing a positional search process in an assembly task is presented. The method includes decomposing, by the robotic system, a perturbation motion into a plurality of actions, the perturbation motion being a motion for an assembly position searched by the robotic system, each action of the plurality of actions related to a specific direction. The method further includes performing reinforcement learning by selecting an action among decomposed actions and assembly movement actions at each step of the positional search process based on corresponding force-torque data received from at least one sensor associated with the robotic system. The method also includes outputting a best action at each step for completion of the assembly task as a result of the reinforcement learning.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method executed by a robotic system for performing a positional search process in an assembly task, the method comprising: decomposing, by the robotic system, a perturbation motion into a plurality of perturbations, the perturbation motion being a motion for an assembly position searched by the robotic system, each perturbation of the plurality of perturbations related to a specific direction, wherein a number of perturbations to be performed is selected by a user; performing reinforcement learning by selecting a perturbation among decomposed perturbations and assembly movements at each step of the positional search process based on corresponding force and torque data received from at least one sensor associated with the robotic system; and outputting a best action at each step for completion of the assembly task as a result of the reinforcement learning, the action defined by both perturbations and movements.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising triggering a positive reward in the reinforcement learning when the assembly task is completed and triggering a negative reward in the reinforcement learning when the assembly task fails.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the perturbation motion includes a circular motion of 360 degrees.
4. The method of claim 3, further comprising decomposing the perturbation motion with respect to a bottom center of an assembly.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the perturbation motion includes a roll-pitch-yaw rotation about the bottom center of the assembly.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein an external operator adds or removes objects from a workspace of the robotic system between or one more attempts of the assembly task.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising employing the reinforcement learning during a search phase and during an insertion phase of the assembly task.
8. A robotic system for performing a positional search process in an assembly task, the robotic system comprising: a robotic arm; and a control system communicatively coupled to the robotic arm, the control system storing executable program instructions for causing the robotic arm to perform the steps of: decomposing, by the robotic system, a perturbation motion into a plurality of perturbations, the perturbation motion being a motion for an assembly position searched by the robotic system, each perturbation of the plurality of perturbations related to a specific direction, wherein a number of perturbations to be performed is selected by a user; performing reinforcement learning by selecting a perturbation among decomposed perturbations and assembly movements at each step of the positional search process based on corresponding force and torque data received from at least one sensor associated with the robotic system; and outputting a best action at each step for completion of the assembly task as a result of the reinforcement learning, the action defined by both perturbations and movements.
9. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein a reward in the reinforcement learning is positive when the assembly task is completed and the reward in the reinforcement learning is negative when the assembly task fails.
10. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the perturbation motion includes a circular motion of 360 degrees.
11. The robotic system of claim 10, wherein the perturbation motion is decomposed with respect to a bottom center of an assembly.
12. The robotic system of claim 11, wherein the perturbation motion includes a roll-pitch-yaw rotation about the bottom center of the assembly.
13. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein an external operator adds or removes objects from a workspace of the robotic system between or one more attempts of the assembly task.
14. The robotic system of claim 8, wherein the reinforcement learning is used during a search phase and during an insertion phase of the assembly task.
15. A robotic system, comprising: a robot constructed to assemble a first component to a second component; at least one sensor coupled to the robot; a control system communicatively coupled to the robot and to the at least one sensor, the control system storing executable program instructions for executing assembly motion of the robot; a learning device communicatively coupled to the control system and operative to direct the robot via the control system, the control system decomposing a perturbation motion into a plurality of perturbations, the perturbation motion being a motion for an assembly position searched by the robotic system, each action of the plurality of perturbations related to a specific direction, and selecting, via reinforcement learning, a perturbation among decomposed perturbations and assembly movements at each step of a positional search process based on corresponding force and torque data received from the at least one sensor; and an output device for outputting a best action at each step for completion of an assembly task as a result of the reinforcement learning, the action defined by both perturbations and movements.
16. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein a reward in the reinforcement learning is positive when the assembly task is completed and the reward in the reinforcement learning is negative when the assembly task fails.
17. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein the perturbation motion includes a circular motion of 360 degrees.
18. The robotic system of claim 17, wherein the perturbation motion is decomposed with respect to a bottom center of an assembly.
19. The robotic system of claim 18, wherein the perturbation motion includes a roll-pitch-yaw rotation about the bottom center of the assembly.
20. The robotic system of claim 15, wherein an external operator adds or removes objects from a workspace of the robotic system between or one more attempts of the assembly task.
</claims>
</document>
