<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SZARSKI, MARTIN ALEXANDER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66476355
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Characterization of melted veil strand ratios in plies of fiber material
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided for characterizing a ply of fiber having a thermoplastic veil. One method includes acquiring an image of a fiber material comprising strands of fiber and further comprising a veil of filaments of thermoplastic, subdividing the image into slices, determining an amount of melted filaments depicted within each of the slices, and determining an amount of unmelted filaments depicted within each of the slices.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for characterizing a ply of fiber having a thermoplastic veil, the method comprising: acquiring an image of a surface of the ply, the ply comprising unidirectional strands of fiber and further comprising a veil disposed atop the unidirectional strands of fiber, the veil comprising melted filaments of thermoplastic and unmelted filaments of thermoplastic that are depicted in the image; subdividing the image into slices that depict the melted filaments and the unmelted filaments; classifying regions that are linear within each of the slices into classifications selected from the group consisting of: melted filament, unmelted filament, and empty of filament; determining an amount of the melted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications; and determining an amount of the unmelted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: quantifying an amount of melting of the veil for each slice, based on the number of melted filaments and the number of unmelted filaments for that slice; and quantifying an amount of melting of the veil for the image, based on the amount of melting of the veil for each slice.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein: determining the amount of melted filaments comprises identifying linear portions of each slice that are classified as-melted filament; and determining the amount of unmelted filaments comprises identifying linear portions of each slice that are classified as unmelted filament.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein: the determining steps are performed via a neural network that has been trained.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein: the neural network comprises a convolutional neural network.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: comparing an amount of melting of the veil for the image to design tolerances; and transmitting a notification in response to determining that the amount of melting of the veil for the image is not within the design tolerances.
7. The method of claim 1 further comprising: distinguishing melted filaments from unmelted filaments based upon differences in at least one of brightness or color.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein: the strands of fiber are selected from the group consisting of carbon fiber, glass fiber, metallic fiber, and ceramic fiber.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein: the strands of fiber are strands of carbon fiber.
10. A portion of an aircraft assembled according to the method of claim 1.
11. A non-transitory computer readable medium embodying programmed instructions which, when executed by a processor, are operable for performing a method for characterizing a ply of fiber having a thermoplastic veil, the method comprising: acquiring an image of a surface of a ply, the ply comprising unidirectional strands of fiber and further comprising a veil disposed atop the unidirectional strands of fiber, the veil comprising melted filaments of thermoplastic and unmelted filaments of thermoplastic that are depicted in the image; subdividing the image into slices that depict the melted filaments and the unmelted filaments; classifying regions within each of the slices into classifications selected from the group consisting of: melted filament, unmelted filament, and empty of filament; determining an amount of the melted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications; and determining an amount of the unmelted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications.
12. A portion of an aircraft assembled according to the method defined by the instructions stored on the computer readable medium of claim 11.
13. An apparatus for characterizing a ply of fiber having a thermoplastic veil, the apparatus comprising: an interface that receives an image of a surface of a ply, the ply comprising unidirectional strands of fiber and further comprising a veil disposed atop the unidirectional strands of fiber, the veil comprising melted filaments of thermoplastic and unmelted filaments of thermoplastic that are depicted in the image; and a controller that subdivides the image into slices, classifies regions that are linear within each of the slices into classifications selected from the group consisting of: melted filament, unmelted filament, and empty of filament, determines an amount of the melted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications, and determines an amount of the unmelted filaments depicted within each of the slices based on the classifications.
14. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the controller quantifies an amount of melting of the veil for each slice based on the number of melted filaments and the number of unmelted filaments for that slice, and quantifies an amount of melting of the veil for the image, based on the amount of melting of the veil for each slice.
15. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the controller operates a neural network that determines the amount of melted filaments by identifying linear portions of each slice that are classified as melted filament; and the controller determines the amount of unmelted filaments by identifying linear portions of each slice that are classified as unmelted filament.
16. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the controller determines the amount of melted filaments and the amount of unmelted filaments via a neural network that has been trained.
17. The apparatus of claim 16 wherein: the neural network comprises a convolutional neural network.
18. The apparatus of claim 13 further comprising: comparing an amount of melting of the veil for the image to design tolerances; and transmitting a notification in response to determining that the amount of melting of the veil for the image is not within the design tolerances.
19. The apparatus of claim 13 wherein: the strands of fiber are selected from the group consisting of carbon fiber, glass fiber, metallic fiber, and ceramic fiber.
20. Fabricating a portion of an aircraft using the apparatus of claim 13.
</claims>
</document>
