<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2005-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/10,G06Q20/38,G06Q40/04,G06Q40/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTERCONTINENTAL EXCHANGE HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADLE, STEPHEN RICHARD
ELWORTHY, FORBES HERBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
37805518
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods, software, and systems for over-the-counter trading
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, software, and hardware are disclosed for providing verified real time price quotes in an over-the-counter financial market. Systems are described that can comprise methods, software, and/or hardware to provide verified real time price information for securities traded over-the-counter. Verification methods of the invention include identifying suspect source data, wherein the suspect source data includes information about the price of a security, verifying the suspect source data, and displaying to a user a verified price quote of a security traded in an over-the-counter market to a user. The verification methods of the invention include using hash functions and hash tables to process suspect source data, wherein the hashing allows for confidential processing while at the same time maintaining the ability to match a price quote to the source of the price quote.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for providing real time verification and display of data identified as suspect data in an electronic trading system, the electronic trading system comprising a processor, a computer-readable medium, a screen, and a telecommunications line, the method comprising: receiving, by the electronic trading system over the telecommunications line from multiple sources, source data comprising price data and data identifying an originator of the price data ("originator data"), the source data having multiple data formats; identifying a portion of the source data that comprises suspect data by: extracting one or more price quotes that include bids and offers from the source data, comparing the price quotes to at least one pre-selected criterion, and identifying as suspect data those price quotes that violate the at least one pre-selected criterion, the suspect data comprising price data and originator data from at least two different sources of the multiple sources; verifying a validity of the suspect data in real-time by: analyzing real-time market data, and confirming, based on the analyzing, that the suspect data from at least one of the at least two different sources of the multiple sources falls within a predetermined range of the real-time market data ("verified data"); and displaying in real time on the screen of the electronic trading system the verified data together with a portion of the source data that does not comprise the suspect data.
2. A method according to claim 1, wherein the source data is received from at least a first source and a second source, wherein the source data received from the first source is in a different format than the source data received from the second source.
3. A method according to claim 1, wherein the format of the source data comprises an email, html, text, xml, or combination thereof.
4. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of processing the source data comprises parsing the source data before comparing the source data to the at least one pre-selected criterion.
5. A method according to claim 4, wherein the parsing comprises categorizing words, patterns, and/or numbers in the data source to identify market data in the source data.
6. A method according to claim 1, further comprising designating source data that does not meet the at least one criterion as suspect data.
7. A method according to claim 1, wherein the step of processing the source data comprises assigning an anonymous identifier to the source data.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein analyzing real-time market data, further comprises: compiling, together, the suspect data from said at least two different sources of the multiple sources, encoding the compiled suspect data into a single transmission using the hash key, and securely transmitting the single transmission to a third-party verification system for verification.
9. The method according to claim 8, wherein confirming, based on the analyzing, that the suspect data from at least one of the at least two different sources of the multiple sources falls within the predetermined range of the real-time market data ("verified data") comprises: receiving results of the verification from the third party verification system, the results comprising at least one verification that the suspect data from at least one of the at least two different sources is valid.
10. The method according to claim 9, wherein the results further comprise an indication that the suspect data from at least one other of the at least two different sources in invalid.
11. The method according to claim 10, further comprising: omitting the invalid suspect data from the screen of the electronic trading system.
12. A tangible computer-readable medium of an electronic trading system, the electronic trading system comprising the computer-readable medium, a processor, a screen, and a telecommunications line, the tangible computer-readable medium containing computer-executable instructions that when executed cause the electronic trading system to perform the steps comprising: receiving, by the electronic trading system over the telecommunications line from multiple sources, source data comprising price data and data identifying an originator of the price data ("originator data"), the source data having multiple data formats; identifying a portion of the source data that comprises suspect data by: extracting one or more price quotes that include bids and offers from the source data, comparing the price quotes to at least one pre-selected criterion, and identifying as suspect data those price quotes that violate the at least one pre-selected criterion, the suspect data comprising price data and originator data from at least two different sources of the multiple sources; verifying a validity of the suspect data in real-time by: analyzing real-time market data, and confirming, based on the analyzing, that the suspect data from at least one of the at least two different sources of the multiple sources falls within a predetermined range of the real-time market data ("verified data"); and displaying in real time on the screen of the electronic trading system the verified data together with a portion of the source data that does not comprise the suspect data.
13. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the source data received from at least a first source and a second source, wherein the source data received from the first source is in a different format than the source data received from the second source.
14. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the format of the source data comprises an email, html, text, xml, or combinations thereof.
15. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 12, wherein the step of processing the source data comprises parsing the source data before comparing the source data to the at least one pre-selected criterion.
16. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the parsing comprises categorizing words, patterns, and/or numbers in the data source to identify market data in the source data.
17. The tangible computer-readable medium of claim 12, further comprising computer-executable instructions for designating source data that does not meet the at least one criterion as suspect data.
18. An electronic trading system comprising: a processor, a screen, a telecommunications line, and a tangible computer-readable medium containing computer-executable instructions that when executed cause the electronic trading system to perform the steps comprising: receiving, by the electronic trading system over the telecommunications line from multiple sources, source data comprising price data and data identifying an originator of the price data ("originator data"), the source data having multiple data formats; identifying a portion of the source data that comprises suspect data by: extracting one or more price quotes that include bids and offers from the source data, comparing the price quotes to at least one pre-selected criterion, and identifying as suspect data those price quotes that violate the at least one pre-selected criterion, the suspect data comprising price data and originator data from at least two different sources of the multiple sources; verifying a validity of the suspect data in real-time by: analyzing real-time market data, and confirming, based on the analyzing, that the suspect data from at least one of the at least two different sources of the multiple sources falls within a predetermined range of the real-time market data ("verified data"); and displaying in real time on the screen of the electronic trading system the verified data together with a portion of the source data that does not comprise the suspect data.
19. The trading system of claim 18 wherein the source data received from at least a first source and a second source, wherein the source data received from the first source is in a different format than the source data received from the second source.
20. The trading system of claim 18, wherein the format of the source data comprises an email, html, text, xml, or combination thereof.
21. The trading system of the claim 18, wherein the step of processing the source data comprises parsing the source data before comparing the source data to the at least one pre-selected criterion.
22. The trading system of claim 21, wherein the parsing comprises categorizing words, patterns, and/or numbers in the data source to identify market data in the source data.
</claims>
</document>
