<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/02,G10L15/18,G10L15/22,G10L25/63,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHAN, RAYMOND
INDYK, BENJAMIN
PODGORNY, IGOR A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63078745
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining application experience based on paralinguistic information
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for determining application experience of a user based on paralinguistic information determined for the user. One embodiment presented herein includes a computer-implemented method, which includes receiving, at a computing device, one or more audio streams. Each audio stream includes audio from a user interacting with at least one page of an application. The computer-implemented method also includes generating paralinguistic information from at least one of the audio streams. The paralinguistic information characterizes acoustic aspects of the audio stream that are distinct from verbal content of the audio stream. The computer-implemented method further includes determining, from the paralinguistic information, at least a current user sentiment regarding the at least one page, determining, based on evaluating the current user sentiment, that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application, and taking action to reduce the likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for determining application experience of a user, comprising: receiving, at a computing device, an audio stream comprising audio of a user interacting with an application; extracting paralinguistic information from the audio stream, wherein the paralinguistic information characterizes acoustic aspects of the audio stream that are distinct from verbal content of the audio stream; determining, based on the paralinguistic information, a sentiment of the user; generating, based on the sentiment of the user and a propensity model, an abandonment score associated with a probability of the user discontinuing use of the application; determining, based on the abandonment score meeting a predetermined threshold, the user is predicted to discontinue using the application; and initiating an intervention to reduce a likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein initiating the intervention includes determining a type of intervention that reduces the likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein initiating the intervention comprises: modifying a user interface.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the intervention comprises at least one of a real-time intervention or an off-line intervention.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application comprises: determining a current user sentiment regarding a first page from the paralinguistic information; and determining that the current user sentiment regarding the first page satisfies a predetermined condition for the determination that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the current user sentiment regarding the first page comprises a plurality of emotional states predicted for the user based on the paralinguistic information.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application is further based on a predetermined priority associated with the application.
8. A computing device for determining application experience of a user, the computing device comprising: a memory; and a processor configured to: receive, at a computing device, an audio stream comprising audio of a user interacting with an application; extract paralinguistic information from the audio stream, wherein the paralinguistic information characterizes acoustic aspects of the audio stream that are distinct from verbal content of the audio stream; determine, based on the paralinguistic information, a sentiment of the user; generate, based on the sentiment of the user and a propensity model, an abandonment score representing a probability of the user discontinuing use of the application; determine, based on the abandonment score meeting a predetermined threshold, the user is predicted to discontinue using the application; and initiate an intervention to reduce a likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein initiating the intervention includes determining a type of intervention that reduces the likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
10. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the intervention comprises at least one of a real-time intervention or an off-line intervention.
11. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to initiate the intervention by modifying a user interface.
12. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to determine that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application by: determining a current user sentiment regarding a first page from the paralinguistic information; and determining that the current user sentiment regarding the first page satisfies a predetermined condition for the determination that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application.
13. The computing device of claim 12, wherein the current user sentiment regarding the first page comprises a plurality of emotional states predicted for the user based on the paralinguistic information.
14. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the processor is configured to determine that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application further based on a predetermined priority associated with the application.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method for determining application experience of a user, the method comprising: receiving, at a computing device, an audio stream comprising audio of a user interacting with an application; extracting paralinguistic information from the audio stream, wherein the paralinguistic information characterizes acoustic aspects of the audio stream that are distinct from verbal content of the audio stream; determining, based on the paralinguistic information, a sentiment of the user; generating, based on the sentiment of the user and a propensity model, an abandonment score representing a probability of the user discontinuing use of the application; determining, based on the abandonment score meeting a predetermined threshold, the user is predicted to discontinue using the application; and initiating an intervention to reduce a likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein initiating the intervention includes determining a type of intervention that reduces the likelihood of the user discontinuing use of the application.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the intervention comprises at least one of a real-time intervention or an off-line intervention.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein initiating the intervention comprises modifying a user interface.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application comprises: determining a current user sentiment regarding a first page from the paralinguistic information; and determining that the current user sentiment regarding the first page satisfies a predetermined condition for the determination that the user is predicted to discontinue use of the application.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the current user sentiment regarding the first page comprises a plurality of emotional states predicted for the user based on the paralinguistic information.
</claims>
</document>
