<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B3/36,H04L12/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GERSZBERG IRWIN
HENRY, PAUL SHALA
BARZEGAR FARHAD
VANNUCCI, GIOVANNI
WILLIS, III, THOMAS M.
BARNICKEL, DONALD J.
BENNETT, ROBERT
WOLNIANSKY, PETER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72838614
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for communicating between a waveguide system and a base station device
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, a system for receiving electromagnetic waves that propagate along a transmission medium, generating, according to the electromagnetic waves, first signals and second signals; wirelessly providing, via a first dielectric antenna of a first waveguide system, the first signals to an access point; and wirelessly providing, via a second dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, the second signals to a second waveguide system. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first waveguide system, first electromagnetic waves that propagate along a transmission medium, wherein the transmission medium comprises an external surface, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path, and wherein the first electromagnetic waves convey first data; generating, by the first waveguide system, according to the first electromagnetic waves, first signals and second signals; wirelessly providing, by a first dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, the first signals to a switch communicatively coupled to an access point; and wirelessly providing, by a second dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, the second signals to a second waveguide system, wherein the first signals convey at least a first portion of the first data, and wherein the second signals convey at least a second portion of the first data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first signals conform to an Ethernet protocol.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the switch comprises an Ethernet switch.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first signals are baseband signals conforming to an Ethernet protocol.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the wirelessly providing the first signals to the switch further comprises generating, according to the first signals, second electromagnetic waves supplied to a feed point of the first dielectric antenna.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the wirelessly providing the second signals to the second waveguide system further comprises generating, according to the second signals, second electromagnetic waves supplied to a feed point of the second dielectric antenna.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the first dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, first wireless signals generated by the switch; and receiving, by the second dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, second wireless signals generated by the second waveguide system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the switch facilitates generating, according to routing information conveyed by the first signals, third signals, wherein the access point facilitates generating, according to the third signals, a first wireless signal that conveys the at least the first portion of the first data, and wherein the first wireless signal is directed to a communication device within a communication range of the access point.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the access point facilitates generating, according to a second wireless signal received from the communication device, fourth signals supplied to the switch, wherein the fourth signals convey second data, wherein the switch facilitates supplying, according to the fourth signals, a third wireless signal directed to the first dielectric antenna, the first dielectric antenna generating second electromagnetic waves that convey in whole or in part the second data.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first wireless signal and the second wireless signal conform to a 4G, 5G, or next generation signaling protocol.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the second waveguide system facilitates generating, according to the second signals wirelessly received from the second dielectric antenna, second electromagnetic waves that convey the at least the second portion of the first data.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating comprises frequency-shifting the first electromagnetic waves, demodulating the first electromagnetic waves, or a combination thereof to generate the first signals and the second signals.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the switch facilitates generating third signals by frequency-shifting the first signals, demodulating the first signals, or a combination thereof.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide system is coupled to a first span of the transmission medium, and wherein the second waveguide system is coupled to a second span of the transmission medium.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the first span, wherein second electromagnetic waves propagate along the second span, and wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagating along the first span are substantially isolated from the second electromagnetic waves propagating along the second span.
16. A first waveguide system, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving first electromagnetic waves that propagate along a transmission medium, wherein the transmission medium comprises an external surface, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; generating, according to first electromagnetic waves, first signals and second signals; wirelessly providing the first signals to a switch via a first dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, wherein the switch is communicatively coupled to an access point; and wirelessly providing the second signals to a second waveguide system via a second dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system.
17. The first waveguide system of claim 16, wherein the switch generates, according to the first signals, third signals, wherein the third signals convey first data supplied by the first signals, wherein the access point facilitates generating, according to the third signals, a first wireless signal directed to a communication device within a communication range of the access point.
18. The first waveguide system of claim 16, wherein the second signals convey second data, wherein the second waveguide system facilitates generating, according to the second signals, second electromagnetic waves that convey the second data.
19. A machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor of a first waveguide system, facilitates performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving first electromagnetic waves that propagate along a transmission medium, wherein the transmission medium comprises an external surface, wherein the first electromagnetic waves propagate along the transmission medium without requiring an electrical return path; generating, according to the first electromagnetic waves, first signals and second signals; wirelessly providing, via a first dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, the first signals to an access point; and wirelessly providing, via a second dielectric antenna of the first waveguide system, the second signals to a second waveguide system.
20. The machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the first signals convey first data, wherein the second signals convey s wherein the access point facilitates transmitting first wireless signals that convey the first data to a communication device, wherein the second signals convey second data, and wherein the second waveguide system facilitates generating second electromagnetic waves that convey the second data.
</claims>
</document>
