<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/87,G01S13/931,G06T15/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SIM, JAY H.
SONG, XIAOFENG F.
Aluru, Sai Vishnu
Yaldo, Valor
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72615000
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for vision sensor detection
</title>

<abstract>
Vision sensor detection systems and methods for mobile platforms that proactively prepare for impending lighting scenarios. The method includes determining or predicting a lighting scenario (LS) as a function of GPS data and wirelessly received mapping data. An on-board camera system is then operated in the LS using an associated predefined profile (PDP) having a tone-mapping setting associated with the LS. Received sensor data and camera data is used to confirm each predicted and current LS; Each predicted LS change results in retrieval of an associated PDP with its tone-mapping setting. Each confirmed LS results in using the sensor data and camera data to customize the tone-mapping setting. The method cycles during operation of the mobile platform.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vision sensor detection system for a mobile platform, comprising: a transceiver that receives mapping data from an external source; a camera system that senses light levels external to the mobile platform as a function of adjustable tone-mapping settings; a sensor system that generates sensor data including distances to objects; a geographical positioning system (GPS) that generates GPS data including location and movement of the mobile platform; a processor programmed with a tone-mapping program and a plurality of predefined profiles (PDPs) for an associated plurality of lighting scenarios (LSs), each PDP having a tone-mapping setting for the camera system, the processor configured to: receive the mapping data, GPS data, the sensor data, and the camera data; operate the camera system in a first lighting scenario (LS1) using an associated first PDP (PDP1); display camera data on a display system; predict a lighting scenario (LS) change as a function of GPS data and mapping data, wherein the LS change comprises a change from LS1 to a second lighting scenario (LS2); confirm the LS change using the camera data and the sensor data; retrieve a PDP2 associated with LS2; and operate the camera system using PDP2.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine whether the LS2 is still current; and when the LS2 is still current, process the sensor data and the camera data to thereby customize the tone-mapping setting from PDP2; and operate the camera system using the customized tone-mapping setting.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the processor is further configured to: when the LS2 is no longer current, predict an impending light scenario as a function of the mapping data, the sensor data, and the camera data; retrieve a PDP associated with the impending light scenario; and operate the camera system using the PDP associated with the impending light scenario.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the impending light scenario is the same as LS1, and the PDP associated with the impending light scenario is PDP1.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the impending light scenario is a third lighting scenario (LS3), and the PDP associated with the impending light scenario is PDP3.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is a tunnel.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is a commercial parking garage.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is an entrance to an airport terminal.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a commercial parking garage, and LS2 is a sunny daytime.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a commercial parking garage, and LS2 is nighttime.
11. A processor-implemented method for vision sensor detection for a mobile platform, comprising: receiving mapping data from an external source; receiving camera data from a camera system that senses light levels external to the mobile platform as a function of adjustable tone-mapping settings; receiving sensor data from a sensor system; receiving geographical positioning system (GPS) data including location and movement of the mobile platform from a GPS; determining a lighting scenario (LS1) as a function of GPS data and mapping data; operating the camera system in LS1 using an associated first PDP (PDP1), by referencing a plurality of predefined profiles (PDPs) for an associated plurality of lighting scenarios (LSs), each PDP having a tone-mapping setting associated with its associated LS; displaying the camera data on a display system; predicting a lighting scenario (LS) change as a function of GPS data and mapping data, wherein the LS change comprises a change from LS1 to a second lighting scenario (LS2); confirming the LS change using the camera data and the sensor data; retrieving a PDP2 associated with LS2; and operating the camera system using PDP2.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining whether the LS2 is still current; and when the LS2 is still current, processing the sensor data and the camera data to thereby customize the tone-mapping setting from PDP2; and operating the camera system using the customized tone-mapping setting.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: when the LS2 is no longer current, predicting an impending light scenario as a function of the mapping data, the sensor data, and the camera data; retrieving a PDP associated with the impending light scenario; and operating the camera system using the PDP associated with the impending light scenario.
14. The method of claim 13 wherein the impending light scenario is the same as LS1, and the PDP associated with the impending light scenario is PDP1.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the impending light scenario is a third lighting scenario (LS3), and the PDP associated with the impending light scenario is PDP3.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is a tunnel.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is a commercial parking garage.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a sunny daytime, and LS2 is an entrance to an airport terminal.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the LS1 is a commercial parking garage, and LS2 is a sunny daytime or nighttime.
20. A vision sensor detection system for a mobile platform, comprising: a camera system that senses light levels external to the mobile platform as a function of adjustable tone-mapping settings; a sensor system that generates sensor data including distances to objects; a processor programmed with a tone-mapping program and a plurality of predefined profiles (PDPs) for an associated plurality of lighting scenarios (LSs), each PDP having a tone-mapping setting for the camera system, the processor configured to: receive mapping data, GPS data, the sensor data, and the camera data; operate the camera system in a first lighting scenario (LS1) using tone-mapping settings from an associated first PDP (PDP1); display camera data on a display system; predict a lighting scenario (LS) change as a function of GPS data and mapping data, wherein the LS change comprises a change from LS1 to a second lighting scenario (LS2); confirm the LS change using the camera data and the sensor data; retrieve a PDP2 associated with LS2; and operate the camera system using tone-mapping settings in the PDP2.
</claims>
</document>
