<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T19/00,H04B17/27,H04B17/318,H04B17/373
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UBER TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
BADALAMENTI, JOHN CONWAY
SUMERS, THEODORE RUSSELL
SANCHEZ, CHRISTOPHER MICHAEL
INCH, JOSHUA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65437534
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Augmented reality assisted pickup
</title>

<abstract>
A network system, such as a transport management system, uses augmented reality (AR) to identify an approaching vehicle. Responsive to receiving a trip request, a trip management module matches the rider with an available driver and instructs a trip monitoring module to monitor the location of the driver's vehicle as it travels to the pickup location. When the driver's vehicle is within a threshold distance of the pickup location, an AR control module instructs the rider client device to begin a live video stream and instructs an image recognition module to monitor the video stream for the driver's vehicle. Responsive to the driver's vehicle entering the field of view of the camera on the rider client device, the AR control module selects computer-generated AR elements and instructs the rider client device to visually augment the video stream to identify the driver's vehicle as it approaches the pickup location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing augmented reality identification of a vehicle comprising: receiving, at a network system including one or more processors, from a computing device associated with a rider, a set of service data, the set of service data including an origin location and a request for a driver to transport the rider from the origin location; matching the rider with one of a plurality of available drivers, the driver associated with a vehicle and a computing device; monitoring a location of the vehicle based on location information received from the driver computing device; responsive to determining that the vehicle is within a threshold distance of a pickup location associated with the origin location, instructing the rider computing device to display a live video feed, the video feed being captured by a camera on the rider computing device; comparing a plurality of characteristics of an approaching vehicle with stored information associated with the vehicle to determine a vehicle score, the plurality of characteristics including an estimated time of arrival of the vehicle at the pickup location; responsive to the vehicle score exceeding a vehicle score threshold, identifying the approaching vehicle as the vehicle; and instructing an augmented reality application on the computing device to visually augment the video feed with augmented reality elements indicating the vehicle.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising identifying driver information associated with the driver and the vehicle.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the driver information includes a designation of whether the driver is associated with an indication device configured to receive a rider-specified output configuration.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality elements include one or more of images, video, text, and graphics.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality elements include a graphical overlay in a shape of the vehicle.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality elements include a graphical representation of a rider-specified output configuration for an indication device.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: instructing the rider computing device and the driver computing device to transmit unique radio signals and report received radio signals to the network system; and responsive to the signal strength of the received radio signals exceeding a signal strength threshold, determining that the driver computing device is within a threshold distance of the pickup location.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer-executable instructions that, in response to executing, cause a device comprising a processor to perform operations, comprising: receiving, at a network system including one or more processors, from a computing device associated with a rider, a set of service data, the set of service data including an origin location and a request for a driver to transport the rider from the origin location; matching the rider with one of a plurality of available drivers, the driver associated with a vehicle and a computing device; monitoring a location of the vehicle based on location information received from the driver computing device; responsive to determining that the vehicle is within a threshold distance of a pickup location associated with the origin location, instructing the rider computing device to display a live video feed, the video feed being captured by a camera on the rider computing device; comparing a plurality of characteristics of an approaching vehicle with stored information associated with the vehicle to determine a vehicle score, the plurality of characteristics including an estimated time of arrival of the vehicle at the pickup location; responsive to the vehicle score exceeding a vehicle score threshold, identifying the approaching vehicle as the vehicle; and instructing an augmented reality application on the computing device to visually augment the video feed with augmented reality elements indicating the vehicle.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising identifying driver information associated with the driver and the vehicle.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the driver information includes a designation of whether the driver is associated with an indication device configured to receive a rider-specified output configuration.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, further comprising: instructing the rider computing device and the driver computing device to transmit unique radio signals and report received radio signals to the network system; and responsive to the signal strength of the received radio signals exceeding a signal strength threshold, determining that the driver computing device is within a threshold distance of the pickup location.
12. A computer system comprising: one or more computer processors for executing computer program instructions; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions executable by the one or more computer processors to perform steps comprising: receiving at a network system including one or more processors, from a computing device associated with a rider, a set of service data, the set of service data including an origin location and a request for a vehicle to transport the rider from the origin location; matching the rider with one of a plurality of available vehicles; monitoring a location of the vehicle; responsive to determining that the vehicle is within a threshold distance of a pickup location associated with the origin location, instructing the rider computing device to display a live video feed, the video feed being captured by a camera on the rider computing device; comparing a plurality of characteristics of an approaching vehicle with stored information associated with the vehicle to determine a vehicle score, the plurality of characteristics including an estimated time of arrival of the vehicle at the pickup location; responsive to the vehicle score exceeding a vehicle score threshold, identifying the approaching vehicle as the vehicle; and instructing an augmented reality application on the rider computing device to visually augment the video feed with augmented reality elements indicating the vehicle.
13. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising identifying vehicle information associated with the vehicle.
14. The computer system of claim 12, further comprising: instructing the rider computing device and an on-board computing system of the vehicle to transmit unique radio signals and report received radio signals to the network system; and responsive to the signal strength of the received radio signals exceeding a signal strength threshold, determining that the vehicle is within a threshold distance of the pickup location.
</claims>
</document>
