<document>

<filing_date>
2014-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/02,H04W4/02,H04W4/021
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIX, JEREMY
MEREDITH, SHELDON KENT
PATTERSON, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
54335179
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile coupon discounts and valuation based on probability of a geofence collision
</title>

<abstract>
To provide mobile device coupons and discounts, a mobile device couponing system is provided to generate and send coupons to mobile devices based on a probability that the mobile device is within a defined region. The value of the coupons can be inversely proportional to the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region. The probabilities can be precomputed by calculating the probability that each cell in grid in or around the defined region is in the defined region using a set of standardized location resolutions. When location information is received from the mobile device, the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region can be retrieved based on the closest cell that matches the location indicated in the location information and the standardized location resolution closest to the location resolution indicated by the mobile device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining multiple groups of cells in a grid reference system associated with a mobile network that correspond to respective predetermined cells, wherein respective groups of cells of the multiple groups of cells represent possible locations due to respective error estimates associated with respective resolutions of respective location detection systems that identify the respective predetermined cells, wherein the respective groups of cells of the multiple groups of cells correspond to respective error estimates, wherein a size of a cell from the respective groups of cells is determined based on resource data indicative of information for computational resource availability associated with the processor, and wherein the size of the cell is adjusted in response to a change in the computational resource availability; receiving information representing location information for a mobile device, wherein the location information comprises a cell location in the grid reference system that corresponds to a cell of the respective predetermined cells and an indication of a type of location detection system; selecting a group of cells of the multiple groups of cells based on the type of location detection system; determining a probability that the mobile device is within a defined region associated with the mobile network based on determining an overlap area of the group of cells and the defined region; determining a base value of a coupon, wherein the base value of the coupon is based the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region; determining a first coupon adjustment value, wherein the first coupon adjustment value is based on profile information comprising demographic information, information about conversation history, and purchase history; determining a second coupon adjustment value, wherein the second coupon adjustment value is based on preference information associated with the profile information, received from a retailer or service provider associated with the defined region; determining a third coupon adjustment value, wherein the third coupon adjustment value is based on a direction of movement of the mobile device; determining a fourth coupon adjustment value, wherein the fourth coupon adjustment value is based on a conversion rate of a user associated with the mobile device; determining a final coupon value based on a combination of the base value of the coupon, the first coupon adjustment value, the second coupon adjustment value, the third coupon adjustment value, and the fourth coupon adjustment value; and initiating sending the coupon comprising the final coupon value to an email address associated with the mobile device.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining respective probabilities that the location is within the defined region based on the respective error estimates.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting the probability from the respective probabilities based on the indication of the type of location detection system.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the determining the respective probabilities that the location is within the defined region comprises: determining the respective probabilities that the location is within the defined region for a group of locations near the defined region.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the determining the probability comprises: determining a second region defined by the location and the error estimate; determining a first size of an intersection area where the second region and the defined region overlap; and dividing the first size of the intersection area by a second size of the second region.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the value of the coupon is higher when the probability the mobile device is within the defined region is lower.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein no coupon is sent when the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region is above or below respective predetermined probabilities.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining the value of the coupon based on profile information associated with the mobile device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the profile information comprises demographic information, information about coupon conversion history, and purchase history.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the error estimate is based on a type of location determination process.
11. A method, comprising: determining, by a device comprising a processor, multiple groups of cells in a grid reference system associated with a mobile network that correspond to respective predetermined cells, wherein respective groups of cells of the multiple groups of cells represent possible locations resulting from respective error estimates associated with respective resolutions of respective location detection systems that identify the respective predetermined cells, and wherein the respective error estimates correspond to different error estimates; adjusting, by the device, a size of a cell from the respective predetermined cells in response to a change in resource data indicative of information for computational resource availability associated with the processor; receiving, by the device, information representing location information for a mobile device, wherein the location information comprises a cell location in the grid reference system that corresponds to a cell of the respective predetermined cells and an indication of a type of location detection system; selecting, by the device, a group of cells of the multiple groups of cells based on the type of location detection system; determining, by the device, a probability that the mobile device is within a geofence region associated with the mobile network based on determining an overlap area of the group of cells and a defined region; determining, by the device, a base value of a coupon, wherein the base value of the coupon is based the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region; determining. by the device, a first coupon adjustment value, wherein the first coupon adjustment value is based on profile information comprising demographic information, information about conversation history, and purchase history; determining, by the device, a second coupon adjustment value, wherein the second coupon adjustment value is based on preference information associated with the profile information, received from a retailer or service provider associated with the defined region; determining, by the device, a third coupon adjustment value, wherein the third coupon adjustment value is based on a direction of movement of the mobile device; determining, by the device, a fourth coupon adjustment value, wherein the fourth coupon adjustment value is based on a conversion rate of a user associated with the mobile device; determining, by the device, a final coupon value based on a combination of the base value of the coupon, the first coupon adjustment value, the second coupon adjustment value, the third coupon adjustment value, and the fourth coupon adjustment value; and transmitting, by the device, the coupon comprising the final coupon value to an email address associated with the mobile device.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining sets of probabilities for cells within a predetermined distance from the geofence region.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the determining that the probability that the mobile device is within the geofence region further comprises: determining a second region defined by the location and the location resolution; determining a first size of an intersection area where the geofence region and the second region overlap; and dividing the first size of the intersection area by a second size of the second region.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: generating, by the device, the coupon offer with the value that is inversely proportional to the probability the mobile device is within the geofence region.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: cancelling, by the device, the coupon offer when the probability that the mobile device is within the geofence region transitions a threshold probability.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, by the device, the value of the coupon offer based on profile information associated with the mobile device.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the profile information comprises demographic information, information about coupon conversion history, and a purchase history.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: computing multiple groups of cells in a grid reference system associated with a communication network that correspond to respective specified cells, wherein a group of cells of the multiple groups of cells represents a possible location due to an error estimate associated with a resolution of a location detection system that identifies the specified cell, wherein respective groups of cells of the multiple groups of cells correspond to respective error estimates associated with respective location detection systems, wherein a size of a cell from the respective groups of cells is determined based on resource data indicative of information for computational resources associated with the processor, and wherein the size of the cell is modified in response to a change in the computational resources; receiving information representing location information for a mobile device, wherein the location information comprises a cell location in the grid reference system that corresponds to and an indication of a type of location detection system; selecting a group of cells of the multiple groups of cells based on the type of location detection system and the cell location; determining a probability that the mobile device is within a defined region associated with a communication network as a function of an overlap area of the group of cells and the defined region; determining a base value of a coupon, wherein the base value of the coupon is based the probability that the mobile device is within the defined region; determining a first coupon adjustment value, wherein the first coupon adjustment value is based on profile information comprising demographic information, information about conversation history, and purchase history; determining a second coupon adjustment value, wherein the second coupon adjustment value is based on preference information associated with the profile information, received from a retailer or service provider associated with the defined region; determining a third coupon adjustment value, wherein the third coupon adjustment value is based on a direction of movement of the mobile device; determining a fourth coupon adjustment value, wherein the fourth coupon adjustment value is based on a conversion rate of a user associated with the mobile device; determining a final coupon value based on a combination of the base value of the coupon, the first coupon adjustment value, the second coupon adjustment value, the third coupon adjustment value, and the fourth coupon adjustment value; and transmitting the coupon comprising the final coupon value to an email address associated with the mobile device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: adjusting the value of the coupon based on profile information associated with the mobile device.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the profile information comprises demographic information, information about coupon conversion history, and a purchase history.
</claims>
</document>
