<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-31
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04W24/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PAZHYANNUR, RAJESH S.
BISWAS, SUJIT
SIDDIQI, WASEEM A.
SHIVANNA, MANJULA
GAONKAR, KEDAR KRISHNANAND
IVANOVIC, ALEKSANDAR MIODRAG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66950815
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wireless access point throughput
</title>

<abstract>
Predicting data throughput with a user device comprises a wireless system supported by wireless access points receiving signals from the user device. A wireless prediction system receives data from the wireless system, where the data comprises characteristics of the wireless access point, characteristics of communications with user computing devices, and data throughput statistics. The prediction system categorizes the received data based on one or more of a set of characteristics and determines a maximum data throughput capacity for each of the one or more wireless access points for each of the one or more set of characteristics. The system receives a request for a prediction of data throughput capacity for a particular wireless access point and, based on the characteristics of the particular wireless access point, determines an estimated data throughput capacity based on data throughputs of wireless access points having similar characteristics.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: receiving, by one or more computing devices, data from one or more wireless access points, the data comprising, for each of the one or more wireless access points, characteristics comprising operational characteristics of the one or more wireless access points, communication characteristics for communications between the wireless access point and user computing devices, and previous data throughput statistics for the one or more wireless access points; determining, by the one or more computing devices, a maximum data throughput capacity for each of the one or more wireless access points under operating conditions reflecting each of the characteristics and combinations thereof; receiving, by the one or more computing devices, current operational characteristics and current communication characteristics for a particular wireless access point for which a data throughput prediction is desired; comparing, by the one or more computing devices, the current operational characteristics and the current communication characteristics of the particular wireless access point to the received data from the one or more wireless access points to identify a second particular wireless access point having similar operational characteristics and communication characteristics to the current operational characteristics and the current communication characteristics of the particular wireless access point; determining, by the one or more computing devices, a predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point based on the determined maximum data throughput capacity of the second particular wireless access point; and based on the predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point, adjusting, by the one or more computing devices, a power input to the particular wireless access point.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the steps of determining, comparing, and determining are performed by a machine learning algorithm.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the machine learning algorithm is one of a generalized linear model or gradient boosting.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the operational characteristics comprises, for each of the wireless access points, one or more of a positioning of the wireless access point and a communication technology used by the wireless access point to communicate with the user computing devices.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the communication characteristics comprises one or more of a number of user computing devices attempting simultaneous communication with the wireless access point, an amount of interference with communication signals received or communicated by the wireless access point, and an amount of environmental electronic noise affecting the wireless access point.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the data throughput statistics for the wireless access point comprises a log of an amount of data the wireless access point is communicating over a configured period of time.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the maximum data throughput capacity for each of the one or more wireless access points is based on capturing a highest amount of data throughput for each of the one or more wireless access points.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein the highest amount of data throughput for the one or more wireless access points is determined to be a top one percent of the data throughput when operating with a particular set of characteristics.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising communicating, by the one or more computing devices, the predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point to a wireless computing device associated with the particular wireless access point.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the one or more computing devices, that additional wireless access points are required to achieve a desired throughput capacity for the one or more wireless access points.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the one or more computing devices, an alternate communication method for the particular wireless access to use to communicate when the estimated maximum data throughput capacity is determined to be less than a configured minimum.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the particular wireless access point is separate from the one or more wireless access points from the first receiving step.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the comparing step identifies only a second particular wireless access point having an exact match for one or more operational characteristics and communication characteristics to the current operational characteristics and the current communication characteristics of the particular wireless access point.
14. A computer program product, comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable storage device having computer-executable program instructions embodied thereon that when executed by a computer cause the computer to estimate data throughput capacities, the computer-executable program instructions comprising instructions to: receive data from one or more wireless access points, the data comprising, for each of the one or more wireless access points, characteristics comprising operational characteristics of the one or more wireless access points, communication characteristics for communications between the wireless access point and user computing devices, and previous data throughput statistics for the one or more wireless access points; receive current operational characteristics and current communication characteristics for a particular wireless access point for which a data throughput prediction is desired; create a model of a wireless access point having similar characteristics to the particular wireless access point; estimate a data throughput capacity of the model wireless access point based on an analysis of data throughputs of one or more other wireless access points; determine a predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point based on the estimated data throughput capacity of the model wireless access point; and based on the predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point, adjust a power input to the particular wireless access point.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the model of the wireless access point is based on a selection of the characteristics received from the one or more wireless access points.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the steps of creating, estimating, and determining are performed by a machine learning algorithm.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the machine learning algorithm is one of a generalized linear model or gradient boosting.
18. A system, comprising: a storage device; and a processor communicatively coupled to the storage device, wherein the processor executes application code instructions that are stored in the storage device to cause the system to: receive data from one or more wireless access points, the data comprising, for each of the one or more wireless access points, characteristics comprising operational characteristics of the one or more wireless access points, communication characteristics for communications between the wireless access point and user computing devices, and previous data throughput statistics for the one or more wireless access points; determine a maximum data throughput capacity for each of the one or more wireless access points under operating conditions reflecting each of the characteristics and combinations thereof; compare current operational characteristics and current communication characteristics of a particular wireless access point to the received data from the one or more wireless access points to identify a second particular wireless access point having similar operational characteristics and communication characteristics to the current operational characteristics and the current communication characteristics of the particular wireless access point; determine a predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point based on the determined maximum data throughput capacity of the second particular wireless access point; based on the predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point, adjust a power input to the particular wireless access point.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the data throughput statistics for the wireless access point comprises a log of an amount of data the wireless access point is communicating over a configured period of time.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the power input is increased to expand the predicted data throughput capacity of the particular wireless access point.
</claims>
</document>
