<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K31/498,A61K45/06,A61P35/00,C12Q1/6837,C12Q1/6886,G01N33/50,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
Oncology Venture ApS
</assignee>

<inventors>
JENSEN, PETER BUHL
KNUDSEN, STEEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71105475
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods for predicting drug responsiveness in cancer patients
</title>

<abstract>
The present invention features methods, devices, and kits for detecting gene expression in a patient with a cancer or determining responsive of a patient with a cancer to a treatment, such as treatment with dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof. The invention further includes methods of treating a patient with a cancer by administering a treatment, e.g., treatment with dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof, in particular when the patient is determined to be responsive to the treatment based on the expression of the biomarkers described herein.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of treating a human subject diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, or endometrial cancer comprising administering dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject, wherein the subject has been determined to be responsive to dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof according to a method comprising: (a) contacting a tumor sample from the subject comprising nucleic acid molecules with a device comprising: (i) single-stranded nucleic acid molecules capable of specifically hybridizing with the nucleotides of DDIT4; and (ii) single-stranded nucleic acid molecules capable of specifically hybridizing with the nucleotides of SCAMP3; (b) detecting a level of expression of DDIT4 and SCAMP3; and (c) calculating a difference score for the subject by subtracting the level of expression of SCAMP3 from the level of expression of DDIT4, wherein the difference score is above a cutoff value of the 50th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising administering one or more cancer therapies other than dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject, wherein, optionally, the one or more cancer therapies comprises surgery, radiation, or a therapeutic agent.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the therapeutic agent is selected from the group consisting of a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor, an immune checkpoint inhibitor, a cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor, bortezomib, carfilzomib, thalidomide, lenalidomide, pomalidomide, prednisone, dexamethasone, cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, melphalan, capecitabine, tegafur, irinotecan, oxaliplatin, cetuximab, leucovorin, SN-38, everolimus, temsirolimus, bleomycin, lomustine, depsipeptide, carboplatin, erlotinib, gemcitabine, mitoxantrone, cisplatin, busulfan, epirubicin, arsenic trioxide, bendamustine, fulvestrant, teniposide, adriamycin, decitabine, estramustine, etoposide, azaguanine, aclarubicin, mitoxantrone, mitomycin, paclitaxel, taxotere, Irofulven, 5-FU, ara-c, methylprednisolone, methotrexate, methyl-gag, belinostat, carboplatin, idarubicin, IL4-PR38, valproic acid, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA), cytoxan, topotecan, suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid, leukeran, fludarabine, vinblastine, dacarbazine, hydroxyurea, tegafur, daunorubicin, mechlorethamine, streptozocin, carmustine, mercaptopurine, dactinomycin, tretinoin, ifosfamide, tamoxifen, floxuridine, thioguanine, PSC 833, herceptin, bevacizumab, celecoxib, iressa, anastrozole, letrozole, and rituximab.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the immune checkpoint inhibitor is a PD1 inhibitor, a PD-L1 inhibitor, or a CTLA-4 inhibitor.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining an expression level of one or more biomarkers of responsiveness to an immune checkpoint inhibitor in a tumor sample from the subject, wherein the one or more biomarkers of responsiveness to an immune checkpoint inhibitor is selected from the group consisting of PD-1, PD-L1, CTLA-4, and FAS receptor.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises administering the immune checkpoint inhibitor to the subject.
7. The method of claim 1, comprising: (a) administering dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject two or more times; (b) administering dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject one or more times daily, weekly, every two weeks, every three weeks, or monthly; (c) administering dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject once daily for five days; or (d) administering dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject in an ON: OFF schedule.
8. The method of claim 7, comprising administering dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject in a five days ON: two days OFF schedule.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein dovitinib or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof is administered to the subject: (a) at a dose of about 5-5000 mg; (b) at a dose of about 10 mg, 50 mg, 200 mg, or 500 mg; (c) at a dose of about 50-800 mg; (d) at a dose of about 500 mg once daily; (e) at a dose of about 500 mg once daily for five days; (f) at a dose of about 500 mg once daily in a five days ON: two days OFF schedule.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the device is a microarray, wherein, optionally, the microarray is a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)-based platform.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein: (a) the device comprises at least two, at least three, at least four, at least five, at least six, at least seven, at least eight, at least nine, at least ten, or more single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of (i) and/or (ii); (b) the one or more single-stranded nucleic acid molecules of the device have a length in the range of 10-100 nucleotides; (c) the level of expression of DDIT4 and/or SCAMP3 is determined by microarray analysis or nucleic acid amplification methods.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein: (i) the level of expression of DDIT4 is determined by detecting the level of mRNA transcribed from a gene encoding DDIT4; and/or (ii) the level of expression of SCAMP3 is determined by detecting the level of mRNA transcribed from a gene encoding SCAMP3.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the subject has recurrence of the renal cell carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, or endometrial cancer.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the cutoff value is at a 60th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the cutoff value is at a 70th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the cutoff value is at a 80th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the cutoff value is at a 90th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the breast cancer is estrogen receptor-positive (ERpos) breast cancer and/or metastatic breast cancer.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining responsiveness of the subject to dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof according to steps (a)-(c).
20. A method of treating a human subject diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma, gastrointestinal stromal tumor, breast cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma, or endometrial cancer comprising administering dovitinib or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof to the subject with a difference score determined from a tumor sample from the subject that is above a cutoff value of the 50th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject, wherein the difference score is the difference between a level of expression of SCAMP3 and a level of expression of DDIT4.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the cutoff value is at a 60th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the cutoff value is at a 70th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the cutoff value is at a 80th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
24. The method of claim 23, wherein the cutoff value is at a 90th percentile or greater of the difference score in a reference population with the same diagnosis as the subject.
</claims>
</document>
