<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B3/14,A01B49/02,A01B63/14,A01B76/00,A01B79/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CNH INDUSTRIAL CANADA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HENRY JAMES W
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68980344
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-time artificial intelligence control of agricultural work vehicle or implement based on observed outcomes
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for real-time, artificial intelligence control of an agricultural work vehicle and/or implement based on observed outcomes are provided. In particular, example aspects of the present subject matter are directed to systems and method that sense field conditions (also known as field "finish") both before and after adjustable ground-engaging tools encounter the soil and that update a site-specific control model that provides control settings based on the observed anterior and posterior conditions. Thus, a control system can obtain sensor data descriptive of upcoming field conditions and can perform predictive adjustment and control of tools based the upcoming field conditions. The system can then use additional sensors to observe the outcome of the employed control settings. Based on a comparison of the observed outcome to a target outcome, the system can adjust for the next encounter of similar field conditions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for intelligent control of one or both of an agricultural work vehicle or implement, comprising: one or more anterior sensor devices positioned to collect anterior sensor data in a forward direction relative to a path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through a field; one or more posterior sensor devices positioned to collect posterior sensor data in a rearward direction relative to the path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through the field; a computing system comprising one or more processors and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store: a site-specific control model that provides sets of output controls respectively for sets of input conditions; and instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, configure the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining, from the one or more anterior sensor devices, anterior sensor data that describes a portion of the field; determining an anterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the anterior sensor data; using the site-specific control model to obtain a first set of output controls based at least in part on the anterior set of conditions; controlling one or both of the agricultural work vehicle or implement according to the first set of output controls to cause a manipulation of the portion of the field; obtaining, from the one or more posterior sensor devices, posterior sensor data that describes the portion of the field after the manipulation of the portion of the field; determining a posterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the posterior sensor data; comparing the posterior set of conditions to a target set of conditions for the portion of the field; and updating the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field to form an updated version of the site-specific control model.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the one or more anterior sensor devices comprise an anterior imaging device positioned to have an anterior field of view in the forward direction relative to the path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through the field; and the one or more posterior sensor devices comprise a posterior imaging device positioned to have a posterior field of view in the rearward direction relative to the path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through the field.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: obtaining, from the one or more anterior sensor devices, second anterior sensor data that describes a second portion of the field; determining a second anterior set of conditions for the second portion of the field based at least in part on the second anterior sensor data; and using the updated version of the site-specific control model to obtain a second set of output controls based at least in part on the second anterior set of conditions.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the site-specific control model comprises a machine-learned model that is configured to receive data descriptive of sets of input conditions and to process the data to generate output controls.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the machine-learned model comprises an artificial neural network.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein updating the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field comprises re-training the machine-learned model based on a loss function that evaluates a difference between the posterior set of conditions and the target set of conditions.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the site-specific control model comprises a lookup table that includes a plurality of sets of possible input conditions respectively correlated with a plurality of sets of output controls.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein using the site-specific control model to obtain the first set of output controls based at least in part on the anterior set of conditions comprises: matching the anterior set of conditions to a closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input conditions; and obtaining the set of output controls correlated in the lookup table with the closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input conditions.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein matching the anterior set of conditions to the closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input conditions comprises performing a clustering algorithm to match the anterior set of conditions to the closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input conditions.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein updating the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field comprises updating the set of output controls correlated with the closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the anterior set of conditions and the posterior set of conditions are descriptive of one or more of the following conditions for the portion of the field: clod size; percent residue cover; soil roughness; weed population; presence of valleys or holes; untilled soil levelness; or compaction layer.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the first set of output controls are descriptive of controls for one or more of the following: downforce of one or more ground-engaging tools; penetration depth of the one or more ground-engaging tools; angle of the one or more ground-engaging tools; or speed of the agricultural work vehicle.
13. A computer-implemented method for control of one or both of an agricultural work vehicle or implement, the method comprising: obtaining, by a computing system comprising one or more computing devices and from one or more anterior sensor devices positioned to collect anterior sensor data in a forward direction relative to a path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through a field, anterior sensor data that describes a portion of the field; determining, by the computing system, an anterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the anterior sensor data; using, by the computing system, a site-specific control model to obtain a first set of output controls based at least in part on the anterior set of conditions; controlling, by the computing system, one or both of the agricultural work vehicle or implement according to the first set of output controls to manipulate the portion of the field; obtaining, by the computing system and from one or more posterior sensor devices positioned to collect posterior sensor data in a rearward direction relative to the path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through the field, posterior sensor data that describes the portion of the field; determining, by the computing system, a posterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the posterior sensor data; comparing, by the computing system, the posterior set of conditions to a target set of conditions for the portion of the field; and updating, by the computing system, the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field to form an updated version of the site-specific control model.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, further comprising: obtaining, by the computing system and from the one or more anterior sensor devices, third sensor data that describes a second portion of the field; determining, by the computing system, a second anterior set of conditions for the second portion of the field based at least in part on the third sensor data; and using, by the computing system, the updated version of the site-specific control model to obtain a second set of output controls based at least in part on the second anterior set of conditions.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the site-specific control model comprises a machine-learned model that is configured to receive data descriptive of sets of input conditions and to process the data to generate output controls.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the machine-learned model comprises an artificial neural network.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein updating, by the computing system, the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field comprises re-training, by the computing system, the machine-learned model based on a loss function that evaluates a difference between the posterior set of conditions and the target set of conditions.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein the site-specific control model comprises a lookup table that includes a plurality of sets of possible input conditions respectively correlated with a plurality of sets of output controls.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein using, by the computing system, the site-specific control model to obtain a first set of output controls based at least in part on the anterior set of conditions comprises: matching, by the computing system, the anterior set of conditions to a closest one of the plurality of sets of possible input conditions; and obtaining, by the computing system, the set of output controls correlated in the lookup table with the closest one of the sets of possible input conditions.
20. An agricultural work vehicle or implement, comprising: one or more anterior sensors positioned to collect anterior sensor data in a forward direction relative to a path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through a field; one or more posterior sensors positioned to collect posterior sensor data in a rearward direction relative to the path of travel of the agricultural work vehicle or implement through the field; a computing system comprising one or more processors and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media that collectively store: a site-specific control model that provides sets of output controls for sets of input conditions; and instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, configure the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining, from the one or more anterior sensors, anterior sensor data that describes a portion of the field; determining an anterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the anterior sensor data; using the site-specific control model to obtain a first set of output controls based at least in part on the anterior set of conditions; controlling the agricultural work vehicle or implement according to the first set of output controls to manipulate the portion of the field; obtaining, from the one or more posterior sensors, posterior sensor data that describes the portion of the field; determining a posterior set of conditions for the portion of the field based at least in part on the posterior sensor data; comparing the posterior set of conditions to a target set of conditions for the portion of the field; and updating the site-specific control model based at least in part on the comparison of the posterior set of conditions to the target set of conditions for the portion of the field.
</claims>
</document>
