<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02N11/00,H04B1/3827,H04L29/08,H04W4/00,H04W4/70,H04W84/12,H04W88/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PENILLA, ALBERT S.
ZALEWSKI, GARY, M.
</assignee>

<inventors>
PENILLA, ALBERT S.
ZALEWSKI, GARY, M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61027098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wireless coded communication (WCC) devices with energy harvesting power functions for wireless communication
</title>

<abstract>
A wireless coded communication (WCC) device is provided. The WCC device includes a user manipulated control, and a power storage cell coupled to the user manipulated control. A wireless chip coupled to a memory and the control is provided. The wireless chip configured for harvesting RF energy of an emission source that is broadcast on a first frequency, decoding commands in the RF emission source, reading the state of the control and controllably synthesizing a packet on a second frequency representing a payload. The user manipulation of the control assists in a transformation of mechanical movement to produce additional energy which is harvested to fuel additional operations of the WCC device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising, a control configured to be associated with a state; a power storage cell; a wireless chip coupled to a memory, the power storage cell, and the control, the power storage cell is configured to receive energy that is harvested by the device from one or more radio frequency (RF) signals; the wireless chip configured to backscatter to transform onto a second frequency an emission signal that is broadcast on a first frequency, the emission signal being one or more of said RF signals, where the backscatter is performed to result in a synthesis of a packet on the second frequency representing a payload, wherein the control is configured to provide said state to the wireless chip, and said state is used in part in the synthesis of the payload, the device is configured to use said energy which is harvested to cause transmission of the payload over the second frequency to an end node.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein two or more emission signals provide for said synthesis of the payload and includes processing that occurs over two or more cycles using power from said two or more emission signals, and wherein said memory stores state of said processing between cycles, said transmission further using energy from said two or more cycles.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein said state is read using said harvested energy, and said control is related to a sensor, or is related to generating the payload, or is related to processing a request, or is related to responding to a request, or is related to an input, or is related to an output, or is related to processing a signal, or is related to a position, or is related to a voice command or is related a user manipulated input or is related to a switch or is related to an energy producing element or is related to a user manipulated energy producing element.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein said transform includes a shifting of the first frequency to the second frequency, and wherein the first frequency is associated with a first wireless communication protocol and the second frequency is associated with a second wireless communication protocol.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the emission signal is provided by a portable device.
6. The device of claim 1, further including a bistable e-ink screen.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the device includes one or more antennas, the antennas used for capturing said emission signal and for said transmission of the payload to the end node, wherein the end node or another device provides the emission signal that is broadcast on the first frequency.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein predefined functions are run on the wireless chip or in a separate logic unit and the predefined functions perform to produce output that includes the payload and wherein said state is read using said harvested energy, said control includes an energy producing element and where the control is also coupled to the power storage cell.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein, the control is associated with a user input, and said payload is generated responsive to the state of the control.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein the transform changes a first format of data using the first frequency to a second format of data using the second frequency, when the first and second formats use protocols selected from one of a WiFi protocol, or a Bluetooth protocol, or a ZigBee protocol, or an Ethernet Protocol.
11. The device of claim 1, wherein the device is configured to be implanted into a human body, or integrated into clothing, or integrated into a tool, or integrated into luggage, or integrated into a key fob, or associated with a retail shelf, or associated with a container, or associated with a monitoring device.
12. The device of claim 1, wherein the state relates to temperature, or weight, or pressure, or touch, or gesture, or a user, or an identity of a person, or an identification of an object, or an identification of a device, or voltage, or current, or resistance, or capacitance, or impedance, or a biological fluid, or blood, or glucose, or serum, or urine, or gastric fluid, or digestive juices, or tears, or saliva, or stool, or semen, or interstitial fluids derived from tumorous tissues, or a frequency, or a URL, or an IP address, or proximity, or a person, or an image, or a sound, or an electromagnetic field, or an access credential, or a password, a decryption key, or private or public key, or a certificate, or a nuance, or a value, or a threshold, or motion, or appliance state, or package state, or container state, or clothing state, or wearable device state, or moving objects, or stationary objects, or store shelf items, or a medicine delivery device, or a pick up sensing device, or a power tool.
13. A device, comprising, a control associated with a state; a power storage cell; a wireless chip coupled to a memory and the control; the wireless chip configured to backscatter to transform on a second frequency an emission signal that is broadcast on a first frequency, where the backscatter is performed to result in a generation of one or more packets on the second frequency representing a payload, wherein the emission signal is provided by one or more radio frequency (RF) signals received by the device and energy is harvested from said emission signal, wherein the control is used by at least part of an operation performed by device, the payload including data related to the state of the control, and the wireless chip transmits the payload to an end node using said harvested energy.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the operation performed by the device includes transmitting an image and the control is an output of a camera.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the operation performed by the device includes transmitting a signal representing a voice command, and the control is an output of a microphone.
16. The device of claim 13, further comprising, one or more flat antennas used by the device for receiving said RF signals and for transmitting the payload.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein generating the second frequency includes said transformation, and said transformation changes formats the second frequency to be a different wireless communication protocol from a wireless communication protocol associated with the first frequency.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein said wireless communication protocols include one of a WiFi protocol, or a Bluetooth protocol, or a ZigBee protocol, or an Ethernet Protocol.
19. The device of claim 16, wherein said end node is a device that generated the broadcast on the first frequency and receives the transmission of the payload.
20. The device of claim 13, wherein the control is part of or is associated with a sensor, and the sensor is configured to capture data representing said state.
21. The device of claim 13, wherein the device is configured to be implanted into a human body, or integrated into clothing, or integrated into a tool, or integrated into luggage, or integrated into a key fob, or associated with a retail shelf, or associated with a container, or associated with a monitoring device.
22. The device of claim 13, wherein the state relates to temperature, or weight, or pressure, or touch, or gesture, or a user, or an identity of a person, or an identification of an object, or an identification of a device, or voltage, or current, or resistance, or capacitance, or impedance, or a biological fluid, or blood, or glucose, or serum, or urine, or gastric fluid, or digestive juices, or tears, or saliva, or stool, or semen, or interstitial fluids derived from tumorous tissues, or a frequency, or a URL, or an IP address, or proximity, or a person, or an image, or a sound, or an electromagnetic field, or an access credential, or a password, a decryption key, or private or public key, or a certificate, or a nuance, or a value, or a threshold, or motion, or appliance state, or package state, or container state, or clothing state, or wearable device state, or moving objects, or stationary objects, or store shelf items, or a medicine delivery device, or a pick up sensing device, or a power tool.
</claims>
</document>
