<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/32,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SONY CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CANDELORE, BRANT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72334805
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Delivery of notifications for feedback over visual quality of images
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic apparatus, method, and non-transitory computer-readable medium are provided for delivery of notifications for feedback over visual quality of images. The electronic apparatus determines, from a plurality of categories, a category of the image frame based on imaging information associated with the image frame or an object of interest. The electronic apparatus selects a set of scoring parameters for the image frame from a plurality of scoring parameters based on the determined category. The set of scoring parameters corresponds to a defined visual quality for the determined category. The electronic apparatus estimates score information for the set of scoring parameters based on deviation of a value of at least one scoring parameter of the selected set of scoring parameters from a set of threshold values. The electronic apparatus outputs a notification based on the score information. The notification corresponds to feedback on a visual quality of the image frame.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic apparatus, comprising: a memory configured to store a first image frame that comprises an object of interest; and circuitry configured to: determine, from a plurality of categories, a first category of the first image frame based on imaging information associated with at least one of the first image frame or the object of interest, wherein the plurality of categories corresponds to a set of capture modes, and the set of capture modes comprises a landscape mode, a panorama mode, a beautification mode, a self-portrait mode, a wide angle mode, a low light mode, an autofocus mode, and a High-Dynamic-Range (HDR) mode; select a set of scoring parameters for the first image frame from a plurality of scoring parameters based on the determined first category, wherein the set of scoring parameters corresponds to a set of threshold values associated with a defined visual quality for the determined first category; estimate score information for the set of scoring parameters based on a deviation of a value of at least one scoring parameter of the set of scoring parameters from a corresponding threshold value of the set of threshold values; and output a notification based on the estimated score information, wherein the notification corresponds to feedback on a first visual quality of the first image frame.
2. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of categories corresponds to a type of scene in a field-of-view (FOV) of an image sensor.
3. The electronic apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the type of scene comprises at least a landscape scene, an architectural scene, an aerial scene, a home interior scene, an outside scene, a portraiture, a sports scene, a street scene, a wildlife scene, and a macro scene.
4. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of scoring parameters comprises a first plurality of scoring parameters associated with the electronic apparatus, and the first plurality of scoring parameters comprises at least a focus value, an exposure value, a stability value, a shadow value, a zoom value, and an orientation value of the electronic apparatus at a time of capture of the first image frame.
5. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of scoring parameters comprises a second plurality of scoring parameters associated with the first image frame, and the second plurality of scoring parameters comprises at least a brightness value, a resolution value, a saturation value, a contrast value, a white balance value, an intensity value, a tone value, a grain value, and an aspect ratio of the first image frame.
6. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of scoring parameters comprises a third plurality of scoring parameters associated with the object of interest, and the third plurality of scoring parameters comprises at least a posture, a priority value, and a red eye value of the object of interest.
7. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to identify a state of eyes of the object of interest in the first image frame, the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the state of eyes of the object of interest, and the state of eyes of the object of interest corresponds to one of an open state, a partially open state, or a closed state.
8. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to identify a facial expression of the object of interest in the first image frame, and the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the facial expression of the object of interest.
9. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to compute an angle and an orientation of a face of the object of interest, and the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the angle and the orientation of the face of the object of interest.
10. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to estimate a visibility state of a face of the object of interest in the first image frame, the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the first visibility state of the face, and the visibility state corresponds to one of a partially visible state, a completely visible state, or a hidden state of the face.
11. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to estimate a visibility state of a body of the object of interest, the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the visibility state of the body, and the visibility state corresponds to one of a partially visible state, a completely visible state, or a hidden state of the body.
12. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to estimate an obstruction state of a region of interest which includes the object of interest in the first image frame, in the obstruction state, an obstructing object in the first image frame obstructs the region of interest, and the plurality of scoring parameters further comprises the obstruction state of the region of interest.
13. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to capture a second image frame such that a second visual quality of the second image frame matches the defined visual quality, and the second image frame is captured based on the estimated score information.
14. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the circuitry is further configured to: receive a user input; and activate, from a plurality of notification modes, a first notification mode that corresponds to a first frequency of the output of the notification, wherein the first notification mode is activated based on the received user input, and each notification mode of the plurality of notification modes corresponds to a different frequency of the output of the notification.
15. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the notification comprises an alert message to capture a second image frame.
16. The electronic apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the notification comprises a plurality of user instructions to assist a user to correct at least one issue associated with the deviation of the value of the at least one scoring parameter.
17. A method, comprising: in an electronic apparatus: determining, from a plurality of categories, a first category of an image frame based on imaging information associated with at least one of the image frame or an object of interest in the image frame, wherein the plurality of categories corresponds to a set of capture modes, and the set of capture modes comprises a landscape mode, a panorama mode, a beautification mode, a self-portrait mode, a wide angle mode, a low light mode, an autofocus mode, and a High-Dynamic-Range (HDR) mode; selecting a set of scoring parameters for the first image frame from a plurality of scoring parameters based on the determined first category, wherein the set of scoring parameters corresponds to a set of threshold values associated with a defined visual quality for the determined first category; estimating score information for the set of scoring parameters based on a deviation of a value of at least one scoring parameter of the set of scoring parameters from a corresponding threshold value of the set of threshold values; and outputting a notification based on the estimated score information, wherein the notification corresponds to feedback on a visual quality of the image frame.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon, computer implemented instructions that when executed by an electronic apparatus, causes the electronic apparatus to execute operations, the operations comprising: determining, from a plurality of categories, a first category of an image frame based on imaging information associated with at least one of the image frame or an object of interest in the image frame, wherein the plurality of categories corresponds to a set of capture modes, and the set of capture modes comprises a landscape mode, a panorama mode, a beautification mode, a self-portrait mode, a wide angle mode, a low light mode, an autofocus mode, and a High-Dynamic-Range (HDR) mode; selecting a set of scoring parameters for the first image frame from a plurality of scoring parameters based on the determined first category, wherein the set of scoring parameters corresponds to a set of threshold values associated with a defined visual quality for the determined first category; estimating score information for the set of scoring parameters based on a deviation of a value of at least one scoring parameter of the set of scoring parameters from a corresponding threshold value of the set of threshold values; and outputting a notification based on the estimated score information, wherein the notification corresponds to feedback on a visual quality of the image frame.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 18, wherein the plurality of scoring parameters comprises a first plurality of scoring parameters associated with the electronic apparatus, and the first plurality of scoring parameters comprises at least a focus value, an exposure value, a stability value, a shadow value, a zoom value, and an orientation value of the electronic apparatus at a time of capture of the image frame.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium according to claim 18, wherein the plurality of scoring parameters comprises a second plurality of scoring parameters associated with the image frame, and the second plurality of scoring parameters comprises at least a brightness value, a resolution value, a saturation value, a contrast value, a white balance value, an intensity value, a tone value, a grain value, and an aspect ratio of the image frame.
</claims>
</document>
