<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2006-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B8/08,G01S15/89,G01S7/52
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUEENS UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MORADI, MEHDI
MOUSAVI, PARVIN
SAUERBREI, ERIC
SIEMENS, ROBERT
ISOTALO, PHILLIP
ABOLMAESUMI, PURANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
38778056
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for improved ultrasonic detection
</title>

<abstract>
This invention relates to a method of analyzing an ultrasound signal. The method comprises obtaining a time series of sequential data frames associated with an ultrasound signal reflected from and/or backscattered from a fixed location of a material under investigation, each data frame comprising a plurality of samples of the ultrasound signal, and subjecting to an analysis a sequence of one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, or a sequence of at least one parameter derived from one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, wherein a result of the analysis is related to one or properties or characteristics of the material. In one embodiment the method may be used for detecting, diagnosing, and/or assessing cancer and/or abnormalities in biological tissue.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining one or more physical properties of a material, comprising: (I) obtaining a plurality of ultrasound data frames sequentially in time; wherein the plurality of ultrasound data frames is generated from an ultrasound signal received by one ultrasound transducer that is in one fixed relationship relative to the material and the ultrasound transducer is not subjected to intentional movement relative to the material; wherein each ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames comprises a plurality of samples of the ultrasound signal reflected from and/or backscattered from the material; (II) selecting, from one ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames, a first scalar value derived from one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, wherein each sample is a scalar value corresponding to an amplitude of the ultrasound signal at one position in the material; (III) selecting, from a second ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames, a second scalar value derived from one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, wherein each sample is a scalar value corresponding to an amplitude of the ultrasound signal at the same one position as each of the one or more samples in (II); (IV) repeating (III) to generate a time series of scalar values related to the ultrasound data frames obtained sequentially in time; (Va) inputting the time series of scalar values from (IV) or values derived from the time series of scalar values from (IV) to a classifier trained with data relating to known physical properties of one or more materials, wherein an output of the classifier is related to the time series of scalar values from (IV), or (Vb) subjecting the time series of scalar values from (IV) to a discrete Fourier transform or a discrete wavelet transform to extract a plurality of spectral parameters, and inputting at least a portion of the plurality of spectral parameters to a classifier trained with data relating to known physical properties of one or more materials; (VI) outputting a result of the classifier; wherein the result of the classifier is indicative of one or more physical properties of the material.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ultrasound signal is selected from an A-mode, B-mode, M-mode, or 3-D ultrasound signal.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the result of the classifier is indicative of the physical property of the material being normal or abnormal.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the result of the classifier is a probability map or a probability score.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the result of the classifier is indicative of a severity of an abnormality in the material.
6. The method of claim 3, wherein the result of the classifier describes presence of an abnormality in the material.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the material is biological tissue.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the biological tissue is human biological tissue.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the material is biological tissue and an abnormality in the biological tissue is cancer.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the cancer is associated with at least one of female genital tract (ovary, fallopian tube, uterus, cervix and vagina), male genital tract (prostate and testis), urinary tract (kidney, ureter and prostate gland), mediastinum and heart, gastrointestinal tract (small and large intestines, liver, pancreas, gallbladder and biliary system), breast, skin, nervous system, endocrine organs (thyroid gland, adrenal gland), head and neck region, lymph nodes, soft tissue, respiratory system (including lung), and combinations thereof.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the cancer is prostate cancer.
12. The method of claim 6, wherein the material is biological tissue and the abnormality in the biological tissue is selected from benign tumour, infection, abscess, necrosis, infarct, and combinations thereof.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing computer executable programmed instructions that, when executed, direct a computer to perform the following steps: (I) obtain a plurality of ultrasound data frames sequentially in time; wherein the plurality of ultrasound data frames is generated from an ultrasound signal received by one ultrasound transducer that is in one fixed relationship relative to the material and the ultrasound transducer is not subjected to intentional movement relative to a material; wherein each ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames comprises a plurality of samples of the ultrasound signal reflected from and/or backscattered from the material; (II) select, from one ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames, a first scalar value derived from one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, wherein each sample is a scalar value corresponding to an amplitude of the ultrasound signal at one position in the material; (III) select, from a second ultrasound data frame of the plurality of ultrasound data frames, a second scalar value derived from one or more samples of the ultrasound signal, wherein each sample is a scalar value corresponding to an amplitude of the ultrasound signal at the same one position as each of the one or more samples in (II); (IV) repeat (III) to generate a time series of scalar values related to the ultrasound data frames obtained sequentially in time; (Va) input the time series of scalar values from (IV) or values derived from the time series of scalar values from (IV) to a classifier trained with data relating to known physical properties of one or more materials, wherein an output of the classifier is related to the time series of scalar values from (IV), or (Vb) subject the time series of scalar values from (IV) to a discrete Fourier transform or a discrete wavelet transform to extract a plurality of spectral parameters, and input at least a portion of the plurality of spectral parameters to a classifier trained with data relating to known physical properties of one or more materials; (VI) output a result of the classifier; wherein the result of the classifier is indicative of one or more physical properties of the material.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the programmed instructions further direct the computer to: update the data relating to known physical properties of one or more materials by accepting further data relating to known physical properties of the material, or complementary data from a subsequent analysis conducted on the material.
15. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the result of the classifier is indicative of the physical property of the material being normal or abnormal.
16. A system for determining one or more physical properties of a material, comprising: a computer; an ultrasound transducer; and the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 13.
</claims>
</document>
