<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/22,G06Q90/00,G08B13/16,G08B13/196,G08B25/00,G08B25/01,G08B25/14,G08B5/38,H04N7/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DRIFT NET
</assignee>

<inventors>
COLES, AARON BRENT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69650693
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Security system for detecting hazardous events and occupants in a building
</title>

<abstract>
A gunshot detection/security system for detecting dangerous events in a school or other building includes one or several pods placed throughout the building premises. Each pod includes a camera, a thermal camera, and an acoustic sensor for detecting video, images, heat signatures, and sound within a detection area for the respective pod. The sensor data is then analyzed to identify a dangerous event in the building, and provide alerts regarding the dangerous event via the pods or client computing devices of students/occupants in the building, administrators, parents, and emergency responders. A server computing device generates digital maps of the interior and exterior of the building having location information regarding the occupants of the building and a danger zone indicating the epicenter for the dangerous event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for presenting an indoor map display of a building during a dangerous event, the method comprising: in response to a dangerous event being detected, receiving, at one or more processors in a client device, indoor map data for a building, including information indicative of a floor layout of the building indicating a plurality of areas within the building and exits from the building; presenting, by one or more processors, an indoor map display of the building, based on the indoor map data; and for each of the plurality of areas within the building: receiving, at the one or more processors, an indication of a number of occupants within the area determined via a multi-sensor device including an imaging camera and a thermal camera; and presenting, by the one or more processors, the indication of the number of occupants on a portion of the indoor map display corresponding to the area, the indication identifying locations of each of the occupants within the portion of the indoor map display corresponding to the area.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: for each of the plurality of areas, receiving, at the one or more processors, locations of each of the occupants within the area; and for each occupant, presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of the occupant at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the occupant.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein presenting an indication of the occupant includes presenting at the position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the occupant, by the one or more processors, identification information for the occupant.
4. The method of claim 2, further comprising: transmitting, by the one or more processors, a request to receive updated information for a particular occupant; and presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of the particular occupant at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the particular occupant, including highlighting the indication of the particular occupant relative to the indications of other occupants.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the dangerous event is an active shooter event, and further comprising: receiving, at the one or more processors, a location of an active shooter; and presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of the active shooter at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the active shooter.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: receiving, at the one or more processors, region data defining a danger zone within the building corresponding to locations within a predetermined threshold distance of the active shooter; and presenting on a corresponding portion of the indoor map display, by the one or more processors, an indication of the danger zone.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: identifying, by the one or more processors, a recommended entrance to the building that is more than a predetermined threshold distance from the danger zone; and presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of the recommended entrance for emergency responders to enter the building.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein presenting an indication of the danger zone includes highlighting, by the one or more processors, the danger zone.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processors, a location of a user of the client device; and presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of the user at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the user.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining, by the one or more processors, an exit from the building closest to the user; and presenting to the user in the indoor map display, by the one or more processors, an indication of the exit from the building.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: presenting, by the one or more processors, an indication of a route from the location of the user to the exit.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: presenting to the user, by the one or more processors, instructions based on the location of the user for handling the dangerous event.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, location data for one or more occupants in need of emergency assistance; and presenting at respective positions within the indoor map display corresponding to the location data, by the one or more processors, indications of the one or more occupants in need of emergency assistance.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein presenting an indoor map display of the building includes presenting, by one or more processors, the indoor map display including a plurality of floor layouts corresponding to a plurality of floors in the building; and further comprising: presenting, by the one or more processors, a user control for selecting one of the plurality of floor layouts to display; and in response to receiving a selection of the user control indicating a selected floor layout, adjusting a viewport of the indoor map display from an initial floor layout to the selected floor layout.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of areas include rooms and hallways.
16. A client device for presenting an indoor map display of a building during a dangerous event, the client device comprising: a user interface; one or more processors; and a non-transitory computer-readable memory coupled to the one or more processors and the user interface and storing instructions thereon that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the client device to: in response to a dangerous event being detected, receive indoor map data for a building, including information indicative of a floor layout of the building indicating a plurality of areas within the building and exits from the building; present an indoor map display of the building, based on the indoor map data; and for each of the plurality of areas within the building: receive an indication of a number of occupants within the area determined via a multi-sensor device including an imaging camera and a thermal camera; and present the indication of the number of occupants on a portion of the indoor map display corresponding to the area, the indication identifying locations of each of the occupants within the portion of the indoor map display corresponding to the area.
17. The client device of claim 16, wherein the instructions further cause the client device to: for each of the plurality of areas, receive locations of each of the occupants within the area; and for each occupant, present an indication of the occupant at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the occupant.
18. The client device of claim 17, wherein identification information for the occupant is presented at the position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the occupant.
19. The client device of claim 17, wherein the instructions further cause the client device to: transmit a request to receive updated information for a particular occupant; and present an indication of the particular occupant at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the particular occupant, including highlighting the indication of the particular occupant relative to the indications of other occupants.
20. The client device of claim 16, wherein the dangerous event is an active shooter event, and wherein the instructions further cause the client device to: receive a location of an active shooter; and present an indication of the active shooter at a position within the indoor map display corresponding to the location of the active shooter.
</claims>
</document>
