<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-24
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/02,H04B7/026,H04B7/0452,H04B7/0456,H04B7/06,H04W72/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GENGHISCOMM HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHATTIL, STEVE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70332461
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Distributed radio system
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, computer program products, and devices reduce computational processing performed by at least one computer processor that computes an eigensystem from a first data set; computes updated eigenvalues that approximate an eigensystem of at least a second data set based on the eigensystem of the first data set; and evaluates a plurality of features in each of the first and at least second data sets using a cost function; wherein reducing the computational processing of the at least one computer processor is achieved by at least one of selecting the cost function to comprise fewer than the total number of eigenvalues and employing a coarse approximation of the eigenvalues to de-select at least one of the data sets. This is especially useful for learning and/or online processing in an artificial neural network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of antenna selection, comprising: performing a partial update to a first selection of antennas to produce a second selection of antennas; computing updated eigenvalues based on fewer than a total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the first selection, the updated eigenvalues corresponding to the second selection; computing a second Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) performance based on the updated eigenvalues; and based on a comparison between the second MIMO performance and a first MIMO performance corresponding to the first selection of antennas, performing at least one of MIMO transmission and MIMO reception from an antenna array that comprises a first set of antennas or the at least a second set of antennas; wherein computing the updated eigenvalues and computing the second MIMO performance are performed in an artificial neural network algorithm configured to learn patterns in signals received by sets of antennas that correlate with MIMO performance.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the partial update comprises at least one of adding an antenna to the first selection, deleting an antenna from the first selection, and employing a sliding window.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first selection of antennas comprises at least one of a Massive MIMO antenna array, a distributed antenna system, a Cooperative MIMO array, and at least one relay.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising computing up to the total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the first selection.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the updated eigenvalues approximate an eigensystem of a modified Hermitian matrix corresponding to the second selection based on knowledge of an eigensystem of a Hermitian matrix corresponding to the first selection.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of singular value decomposition and eigen-decomposition is used to compute the eigenvalues and the updated eigenvalues.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the eigenvalues are calculated from at least one of a data matrix, a channel matrix, and a covariance matrix.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the updated eigenvalues comprise a minimum eigenvalue and a maximum eigenvalue of the total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the second selection.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the MIMO performance comprises a condition number.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed via at least one of parallel processing and pipelined processing.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed using numerical computations with a selectable accuracy.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed using a spectrum-slicing algorithm to isolate eigenvalues to disjoint intervals and using Newton's method to search within at least one of the disjoint intervals.
13. An apparatus, comprising at least one processor, at least one memory in electronic communication with the at least one processor, and instructions stored in the at least one memory, the instructions executable by the at least one processor for: performing a partial update to a first selection of antennas to produce a second selection of antennas; computing updated eigenvalues based on fewer than a total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the first selection, the updated eigenvalues corresponding to the second selection; computing a second Multiple Input Multiple Output (MIMO) performance based on the updated eigenvalues; and based on a comparison between the second MIMO performance and a first MIMO performance corresponding to the first selection of antennas, performing at least one of MIMO transmission and MIMO reception from an antenna array that comprises a first set of antennas or the at least a second set of antennas; wherein computing the updated eigenvalues and computing the second MIMO performance are performed in an artificial neural network algorithm configured to learn patterns in signals received by sets of antennas that correlate with MIMO performance.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein performing the partial update comprises at least one of adding an antenna to the first selection, deleting an antenna from the first selection, and employing a sliding window.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the first selection of antennas comprises at least one of a Massive MIMO antenna array, a distributed antenna system, a Cooperative MIMO array, and at least one relay.
16. The apparatus of claim 13, further comprising instructions executable by the at least one processor for computing up to the total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the first selection.
17. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the updated eigenvalues approximate an eigensystem of a modified Hermitian matrix corresponding to the second selection based on knowledge of an eigensystem of a Hermitian matrix corresponding to the first selection.
18. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein at least one of singular value decomposition and eigen-decomposition is used to compute the eigenvalues and the updated eigenvalues.
19. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the eigenvalues are calculated from at least one of a data matrix, a channel matrix, and a covariance matrix.
20. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the updated eigenvalues comprise a minimum eigenvalue and a maximum eigenvalue of the total number of eigenvalues corresponding to the second selection.
21. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the MIMO performance comprises a condition number.
22. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed via at least one of parallel processing and pipelined processing.
23. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed using numerical computations with a selectable accuracy.
24. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein computing updated eigenvalues is performed using a spectrum-slicing algorithm to isolate eigenvalues to disjoint intervals and using Newton's method to search within at least one of the disjoint intervals.
25. A method performed by at least one computer processor, comprising: computing eigenvalues of an eigensystem of a first data set, the first data set comprising first radio signal measurements; computing updated eigenvalues that approximate an eigensystem of at least a second data set based on the eigensystem of the first data set, the at least second data set comprising at least second radio signal measurements; evaluating a plurality of features in each of the first and at least second data sets using a cost function; and reducing computational processing of the at least one computer processor by at least one of selecting the cost function to comprise fewer than a total number of eigenvalues in at least one eigensystem and employing a coarse approximation of eigenvalues to de-select at least one of the first and at least second data sets.
26. The method of claim 25, further comprising calculating a gradient of the cost function to effect backpropagation.
27. The method of claim 25, further comprising determining which of the plurality of features correlates with a performance metric that is a function of eigenvalues.
28. The method of claim 25, further comprising grouping ones of the plurality of features that correspond with a similar performance metric, the performance metric being a function of eigenvalues.
29. The method of claim 25, further comprising detecting at least one of the plurality of features in an input data set, developing a hypothesis based on at least a detected one of the plurality of features, determining an error value between the hypothesis and a performance metric computed from eigenvalues of an eigensystem corresponding to the input data set.
30. The method of claim 25, further comprising developing a hypothesis based on at least one feature of an input data set, and updating the input data set based on the hypothesis.
31. The method of claim 30, wherein updating is performed via antenna selection.
</claims>
</document>
