<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/9535,G06F16/9538,G06F3/048,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484,G06F9/451,G06K9/42,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06K9/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HO, CHI-SAN
PRICE, MICAH
DUAN, YUE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70775054
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for generating graphical user interfaces
</title>

<abstract>
A system for generating graphical user interfaces. The system may include processors and storage devices storing instructions. The instructions may configure the one or more processors to perform operations including identifying a plurality of attributes from an image captured with a client device, identifying a plurality of first results based on the attributes, generating a first graphical user interface for display in the client device. The first graphical user interface may include a plurality of result icons corresponding to a subset of the first results having confidence scores above a threshold, a plurality of filter icons displaying options, and a search button. The operations may also include receiving a selection of at least one of the result icons or at least one of the filter icons, performing a search, based on the selection, and generating a second graphical user interface.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for generating graphical user interfaces, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more storage devices storing instructions that, when executed, configure the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: identifying a plurality of attributes from an image captured with a client device; identifying a plurality of first results based on the attributes, the first results being associated with confidence scores; generating a first graphical user interface for display in the client device, the first graphical user interface comprising: a plurality of result icons corresponding to a subset of the first results having confidence scores above a threshold, a plurality of filter icons displaying options, and a search button; receiving a selection of: at least one of the result icons, or at least one of the filter icons; performing a search, based on the selection, to identify second results when receiving an interaction with the search button; and generating a second graphical user interface for display in the client device, the second graphical user interface displaying the second results, wherein generating the first graphical user interface comprises: determining a preselected group of options based on the attributes; and preselecting filter icons in the first graphical user interface corresponding to the preselected group of options.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the image comprises an image of a vehicle; and the attributes comprise vehicle make and vehicle model.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the plurality of attributes further comprise vehicle trim.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the filter icons comprise: a body style icon; a color icon; and a feature icon.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the filter icons further comprise a slider selector for selecting a vehicle year.
6. The system of claim 2, wherein the result icons comprise thumbnail images of vehicles matching the attributes.
7. The system of claim 2, wherein performing the search comprises generating a search query for a server, the query comprising: the vehicle make; the vehicle model; an option selected in the filter icons; a client device location; and user account information associated with the client device.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the filter icons are configured to change appearance when selected or unselected.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein: generating the first graphical user interface comprises determining a group of available options based on the first results; and the filter icons correspond only to the group of available options.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is further configured to: when receiving the selection of the least one of the result icons: updating the group of available options by mapping, in a look-up table, the selected result icon with possible options in the look-up table; and modifying the first graphical user interface by eliminating a filter icon associated with options not present in the updated group of available options.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: when receiving the selection of the least one of the plurality of filter icons: updating the group of available options by correlating the selected at least one of the filter icons with other options in the look-up table; and modifying the first graphical user interface by eliminating a filter icon associated with options not present in the updated group of available options.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein: at least one of the filter icons is preselected based on the plurality of attributes; and the at least one preselected icon is displayed in a different color than other filter icons in the first graphical user interface.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the first results comprises: determining a location of the client device; determining a maximum distance for the first results based on a preference stored in the one or more storage devices; and eliminating a result, from the first results, associated with a location outside the maximum distance from the location of the client device.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein identifying the first results comprises: normalizing the image based on normalization rules; and determining the attributes from the normalized image by extracting the attributes from the normalized image using a pretrained convolution neural network.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein generating the first graphical user interface comprises: retrieving from a local memory a set of visualization preferences, the set of visualization preferences comprising a maximum number of results to be displayed in the first graphical user interface; and eliminating a first result, based on a corresponding confidence score, to match the maximum number.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein: the set of visualization preferences comprise a list of preferred filter icons; and the first graphical user interface displays filter icons that are in the list of preferred filter icons without displaying filter icons that are not in the list of preferred filter icons.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein: the subset of the first results is a first subset; the first graphical user interface further comprises a repopulate icon; and the operations further comprise: modifying the results icons by displaying a second subset of the first results when receiving a selection of the repopulate icon, the second subset being different from the first subset.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to operate a system for generating graphical user interfaces, the operations comprising: identifying a plurality of attributes from an image captured with a client device; identifying a plurality of first results based on the attributes, each of the first results being associated with a confidence score; generating a first graphical user interface for display in the client device, the first graphical user interface comprising: a plurality of result icons corresponding to a subset of the first results, the subset having confidence scores above a threshold; a plurality of filter icons displaying options; and at least one search button; receiving a selection of: at least one of the result icons; or at least one of the filter icons; performing a search, when receiving an interaction with the search button and based on the selection, to identify second results; and generating a second graphical user interface for display in the client device, the second graphical user interface displaying the second results, wherein: at least one of the filter icons is preselected based on the plurality of attributes; and the at least one preselected icon is displayed in a different color than other filter icons in the first graphical user interface.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein: determining a preselected group of options based on the attributes; and preselecting filter icons in the first graphical user interface corresponding to the preselected group of options.
20. A computer-implemented method for generating graphical user interfaces, the method comprising: identifying a plurality of attributes from an image captured with a client device; identifying a plurality of first results based on the attributes, each of the first results being associated with a confidence score; generating a first graphical user interface for display in the client device, based on determining a group of available options according to the first results, the first graphical user interface comprising: a plurality of result icons corresponding to a subset of the first results with a confidence score above a threshold; a plurality of filter icons displaying options corresponding to the group of available options; and at least one search button; receiving a selection of: at least one of the plurality of result icons; or at least one of the plurality of filter icons; performing, when receiving an interaction with the search button and based on the selection, a search to identify second results; generating a second graphical user interface for display in the client device, the second graphical user interface displaying the second results; and when receiving the selection of the least one of the result icons: updating the group of available options by mapping, in a look-up table, the selected result icon with possible options in the look-up table; and modifying the first graphical user interface by eliminating a filter icon associated with options not present in the updated group of available options.
</claims>
</document>
