<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-16
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B1/3827,H04B17/10,H04B7/00,H04W52/28,H04W52/36
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAGIC LEAP
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALY, ALY
SEYED, SHURHABEEL ZAMIR
SHEE, KOON KEONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62559376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining proximity of transmitter antennas of portable devices to a human body for limiting transmitter output power to meet specific absorption rate (SAR) requirements
</title>

<abstract>
A method for adjusting transmitter output power (PTX) comprises sensing, by a proximity sensor communicatively coupled to a transmitting device, whether an object is proximate to the transmitting device. The method further comprises analyzing an image from a camera to determine whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body, when the proximity sensor senses the object proximate to the transmitting device. Further, the method comprises adjusting the PTX of an antenna operatively coupled to the transmitting device to be less than or equal to a SAR threshold output power (PSARMAX), when it is determined that the transmitting device is proximate to the portion of the human body or when it cannot be determined whether the transmitting device is proximate to a portion of a human body.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: obtaining output data from at least one sensor configured to monitor one or more conditions of at least one radio frequency (RF) antenna of a computing device relative to an environment of the computing device, the at least one RF antenna being contained within or attached to a physical housing structure of the computing device; determining that output data obtained from the at least one sensor indicates that the computing device is positioned relative to one or more objects located in the environment of the computing device in a manner such that, under current operating parameters of the at least one RF antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds; in response to determining that output data obtained from the at least one sensor indicates that, under current operating parameters of the at least one RF antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds, obtaining one or more images from at least one camera, the at least one camera being contained within or attached to a user device that is physically displaced from the physical housing structure of the computing device; processing the one or more images; determining, based on processing the one or more images obtained from the at least one camera, whether one or more portions of the physical housing structure of the computing device are within a field of view (FOV) of the at least one camera; and in response to determining that one or more portions of the physical housing structure of the computing device are not within the FOV of the at least one camera, adjusting a maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: in response to determining that one or more portions of the physical housing structure of the computing device are within the FOV of the at least one camera, determining whether the one or more images serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human; and in response to determining that the one or more images do not serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human, adjusting the maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the one or more images do not serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human comprises: determining, based on processing the one or more images obtained from the at least one camera, that at least one of the one or more objects is identified as being a human body or portion thereof.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining that the one or more images do not serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human comprises: determining, based on processing the one or more images obtained from the at least one camera, that at least one of the one or more objects is unidentifiable or is not identified as being shown in the one or more images.
5. The method of claim 2 further comprising: in response to determining that the one or more images serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human, not adjusting the maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor comprises a proximity sensor configured to monitor a distance between the at least one antenna and physical objects located in the environment of the computing device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining that output data obtained from the at least one sensor indicates that the computing device is positioned relative to one or more objects located in the environment of the computing device in a manner such that, under current operating parameters of the at least one RF antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds comprises: evaluating the output data obtained from the at least one sensor against a look-up table; and determining, based on the evaluation results, that the computing device is positioned close enough to the one or more objects such that, under current operating parameters of the at least one RF antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the at least one sensor further comprises an orientation sensor configured to monitor an orientation of the computing device relative to the environment of the computing device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is contained within or attached to the physical housing structure of the computing device.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the user device comprises a head-mounted display.
11. A computing system comprising: a physical housing structure; at least one camera that is contained within or attached to a user device that is physically displaced from the physical housing structure; a plurality of electronic hardware components, at least a portion of which are contained within or attached to the physical housing structure, the plurality of electronic hardware components comprising: at least one antenna for transmitting radio frequency (RF) signals, the at least one antenna being contained within or attached to the physical housing structure; at least one sensor configured to monitor one or more conditions of the at least one antenna relative to an environment of the physical housing structure; at least one processor communicatively coupled to the at least one antenna, the at least one sensor, and the at least one camera, the at least one processor configured to: obtain output data from the at least one sensor; determine whether output data obtained from the at least one sensor indicates that the physical housing structure is positioned relative to one or more objects located in the environment of the physical housing structure in a manner such that, under current operating parameters of the at least one antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds; obtain one or more images from the at least one camera in response to determining that output data obtained from the at least one sensor indicates that, under current operating parameters of the at least one antenna, the one or more objects are subject to being exposed to levels of RF energy that exceed one or more thresholds; process the one or more images obtained from the at least one camera to determine whether one or more portions of the physical housing structure are within a field of view (FOV) of the at least one camera; adjust a maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals in response to determining that one or more portions of the physical housing structure are not within the FOV of the at least one camera.
12. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor does not belong to the portion of the plurality of electronic hardware components that are contained within or attached to the physical housing structure.
13. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the user device comprises a head-mounted display device.
14. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the user device comprises a handheld controller.
15. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the at least one sensor configured to monitor one or more conditions of the at least one antenna relative to the environment of the physical housing structure belongs to the portion of the plurality of electronic hardware components that are contained within or attached to the physical housing structure.
16. The computing system of claim 11, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: determine whether the one or more images serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human in response to determining that one or more portions of the physical housing structure are within the FOV of the at least one camera.
17. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: adjust the maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals in response to determining that the one or more images do not serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human.
18. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: not adjust the maximum level of power at which the at least one antenna is to transmit RF signals in response to determining that the one or more images serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human.
19. The computing system of claim 16, wherein the user device comprises a head-mounted display device, and wherein the at least one processor is further configured to: provide one or more alerts for output through the head-mounted display device in response to determining that the one or more images do not serve to confirm that none of the one or more objects are biologically human.
</claims>
</document>
