<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/318,H04B17/391,H04W64/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAPSTED CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
HUBERMAN, SEAN
KARON, JOSHUA
OHAB, HENRY L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71520086
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Deployment of trained neural network based RSS fingerprint dataset
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system of deploying a trained neural network-based RSS fingerprint dataset for mobile device indoor navigation and positioning. The method comprises: based on RSS parameters acquired from a plurality of mobile devices acquired at a set of positions within an indoor area, accumulating the RSS parameters as a trained neural network-based RSS fingerprint dataset in a fingerprint database of the indoor area; and when a density of points represented by the set of positions having accumulated RSS parameters exceeds a deployment threshold density, deploying the RSS fingerprint dataset within a fingerprint map for mobile device navigation of the indoor area, the fingerprint map encompassing the set of positions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, executed in a processor of a server computing device, of deploying received signal strength (RSS) fingerprint dataset, based on a trained neural network for mobile device indoor navigation, the method comprising: receiving RSS parameters from a plurality of mobile devices, the RSS parameters acquired for a set of positions within an indoor area, the RSS parameters being determined by the plurality of mobile devices using a respective RSS sensor device; training a neural network implemented in the processor at lease in part based on the RSS parameters, the neural network comprising a first neural network layer corresponding to a set of RSS input parameters for a wireless signal in accordance with a first wireless communication protocol, and at least a second neural network layer corresponding to the set of RSS input parameters for the wireless signal in accordance with at least a second wireless communication protocol, an RSS input parameter being based on a postulated RSS model; when a density of points represented by the set of positions having the RSS parameters exceeds a deployment threshold density, deploying the RSS fingerprint dataset within a fingerprint map, based on the trained neural network, the fingerprint map encompassing the set of positions; and navigating another mobile device in the indoor area using the deployed RSS fingerprint dataset within the fingerprint map.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein the density of points is expressed as a number of the set of positions per unit area for at least a portion of the indoor area.
3. The method of claim 1 further comprising: while the density of points is below the deployment threshold density, segmenting the indoor area into a first and an at least a second indoor portions.
4. The method of claim 3 wherein the first indoor portion comprises a more traveled portion of the indoor area, and the at least a second portion comprises a less traveled portion of the indoor area.
5. The method of claim 4 wherein the more traveled and less traveled portions are determined based on accumulated historical data of mobile device traversals within the indoor area.
6. The method of claim 4 further comprising: associating a first deployment threshold with the more traveled portion; associating a second deployment threshold with the less traveled portion; and deploying a RSS fingerprint set for mobile device navigation within the more traveled portion when the first deployment threshold density exceeds a density of points of the more traveled portion.
7. The method of claim 6 further comprising: deploying a RSS fingerprint set for mobile device navigation within the less traveled portion when the second deployment threshold density exceeds a density of points of the less traveled portion.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the trained neural network comprises a convolution neural network trained in accordance with: computing, at an output layer of the convolution neural network implemented by the processor, an error matrix based on comparing an initial matrix of weights associated with at least one of the first neural network layer and the at least second neural network layer representing the set of RSS input parameters to an RSS output feature in accordance with the RSS parameters received from the plurality of mobile devices; and recursively adjusting the initial weights matrix by backpropogation to diminish the error matrix until the RSS output feature matches the RSS parameters.
9. The method of claim 8 further comprising recursively adjusting the initial weights matrix as the error matrix is diminished until the RSS output feature matches the RSS acquired parameters within a threshold percentage value of the RSS acquired parameters.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein the backpropagation comprises a backward propagation of errors in accordance with the error matrix as computed at the output layer, the errors being distributed backwards throughout the weights of the at least one neural network layer.
11. A server computing system for deploying a received signal strength (RSS) fingerprint dataset, based on a trained neural network for mobile device indoor navigation, the server computing system comprising: a processor; and a memory including instructions executable in the processor to: receive RSS parameters from a plurality of mobile devices, the RSS parameters acquired for a set of positions within an indoor area, the RSS parameters being determined by the plurality of mobile devices using a respective RSS sensor device; train a neural network implemented in the processor at least in part based on the RSS parameters, the neural network comprising a first neural network layer corresponding to a set of RSS input parameters for a wireless signal in accordance with a first wireless communication protocol, and at least a second neural network layer corresponding to the set of RSS input parameters for the wireless signal in accordance with at least a second wireless communication protocol, an RSS input parameter being based on a postulated RSS model; when a density of points represented by the set of positions having the RSS parameters exceeds a deployment threshold density, deploy the RSS fingerprint dataset within a fingerprint map, based on the trained neural network, the fingerprint map encompassing the set of positions; and navigate another mobile device in the indoor area using the deployed RSS fingerprint dataset within the fingerprint map.
12. The system of claim 11 wherein the density of points is expressed as a number of the set of positions per unit area for at least a portion of the indoor area.
13. The system of claim 11 further comprising instructions executable in the processor to: while the density of points is below the deployment threshold density, segment the indoor area into a first and an at least a second indoor portions.
14. The system of claim 13 wherein the first indoor portion comprises a more traveled portion of the indoor area, and the at least a second portion comprises a less traveled portion of the indoor area.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the more traveled and less traveled portions are determined based on accumulated historical data of mobile device traversals within the indoor area.
16. The system of claim 14 further comprising instructions executable in the processor to: associate a first deployment threshold with the more traveled portion; associate a second deployment threshold with the less traveled portion; and deploy a RSS fingerprint set for mobile device navigation within the more traveled portion when the first deployment threshold density exceeds a density of points of the more traveled portion.
17. The system of claim 16 further comprising instructions executable in the processor to: deploy a RSS fingerprint set for mobile device navigation within the less traveled portion when the second deployment threshold density exceeds a density of points of the less traveled portion.
18. The system of claim 11 wherein the trained neural network comprises a convolution neural network trained in accordance with instructions executable in the processor to: compute, at an output layer of the convolution neural network implemented by the processor, an error matrix based on comparing an initial matrix of weights associated with the at least one of the first neural network layer and the at least second neural network layer representing the set of RSS input parameters to an RSS output feature in accordance with the RSS parameters received from the plurality of mobile devices; and recursively adjust the initial weights matrix by backpropogation to diminish the error matrix until the RSS output feature matches the RSS acquired parameters.
19. The system of claim 18 further comprising instructions executable in the processor to recursively adjust the initial weights matrix as the error matrix is diminished until the RSS output feature matches the RSS acquired parameters within a threshold percentage value of the RSS acquired parameters.
20. The system of claim 18 wherein the backpropagation comprises a backward propagation of errors in accordance with the error matrix as computed at the output layer, the errors being distributed backwards throughout the weights of the at least one neural network layer.
</claims>
</document>
