<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/26,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/28
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
Ji, Youngmin
KANG, Youngshin
Lee, Yulhee
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73464376
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer-implemented systems and methods for centralized logistics monitoring
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed embodiments provide systems and methods related to monitoring logistics. A method for monitoring logistics comprises capturing attendance data and timekeeping data for a first plurality of workers from a first management system, data identifying work performed by a second plurality of workers, the data comprising a location of performed work, an associated scan event, or clock-in information associated with each of a second plurality of workers, from a second management system, and work data related to a third plurality of workers from a third management system. The method further comprises consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data, receiving a request from a user device, for a visualization including analysis of the consolidated data, and providing a visualization to the user device, wherein the visualization is generated by analyzing the consolidated data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for monitoring logistics comprising: a memory storing instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions for: capturing, from a first management system, attendance data and timekeeping data for a first plurality of workers; capturing, from a second management system, data identifying work performed by a second plurality of workers, the data comprising: a location of performed work, an associated scan event, or clock-in information associated with each of a second plurality of workers; capturing, from a third management system, work data related to a third plurality of workers; receiving a first request for monitoring logistics from a user device based on a specific criteria, wherein the specific criteria is an amount of use of each search; determining the amount of use of each search by the user device using a processor that tracks how much memory has been allocated to each search associated with a parameter over a predetermined time; automatically selecting the most used parameter to a first parameter based on the determined amount of use; consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data according to the selected first parameter; and providing a visualization to the user device, wherein the visualization is generated by analyzing the consolidated data.
2. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise notifying a mobile device associated with a manager an underperforming worker based on the consolidated data.
3. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the performed work comprises unloading an inbound item from a delivery truck, picking an inbound item, stowing an item, reassigning an item, or packing at least one delivery parcel inside a fulfillment center.
4. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the location of performed work is determined by receiving a location sent from an automated or handheld barcode scanner, a RFID reader, high-speed camera, or a device with communicating capacity.
5. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein providing the visualization further comprises providing an activity history associated with a worker by analyzing the consolidated data.
6. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: capturing, from a fourth management system, order data and fulfillment center data; receiving a second request from a user device, a second request including a second parameter identifying one or more categories for the one or more workers; consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data according to the second parameter; reassigning workers on underperforming tasks including packing and shipment, each underperforming task being determined by reassignment data, wherein the reassignment data is generated from the consolidated data.
7. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein providing the visualization further comprises: determining abnormal attendance status by combining an identity of a worker associated with the work data and an associated scan event from the consolidated data; and providing the identity of the worker with abnormal attendance status.
8. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein providing the visualization further comprises providing a performance of each fulfillment center, wherein the performance is determined by combining a number of scan events, attendance data, and timekeeping data from the consolidated data, and defined by how many units were handled by workers associated with each fulfillment center over an hour.
9. The computer-implemented system of claim 8, wherein the provided performance of each fulfillment center presents a trend in the performance over time.
10. The computer-implemented system of claim 1, wherein providing the visualization is performed in real-time.
11. A computer-implemented method for monitoring logistics comprising: capturing, from a first management system, attendance data and timekeeping data for a first plurality of workers; capturing, from a second management system, data identifying work performed by a second plurality of workers, the data comprising: a location of performed work, an associated scan event, or clock-in information associated with each of a second plurality of workers; capturing, from a third management system, work data related to a third plurality of workers; receiving a first request for monitoring logistics from a user device based on specific criteria, wherein the specific criteria is an amount of use of each search; determining the amount of use of each search by the user device using a processor that tracks how much memory has been allocated to each search associated with a parameter over a predetermined time; automatically selecting the most used parameter to a first parameter based on the determined amount of use; consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data according to the selected first parameter; and providing a visualization to the user device, wherein the visualization is generated by analyzing the consolidated data.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise notifying a mobile device associated with a manager an underperforming worker based on the consolidated data.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the performed work comprises unloading an inbound item from a delivery truck, picking an inbound item, stowing an item, reassigning an item, or packing at least one delivery parcel inside a fulfillment center.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the location of performed work is determined by receiving a location sent from an automated or handheld barcode scanner, a RFID reader, high-speed camera, or a device with communicating capacity.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the visualization further comprises providing an activity history associated with a worker by analyzing the consolidated data.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise: capturing, from a fourth management system, order data and shipment data for a first plurality of workers; receiving a second request from a user device, a second request including a second parameter identifying one or more categories for the one or more workers; consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data according to the second parameter; and reassigning workers on underperforming tasks, each underperforming task being determined by reassignment data, wherein the reassignment data is generated from the consolidated data.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the visualization further comprises: determining abnormal attendance status by combining an identity of a worker associated with the work data and an associated scan event from the consolidated data; and providing the identity of the worker with abnormal attendance status.
18. The method system of claim 11, wherein providing the visualization further comprises providing a performance of each fulfillment center, wherein the performance is determined by combining a number of scan events, attendance data, and timekeeping data from the consolidated data, and defined by how many unite were handled by workers associated with each fulfillment center over an hour.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the provided performance of each fulfillment center presents a trend in the performance over time.
20. A computer-implemented system for monitoring logistics comprising: a memory storing instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the instructions for: capturing, from a first management system, attendance data and timekeeping data for a first plurality of workers; capturing, from a second management system, data identifying work performed by a second plurality of workers, the data comprising: a location of performed work, an associated scan event, or clock-in information associated with each of a second plurality of workers; capturing, from a third management system, work data related to a third plurality of workers; receiving a first request for monitoring logistics from a user device based on a specific criteria, wherein the specific criteria is an amount of use of each search; determining the amount of use of each search by the user device using a processor that tracks how much memory has been allocated to each search associated with a parameter over a predetermined time; automatically selecting the most used parameter to a first parameter based on the determined amount of use; consolidating the captured data on workers having corresponding data in one of the captured sets of data according to the selected first parameter; and providing a visualization to a user device, wherein the visualization includes a job distribution showing worker assignments on each allocated process based on the consolidated data.
</claims>
</document>
