<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/25,G06F16/901,G06F17/30,G06N5/02,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAGAVAN, HARISH
SHANMUGAM, SRINIVASAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59999442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Big data based predictive graph generation system
</title>

<abstract>
A big data analysis system may include a big data repository communicatively coupled to a data accumulation server and a predictive graph processing system. The data accumulation server may be configured to receive information from a plurality of data sources, the information corresponding to user interaction with one or more computing devices associated with an organization via a networked computing system, store the information received from the plurality of sources in the big data repository; and monitor the plurality of data sources to update the data stored in the big data repository. The predictive graph processing system is configured to receive information stored in the big data repository, transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model, and store the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A big data analysis system comprising: a big data repository service including a big data processing engine; a data accumulation service including a data accumulation server communicatively coupled via a network to a big data repository, wherein the data accumulation server includes a first processor and a first non-transitory memory device storing first computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the data accumulation server to: receive information from a plurality of data sources, the information corresponding to user interaction with one or more computing devices associated with an organization via a networked computing system, wherein the plurality of data sources comprise business computing systems, social media networks, and user devices; store the information received from the plurality of sources in the big data repository; monitor the plurality of data sources for at least one change in data at one or more of the plurality of data sources; and update, in response to the at least one change in the data at one or more of the plurality of data sources, the data stored in the big data repository into an updated data set; and a predictive graph processing system comprising a second processor and a second non-transitory memory device storing second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to: receive information stored in the big data repository; transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model; predict, based on an indication that the data stored in the big data repository has changed, at least a first relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set using the predictive model, wherein the first relationship between the at least two objects of the updated data set comprises a semantic relationship; store the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository including the first relationship; and cause display, at a display device based on a visualization request, the predictive graph data set via a visualization including a visual indication of the predicted first relationship between the at least two objects of the updated data set.
2. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the first computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the data accumulation server to update the data stored in the big data repository in near real time.
3. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the first computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the data accumulation server to update the data stored in the big data repository in response to a data change.
4. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the first computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the first processor, cause the data accumulation server to update the data stored in the big data repository on a periodic basis.
5. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to select one of a static predictive model and a dynamic predictive model.
6. The big data analysis system of claim 5, wherein the static predictive model comprises a Big Table format comprising a plurality of inputs, a plurality of outputs and organization metrics data.
7. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the predictive model comprises a regression model.
8. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the predictive model comprises a machine learning algorithm.
9. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on the predictive model in near real time.
10. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to generate a predictive graph visualization in response to a request received at the predictive graph processing system.
11. The big data analysis system of claim 10, wherein the second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user.
12. The big data analysis system of claim 1, wherein the second computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the second processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to: store, in a model repository, a first predictive model in a tabular representation, wherein input data received during processing result in a first predictive output corresponding to a static model; store, in the model repository, a second predictive model expressed in a form of a predictive function, wherein function input parameters, processed via the predictive function, result in a second predictive output corresponding to a dynamic predictive model; and generate, based on a specified one of the first predictive model or the second predictive model, the predictive data set on a periodic basis.
13. A method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories, the method comprising: receiving, by a data accumulation service, information from a plurality of data sources, the information corresponding to user interaction with one or more computing devices associated with an organization via at least one of an Internet connection and a networked computing system; storing, by the data accumulation service, the information received from the plurality of sources in a big data repository, wherein the plurality of sources comprises business computing systems and user devices; monitoring, at predetermined intervals by the data accumulation service, the plurality of data sources for at least one change in data at a data source of the plurality of data sources; updating, in response to the at least one change in data at the data source of the plurality of data sources, the data stored in the big data repository into an updated data set; receiving, by a predictive graph processing system, the information stored in the big data repository; transforming, by the predictive graph processing system, the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model; predict, based on the update to the data stored in the big data repository, at least a first semantic relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set using the predictive model; storing, the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository for use in generating a predictive graph for presentation via a user device; and causing display, at a display device based on a visualization request, the predictive graph data set via a visual indication including a visual indication of a predicted relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set including the first semantic relationship.
14. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, comprising: updating, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in near real time.
15. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, comprising: updating, by the data accumulation service, the information stored in the big data repository in response to a data change.
16. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, comprising: selecting, by the predictive graph processing system, one of a static predictive model and a dynamic predictive model.
17. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, wherein a static predictive model comprises a big table format comprising a plurality of inputs, a plurality of outputs and organization metrics data.
18. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a regression model or a machine learning algorithm.
19. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, comprising: transforming, by the predictive graph processing system, the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on the predictive model in near real time.
20. The method for generating predictive graphs utilizing big data repositories of claim 13, comprising: generating, by the predictive graph processing system, a predictive graph visualization for presentation using the user device in response to a request received at the predictive graph processing system.
21. A predictive graph processing system, comprising: a communication interface communicatively coupled to an organization network; at least one processor; and a non-transitory memory device storing computer-readable instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the predictive graph processing system to: receive, via the communication interface, information stored in a big data repository, wherein the information is stored in the big data repository by a data accumulation service and updated in near real time; update, the data stored in the big data repository into an updated data set based on at least one change in data identified at a data source of a plurality of data sources, wherein the plurality of data sources comprises a social media network; transform the information received from the big data repository into a predictive graph data set based on a predictive model, wherein the predictive model comprises one of a static model or a dynamic model; predict, based on the update to the data stored in the big data repository, at least a first semantic relationship between at least two objects of the updated data set using the predictive model; store the predictive graph data set to a visualization data repository, wherein the predictive graph data set comprises a vertices table and an edge table and wherein each edge stored in edge table represents a semantic relationship between two vertices; generate a predictive graph visualization for presentation at a user device in response to a request received at the predictive graph processing system; and communicate the predictive graph visualization to a display device for display to a user; and receive, via an input device, an input from a user corresponding to user interaction with the predictive graph visualization comprising one of a desired action to be performed based on the predictive graph data set or an update to the predictive graph data set.
</claims>
</document>
