<document>

<filing_date>
2017-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/93,G06F17/27,G06F17/30,G06F7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARZORATI, MAURO
BAUGHMAN, AARON, K.
DIAMANTI, GARY F.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63669514
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Natural language processing keyword analysis
</title>

<abstract>
As disclosed herein, a method for generating a natural language processing query includes receiving one or more documents, wherein each document comprises a set of words, processing the one or more documents and the sets of words to provide a document content matrix V, a word feature matrix W, and a document feature matrix H, forecasting values for each entry of the word feature matrix and the document feature matrix over a selected time interval and a selected set of domains to provide a forecasted word feature matrix W′ and a forecasted document feature matrix H′, calculating a set of coefficients for forecasted document feature matrix H′ such that V=W′ *H′, determining a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients, and generating one or more queries according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method for generating natural language processing queries, the method comprising: receiving one or more documents, wherein each document comprises a set of words; processing the one or more documents and the sets of words to provide a document content matrix V corresponding to the one or more documents and the sets of words, a word feature matrix W corresponding to a set of selected features and the sets of words, and a document feature matrix H corresponding to the one or more documents and the set of selected features; forecasting values for each entry of the word feature matrix and the document feature matrix over a selected time interval and a selected set of domains to provide a forecasted word feature matrix W′ and a forecasted document feature matrix H′ by calculating predicted values for each entry according to trends displayed over time for each word feature and trends displayed in the selected set of domains; calculating a set of coefficients for forecasted document feature matrix H′ such that V=W′*H′; determining a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients; using a query template to generate one or more queries according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words, wherein a query template includes slots for one or more word types, and wherein each slot is filled according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words; and executing one or more searches according to the generated one or more queries to provide a set of search results.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving a set of feature information, wherein the set of feature information indicates one or more features, and wherein the indicated features are the features that are analyzed within each of the documents.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying a set of features for the sets of words comprises using the Newton-Raphson method to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein identifying a set of features for the sets of words comprises using stochastic gradient descent to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein determining a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients comprises calculating an average of the coefficients for each word, and sorting the words by average.
6. A computer program product for generating natural language processing queries, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising instructions to: receive one or more documents, wherein each document comprises a set of words; process the one or more documents and the sets of words to provide a document content matrix V corresponding to the one or more documents and the sets of words, a word feature matrix W corresponding to a set of selected features and the sets of words, and a document feature matrix H corresponding to the one or more documents and the set of selected features; forecast values for each entry of the word feature matrix and the document feature matrix over a selected time interval and a selected set of domains to provide a forecasted word feature matrix W′ and a forecasted document feature matrix H′ by calculating predicted values for each entry according to trends displayed over time for each word feature and trends displayed in the selected set of domains; calculate a set of coefficients for forecasted document feature matrix H′ such that V=W′*H′; determine a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients; using a query template to generate one or more queries according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words, wherein a query template includes slots for one or more word types, and wherein each slot is filled according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words; and executing one or more searches according to the generated one or more queries to provide a set of search results.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising instructions to receive a set of feature information, wherein the set of feature information indicates one or more features, and wherein the indicated features are the features that are analyzed within each of the documents.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein instructions to identify a set of features for the sets of words comprise instructions to use the Newton-Raphson method to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
9. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein instructions to identify a set of features for the sets of words comprise instructions to use stochastic gradient descent to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein instructions to determine a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients comprise instructions to calculate an average of the coefficients for each word, and sort the words by average.
11. A computer system for generating natural language processing queries, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer-readable storage media; program instructions stored on the computer-readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising instructions to: receive one or more documents, wherein each document comprises a set of words; process the one or more documents and the sets of words to provide a document content matrix V corresponding to the one or more documents and the sets of words, a word feature matrix W corresponding to a set of selected features and the sets of words, and a document feature matrix H corresponding to the one or more documents and the set of selected features; forecast values for each entry of the word feature matrix and the document feature matrix over a selected time interval and a selected set of domains to provide a forecasted word feature matrix W′ and a forecasted document feature matrix H′ by calculating predicted values for each entry according to trends displayed over time for each word feature and trends displayed in the selected set of domains; calculating a set of coefficients for forecasted document feature matrix H′ such that V=W′*H′; determining a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients; using a query template to generate one or more queries according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words, wherein a query template includes slots for one or more word types, and wherein each slot is filled according to the determined ranks for each word of the set of words; and executing one or more searches according to the generated one or more queries to provide a set of search results.
12. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising instructions to receive a set of feature information, wherein the set of feature information indicates one or more features, and wherein the indicated features are the features that are analyzed within each of the documents.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein instructions to identify a set of features for the sets of words comprise instructions to use the Newton-Raphson method to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
14. The computer system of claim 12, wherein instructions to identify a set of features for the sets of words comprise instructions to use stochastic gradient descent to calculate a feature value for each feature for the sets of words, wherein the feature value is the appropriate word feature matrix entry.
15. The computer system of claim 11, wherein instructions to determine a rank for each word of the sets of words according to the calculated set of coefficients comprise instructions to calculate an average of the coefficients for each word, and sort the words by average.
</claims>
</document>
