<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A63F1/00,A63F1/14,A63F1/18,A63F3/00,G06Q50/34,G07F17/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ANGEL PLAYING CARDS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHIGETA, YASUSHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57943118
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fraud detection system in a casino
</title>

<abstract>
A fraud detection system which detects fraud in a game of performing collection and redemption of chips in accordance with a win or lose result includes a camera which captures an image of chips contained in a chip tray of a dealer, an image analyzing apparatus which analyses the image captured by the camera to detect an amount of the chips contained in the chip tray, a card distribution device which determines a win or lose result of a game, and a control device which compares the win or lose result of the game and the amount of the chips contained in the chip tray before and after collection and redemption of the chips to detect fraud.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a camera; and a control device; wherein: the camera is configured to generate an image of a predetermined area of a gaming table that includes a plurality of betting areas; the control device is configured to: use a deep learning convolutional neural network to perform image recognition, that includes extracting features in the image based on color information or a pattern, to identify as processing targets representations in the image of chips stacked in one or more of the betting areas and captured by the camera from a horizontal direction or obliquely from above the chips; and identify, even when the chips stacked in the one or more of the betting areas include one or more chips that are at least partially concealed from view by using image recognition processing of the deep learning convolutional neural network based on the color information or pattern in the image, one or more types, one or more positions, and one or more numbers of the chips including the one or more chips that are at least partially concealed from view, the identification of at least one of (a) the one or more types, (b) the one or more positions, and (c) the one or more numbers being of the identified processing targets in the image; and the convolutional neural network used by the control device is a neural network that performed learning on learning images with labels at targets corresponding to the types of chips represented in the learning images.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to identify the types of the chips represented in the image by utilizing the deep learning convolutional neural network, extracting from the image and classifying candidate areas of the image, and obtaining, as a recognition result, a classified candidate area, from the candidate areas that have been classified, with a highest degree of certainty as a recognition result.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the concealment of the one or more chips that are at least partially concealed from view is due to a blind spot.
4. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to recognize a target including the chips from the image where the image includes representations of a plurality of stacks of the chips in a same one of the betting areas and to identify the types, positions, and numbers of the chips of the stacks.
5. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: one or more additional cameras, wherein: the cameras of the system are configured to capture the gaming table from different angles than each other; and the control device is configured to use a plurality of images captured by different ones of the cameras of the system, and is configured to accurately identify the types and positions of the chips even when an entirety of the chips is concealed due to a blind spot in the respective image of one or more of the cameras.
6. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to use the convolutional neural network to identify the one or more types, the one or more positions, and/or the one or more numbers from the image even where the chips represented in the image and whose type the control device is configured to determine include chips within or partly within a shadow.
7. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to use the convolutional neural network to identify the one or more types, the one or more positions, and/or the one or more numbers from the image even where the chips represented in the image and whose type the control device is configured to determine include chips that overlap each other in an offset manner within a chip stack.
8. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to use the convolutional neural network to identify the one or more types, the one or more positions, and the one or more numbers from the image even where the chips represented in the image and whose type the control device is configured to determine include chips that are placed in a plurality of areas with different distances and angles from the camera.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to identify the types, positions, and numbers of chips bet on any one of a plurality of gaming tables.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is further configured to identify a total sum of bills represented in the image as having been placed on the gaming table, compare the identified total sum of the bills to a total amount of the chips whose one or more types have been identified by the control device based on the image, and determine whether the total sum of the bills and the total amount of the chips correspond to each other.
11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the neural network is a multilayer neural network that includes an input layer, an output layer, and one or more intermediate network levels between the input and output layers.
12. The system according to claim 1, wherein the control device is configured to identify one or more positions and one or more numbers of the chips, and record and monitor a history of chip information wagered at each of a plurality of play positions based on the identified positions, types, and numbers of the chips.
13. The system according to claim 12, wherein the history of chip information is a respective total amount of the chips wagered at each of the play positions or a respective number of each of the types of the chips.
14. The system according to claim 12, wherein the control device is configured to specify with an identification number a respective player at each of the play positions.
15. The system according to claim 14, wherein the control device is configured to identify the respective players by extracting an image of a face of the player.
16. The system according to claim 12, wherein the control device is configured to compare information of the recorded history to statistical data, thereby identify occurrence of a strange situation, and output an alarm based on the identification of the strange information.
17. The system according to claim 12, wherein the control device is configured to identify presence of a predefined condition based on the recorded history, and output an alarm in response to the identified presence of the predefined condition.
18. The system according to claim 12, wherein: the plurality of betting areas include a player area, a banker area, a tie area, a player pair area, and a banker pair area usable in a baccarat game; and the control device is configured to identify the one or more types, the one or more positions, and the one or more numbers of the chips respectively for respective wagers in each of the player, banker, tie, player pair, and banker pair areas.
19. The system according to claim 18, wherein: a processor of the system is configured to determine a win/lose result of the baccarat game at the gaming table; and the control device is configured to record and monitor an amount of acquired chips and a history of the win/lose result at each of the play positions based on the identified positions, types, and numbers of the chips and the win/lose result of the processor.
20. The system according to claim 18, wherein the control device is configured to: monitor an amount of acquired chips and a recorded history of wins and losses; based on the monitored amount and recorded history, identify a player who obtained wins of at least a predetermined sum; and responsive to the identification of the player who obtains the wins of the at least the predetermined sum, output an alarm.
21. The system according to claim 1, further comprising: a chip tray for a dealer to hold the chips at the gaming table, wherein: a processor of the system is configured to determine a win/lose result of each of a plurality of games played at the gaming table; and the control device is configured to: identify one or more positions and one or more numbers of the chips of the image; perform the identification of the one or more type, one or more positions, and one or more numbers of the chips respectively for each of a plurality of wagers placed by respective players; identify a total amount of the chips in the chip tray based on respective IDs embedded in each of the chips in the chip tray; determine a correct total amount of the chips in the chip tray by modifying, by subtraction or addition, a prior chip amount in the chip tray prior to one of the games by a change amount that is based on (a) the positions, types, and numbers of chips of the wagers in the one of the games and (b) the win/lose result of the one of the games; and determine whether there is a difference between the determined correct total amount and the total amount identified based on the embedded IDs.
22. A system comprising: a camera; a dealer chip tray; a radio frequency identification (RFID) reader; and a control device; wherein: the camera is configured to generate an image of a predetermined area of a gaming table that includes a plurality of betting areas; the control device is configured to: use a deep learning convolutional neural network to perform image recognition, that includes extracting features in the image based on color information or a pattern, to identify as processing targets representations in the image of chips stacked in one or more of the betting areas and captured by the camera from a horizontal direction or obliquely from above the chips; and identify, based on the image, one or more types, one or more positions, and one or more numbers of the chips, the identification of at least one of (a) the one or more types, (b) the one or more positions, and (c) the one or more numbers being of the identified processing targets in the image and being based on the color information or the pattern; the convolutional neural network used by the control device is a neural network that performed learning on learning images with labels at targets corresponding to the types of chips represented in the learning images; the dealer chip tray is configured to hold the chips at the gaming table; a processor of the system is configured to determine a win/lose result of each of a plurality of games played at the gaming table; and the control device is configured to: identify one or more positions and one or more numbers of the chips of the image; perform the identification of the one or more type, one or more positions, and one or more numbers of the chips respectively for each of a plurality of wagers placed by respective players; identify a total amount of the chips in the chip tray, including even one or more of the chips in the chip tray that are at least partially concealed from view, based on signals from the RFID reader generated based on a reading of respective IDs embedded in respective interiors of the chips in the chip tray; determine a correct total amount of the chips in the chip tray by modifying, by subtraction or addition, a prior chip amount in the chip tray prior to one of the games by a change amount that is based on (a) the positions, types, and numbers of chips of the wagers in the one of the games and (b) the win/lose result of the one of the games; and determine whether there is a difference between the determined correct total amount and the total amount identified based on the embedded IDs.
</claims>
</document>
