<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/30,G06F16/31,G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/38,G06F16/903,G06F16/93
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
FREIER, NATHANIEL GEORGE
KOHLMEIER, BERNHARD S. J.
YANG, CHENGUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65995846
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Author-created digital agents
</title>

<abstract>
Author-created digital agents and content corpora for electronic documents are described. A content corpora service can include application programming interfaces such as for adding content to a corpus, attaching a corpus to a document, retrieving corpora associated with an author, and searching content of a corpus. An author-created digital agent can receive a request from a consumer of a document, determine corpora associated with the document, formulate a query based on the request, and search content associated with the corpora associated with the document.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. One or more computer-readable storage media having an author-created digital agent stored thereon, the author-created digital agent comprising instructions that when executed by a processing system, direct the processing system to at least: receive a request of a consumer of a document; from metadata of the document, identify at least one set of bounded and curated content to search in response to the request by determining an attached corpus of content, the attached corpus of content being attached to the document by a mapping between the document and the attached corpus of content, wherein the attached corpus of content is further mapped to at least one curated content of a corresponding set of bounded and curated content, the at least one curated content being content added to the attached corpus by an author of the document; formulate a query based on the request; search the at least one set of bounded and curated content mapped to the attached corpus using the query; receive results of the search of the at least one set of bounded and curated content; provide the results of the search to the consumer, wherein other content of the corresponding set of bounded and curated content in the attached corpus and associated with the document is not visible to the consumer of the document, the other content being other than the results of the search; determine whether the results include a result satisfying the request of the consumer; and if the results do not include the result satisfying the request of the consumer, prepare a message to an author of the document based on the query, and communicate the message to the author; and in response to receiving a response to the message from the author, add the response as added content to the attached corpus of content that is mapped to the document.
2. The media of claim 1, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: receive an indication to invoke the author-created digital agent; and surface an interface to the author-created digital agent, the interface receiving the request from the consumer.
3. The media of claim 1, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: generate the request of the consumer based on context of an interaction of the consumer, a lack of action by the consumer, device information, application information, or information of the consumer.
4. The media of claim 1, further comprising instructions that direct the processing system to: notify the consumer that the response to the message from the author is available.
5. The media of claim 1, wherein the instructions to identify the at least one set of bounded and curated content to search in response to the request by determining the attached corpus of content direct the processing system to: communicate with a corpus service to identify the attached corpus of content from a mapping resource storing a mapping data structure of the mapping between the document and the attached corpus of content and a further mapping of the at least one curated content and the attached corpus of content, wherein a communication to the corpus service comprises at least one identifier from the metadata of the document.
6. The media of claim 5, wherein the at least one identifier comprises a document identifier of the document.
7. The media of claim 5, wherein the at least one identifier comprises a corpus identifier.
8. The media of claim 5, wherein the at least one identifier comprises an author identifier of the author, wherein the mapping data structure further indicates a relationship between the author and the document, between the author and the attached corpus of content, or between the author and both the document and the attached corpus of content.
9. A method comprising: receiving a request of a consumer of a document; from metadata of the document, identifying at least one set of bounded and curated content to search in response to the request by determining an attached corpus of content, the attached corpus of content being attached to the document by a mapping between the document and the attached corpus of content, wherein the attached corpus of content is further mapped to at least one curated content of a corresponding set of bounded and curated content, the at least one curated content being content added to the attached corpus by an author of the document; formulating a query based on the request; searching the at least one set of bounded and curated content mapped to the attached corpus using the query; receiving results of the search of the at least one set of bounded and curated content; providing the results of the search to the consumer, wherein other content of the corresponding set of bounded and curated content in the attached corpus and associated with the document is not visible to the consumer of the document, the other content being other than the results of the search; determining whether the results include a result satisfying the request of the consumer; and if the results do not include the result satisfying the request of the consumer, preparing a message to an author of the document based on the query, and communicate the message to the author; and in response to receiving a response to the message from the author, adding the response as added content to the attached corpus of content that is mapped to the document.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving an indication to invoke an author-created digital agent performing the method; and surfacing an interface to the author-created digital agent, the interface receiving the request from the consumer.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: generating the request of the consumer based on context of an interaction of the consumer, a lack of action by the consumer, device information, application information, or information of the consumer.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: notifying the consumer that the response to the message from the author is available.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein identifying the at least one set of bounded and curated content to search in response to the request by determining the attached corpus of content comprises: communicating with a corpus service to identify the attached corpus of content from a mapping resource storing a mapping data structure of the mapping between the document and the attached corpus of content and a further mapping of the at least one curated content and the attached corpus of content, wherein a communication to the corpus service comprises at least one identifier from the metadata of the document.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one identifier comprises a document identifier of the document.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one identifier comprises a corpus identifier.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein the at least one identifier comprises an author identifier of the author, wherein the mapping data structure further indicates a relationship between the author and the document, between the author and the attached corpus of content, or between the author and both the document and the attached corpus of content.
17. A system comprising: a processing system; a storage system; and instructions for an author-created digital agent stored on the storage system that when executed by the processing system direct the system to at least: receive a request of a consumer of a document; from metadata of the document, identify at least one set of bounded and curated content to search in response to the request by determining an attached corpus of content, the attached corpus of content being attached to the document by a mapping between the document and the attached corpus of content, wherein the attached corpus of content is further mapped to at least one curated content of a corresponding set of bounded and curated content, the at least one curated content being content added to the attached corpus by an author of the document; formulate a query based on the request; search the at least one set of bounded and curated content mapped to the attached corpus using the query; receive results of the search of the at least one set of bounded and curated content; provide the results of the search to the consumer, wherein other content of the corresponding set of bounded and curated content in the attached corpus and associated with the document is not visible to the consumer of the document, the other content being other than the results of the search; determine whether the results include a result satisfying the request of the consumer; and if the results do not include the result satisfying the request of the consumer, prepare a message to an author of the document based on the query, and communicate the message to the author; and in response to receiving a response to the message from the author, add the response as added content to the attached corpus of content that is mapped to the document.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising instructions that direct the system to: receive an indication to invoke the author-created digital agent; and surface an interface to the author-created digital agent, the interface receiving the request from the consumer.
19. The system of claim 17, further comprising instructions that direct the system to: generate the request of the consumer based on context of an interaction of the consumer, a lack of action by the consumer, device information, application information, or information of the consumer.
20. The system of claim 17, further comprising instructions that direct the system to: notify the consumer that the response to the message from the author is available.
</claims>
</document>
