<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/46,H04W76/11,H04W76/15,H04W8/02,H04W8/18,H04W84/04,H04W84/12,H04W88/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUNDAVELLI, SRINATH
SRIVASTAVA, VIMAL
GANDHI, INDERMEET SINGH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74066845
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for indicating availability of same service on other radio access system
</title>

<abstract>
Methods are provided which indicate availability of the same service on a different access network. In these methods, the network controller generates an identifier for each of one or more services provided by a wireless local access network (WLAN). The identifier is associated with a particular service which is also provided by a private radio network. The network controller provides to an access point the identifier to be broadcast to one or more user devices of the WLAN to connect to the particular service via the private radio network. A mobility management entity receives a request from a user device to connect to the private network, where the request includes an identifier associated with a particular service provided to the user device in the WLAN and based on the identifier, the mobility management entity enables the particular service to be provided to the user device via the private radio network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: generating, by a network controller, an identifier for each of one or more services provided by a wireless local access network (WLAN), the identifier is a service token that maps a particular service, of the one or more services provided by the WLAN, with the same particular service provided by a private radio network; and providing, by the network controller, to an access point, the identifier to be broadcast to one or more user devices of the WLAN to connect to the particular service via the private radio network.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the private radio network is a private long term evolution (LTE) network, the WLAN is a Wi-Fi network, and the access point provides access to the Wi-Fi network to the one or more user devices.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing, by the network controller, the identifier such that the identifier is associated with a service set identifier (SSID) of the particular service provided in the WLAN and with an access point name (APN) identifying the particular service provided in the private radio network.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifier is further associated with at least one policy of the particular service.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifier is further associated with at least one data plane policy of the particular service provided in the WLAN and virtual network layer 2 and layer 3 identifiers.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the particular service is one or more of an Internet service or a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) service and wherein the WLAN is a Wi-Fi network and the private radio network is a Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) network.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the service token has a predetermined length and is associated with the particular service having a same set of one or more data plane policies in the WLAN and in the private radio network.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the same set of one or more data plane policies includes at least one of a security group tag associated with a user device from among the one or more user devices or a security group access control list.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifier is associated with a service set identifier (SSID) which identifies the particular service in the WLAN and is further associated with a public land mobile network (PLMN) network identifier (NID) access point name (APN) which identifies the particular service in the private radio network.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the private radio network is a Citizens Broadband Radio Service (CBRS) network.
11. An apparatus comprising: a memory; a network interface configured to enable network communications; and a processor, wherein the processor is configured to: generate an identifier for each of one or more services provided by a wireless local access network (WLAN), the identifier is a service token that maps a particular service, of the one or more services provided by the WLAN, with the same particular service provided by a private radio network; and control the network interface to provide to an access point the identifier to be broadcast to one or more user devices of the WLAN to connect to the particular service via the private radio network.
12. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein: the private radio network is a private long term evolution (LTE) network, the WLAN is a Wi-Fi network, and the access point provides access to the Wi-Fi network to the one or more user devices.
13. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to control the memory to store the identifier such that the identifier is associated with a service set identifier (SSID) of the particular service provided in the WLAN and with an access point name (APN) identifying the particular service provided in the private radio network.
14. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the service token has a predetermined length and is associated with the particular service having same set of one or more data plane policies in the WLAN and in the private radio network.
15. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the identifier is associated with a service set identifier (SSID) which identifies the particular service in the WLAN and is further associated with a public land mobile network (PLMN) network identifier (NID) access point name (APN) which identifies the particular service in the private radio network.
16. The apparatus of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to control the network interface to receive from another access point of the private radio network, a request to connect a user device among the one or more user devices to the private radio network, the request including the identifier and to enable, based on the identifier, the particular service to be provided via the private radio network.
17. A non-transitory computer readable medium encoded with software comprising computer executable instructions operable to perform operations comprising: generating an identifier for each of one or more services provided by a wireless local access network (WLAN), the identifier is a service token that maps a particular service, of the one or more services, with the same particular service provided by a private radio network; and providing, to an access point, the identifier to be broadcast to one or more user devices of the WLAN to connect to the particular service via the private radio network.
18. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further include: storing the identifier such that the identifier is associated with a service set identifier (SSID) of the particular service provided in the WLAN and with an access point name (APN) identifying the particular service provided in the private radio network.
19. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein the operations further include: storing the service token that has a predetermined length and is associated with the particular service having a same set of one or more data plane policies in the WLAN and in the private radio network.
20. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 17, wherein: the private radio network is a private long term evolution (LTE) network, the WLAN is a Wi-Fi® network, and the access point provides access to the Wi-Fi network to the one or more user devices.
</claims>
</document>
