<document>

<filing_date>
2016-05-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-05-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU HUAN
TANG, JILIANG
GUNDECHA, PRITAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57683247
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for predicting personal attributes based on public interaction data
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of a system for determining personal attributes based on public interaction data are illustrated. In one embodiment, the system employs a process for predicting personal attributes based on public interaction data by constructing matrices based on user interactions drawn from public posts on a social media website. The process may further learn a compact representation for a plurality of users based on public posts using the matrices, extract the compact representation of one or more users that have been labeled, and apply a classifier to learn about a particular personal attribute. Through this, a prediction of personal attributes of users that have not been labeled may be obtained.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for predicting personal attributes from publicly available data, the method comprising: accessing, at a computing device, a public network through a network interface to obtain public interaction data stored on the public network, the public interaction data corresponding to a plurality of users of the public network and comprising interactions with a plurality of public posts stored in the public network by the plurality of users; learning, by the computing device, a compact representation of user-user and post-post correlations using only the public interaction data, by constructing two Laplacian matrices, randomly initializing a set of three matrices, optimizing a plurality of objective functions derived from information associated with the two Laplacian matrices and the set of three matrices to generate a plurality of updating rules, updating the set of three matrices with the plurality of updating rules until convergence or reaching a predetermined number of maximum iterations, and outputting the compact representation including a representation of labeled users and labels associated with the labeled users; training a classifier for attribute prediction based on the labeled users and labels associated with the labeled users as defined by the compact representation; and applying the classifier to additional public interaction data to predict a personal attribute of an unlabeled user associated with the additional public interaction data.
2. The method of claim 1 further comprising: deriving the compact representation by applying a function to the public interaction data that defines a plurality of input variables, each of the plurality of input variables corresponding to one of the set of three matrices.
3. The method of claim 1 wherein the classifier is a linear support vector machine (SVM) classifier.
4. The method of claim 1 wherein the interactions with the plurality of public posts stored in the public network by the plurality of users includes at least one of an approval indication, a comment, and sharing of at least one of the plurality of the public posts.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising: modeling correlations of similarities in a historical behavior of the plurality of users of the public network in a user-user correlation.
6. The method of claim 1 further comprising: modeling correlations of similarities of interactions received by the plurality of public posts stored in the public network in a post-post correlation.
7. The method of claim 1 wherein the particular personal attribute is at least one of gender, relationship status, age, and religious affiliation of the subset of the plurality of users of the public network.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the public network is the Internet and the public interaction data is accessed through a publicly available social media website.
9. A computer system for predicting personal attributes from publicly available data, the system comprising: a processing device; a network interface for communicating with a public network; and a non-transitory storage medium with one or more executable instructions stored thereon, wherein the processing device executes the one or more instructions to perform the operations of: accessing the public network through the network interface to obtain public interaction data stored on the public network, the public interaction data corresponding to a plurality of users of the public network and comprising interactions with a plurality of public posts stored in the public network by the plurality of users; learning a compact representation for the plurality of users of the public network, by constructing two Laplacian matrices, randomly initializing a set of three matrices, optimizing a plurality of objective functions derived from information associated with the two Laplacian matrices and the set of three matrices to generate a plurality of updating rules, updating the set of three matrices with the plurality of updating rules until convergence or reaching a predetermined number of maximum iterations, and outputting the compact representation including a representation of labeled users and labels associated with the labeled users; training a classifier based on labeled users and associated labels defined by the compact representation; and applying the classifier to predict a personal attribute.
10. The system of claim 9 further comprising: a display device displaying the predicted personal attribute of the subset of the plurality of users of the public network.
11. The system of claim 9 wherein the classifier is a linear support vector machine (SVM) classifier.
12. The system of claim 9 wherein the interactions with the plurality of public posts stored in the public network by the plurality of users includes at least one of an approval indication, a comment, and sharing of at least one of the plurality of the public posts.
13. The system of claim 9 wherein the one or more executable instructions further cause the processing device to perform the operations of comprising: modeling correlations of similarities in a historical behavior of the plurality of users of the public network in a user-user correlation.
14. The system of claim 9 wherein the one or more executable instructions further cause the processing device to perform the operations of comprising: modeling correlations of similarities of interactions received by the plurality of public posts stored in the public network in a post-post correlation.
15. The system of claim 9 wherein the particular personal attribute is at least one of gender, relationship status, age, and religious affiliation of the subset of the plurality of users of the public network.
16. The system of claim 9 wherein the public network is the Internet and the public interaction data is accessed through a publicly available social media website.
17. One or more non-transitory tangible computer-readable storage media storing computer-executable instructions for performing a computer process on a machine, the computer process comprising: accessing, at a computing device, a public network through a network interface to obtain public interaction data stored on the public network, the public interaction data corresponding to a plurality of users of the public network and comprising interactions with a plurality of public posts stored in the public network by the plurality of users; learning a compact representation for the plurality of users of the public network, by constructing two Laplacian matrices, randomly initializing a set of three matrices, optimizing a plurality of objective functions derived from information associated with the two Laplacian matrices and the set of three matrices to generate a plurality of updating rules, updating the set of three matrices with the plurality of updating rules until convergence or reaching a predetermined number of maximum iterations, and outputting the compact representation including a representation of labeled users and labels associated with the labeled users; training a classifier based on labeled users and associated labels defined by the compact representation; and applying the classifier to the compact representation for a particular personal attribute of at least one of the plurality of users to predict a personal attribute of a subset of the plurality of users of the public network.
18. The one or more non-transitory tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17 for performing a computer process on a machine, the computer process further comprising: displaying the predicted personal attribute of the subset of the plurality of users of the public network on a display device of the computing device.
19. The one or more non-transitory tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17 for performing a computer process on a machine, the computer process further comprising: modeling correlations of similarities in a historical behavior of the plurality of users of the public network in a user-user correlation.
20. The one or more non-transitory tangible computer-readable storage media of claim 17 for performing a computer process on a machine, the computer process further comprising: modeling correlations of similarities of interactions received by the plurality of public posts stored in the public network in a post-post correlation.
</claims>
</document>
