<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-06-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G09C1/00,H04L9/08,H04W12/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HILTUNEN, MATTI A.
MILUZZO, EMILIANO
SRIVASTAVA, ABHINAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51986535
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Secure multi-party device pairing using sensor data
</title>

<abstract>
Content is securely shared between communication devices in an ad-hoc manner by employing common sensing context to establish pairing between the communication devices. In one aspect, the communication devices are within a specified distance from each other and sense common signals from their environment over a specified time period. The common signals are analyzed to determine an initialization or session key, which is utilized to secure content transfer between the communication devices. Additionally or alternatively, the key is utilized to provide access to virtual (e.g., digital content) and/or physical (e.g., buildings) resources.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A first device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining first cryptographic key data based on first context data associated with an environment of the first device; encrypting test data using the first cryptographic key data, resulting in encrypted test data; sending the encrypted test data to a second device; and receiving a confirmation from the second device that the first cryptographic key data is valid based on the encrypted test data being able to be decrypted by the second device using second cryptographic key data determined by the second device based on second context data associated with the environment.
2. The first device of claim 1, wherein the confirmation that the first cryptographic key data is valid indicates the first cryptographic key data corresponds to the second cryptographic key data.
3. The first device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: based on the receiving the confirmation, sending the first cryptographic key data to a third device; and granting, to the third device, authority to perform secure data communication with the second device using the first cryptographic key data.
4. The first device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: based on the receiving the confirmation, encrypting content data for transmission to the second device using the first cryptographic key data.
5. The first device of claim 4, wherein the operations further comprise: subsequent to the encrypting the content data, facilitating a transfer of the content data to the second device, wherein the content data is capable of being decrypted by the second device using the second cryptographic key data.
6. The first device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: based on the receiving the confirmation, employing the first cryptographic key data to decrypt content data received from the second device encrypted using the second cryptographic key data.
7. The first device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: capturing context signals from the environment using a sensor; and determining the first context data based on the context signals, wherein the second context data is determined by the second device based on a group of the context signals.
8. The first device of claim 7, wherein the group of the context signals is concurrently captured by the first device and the second device.
9. The first device of claim 7, wherein the group of the context signals are selected from a group of signals comprising: a vibration signal applied by an external force to a surface shared by the first device and the second device, a sound signal occurring in the environment, an image signal occurring in the environment, a temperature signal occurring in the environment, and a light signal occurring in the environment.
10. The first device of claim 7, wherein the determining the first cryptographic key comprises: selecting features from the context signals based on a common sensing modality supported by the first device and the second device; and generating the first cryptographic key based on the features.
11. The first device of claim 7, wherein the capturing comprises: initiating the capturing of the context signals in response to detecting a synchronization signal; and stopping the capturing in response to passage of a defined period of time.
12. A method, comprising: determining, by a first device comprising a processor, first cryptographic key data based on first context data associated with an environment of the first device; encrypting, by the first device, test data using the first cryptographic key data, resulting in encrypted test data; sending, by the first device, the encrypted test data to a second device; and receiving, by the first device, a confirmation from the second device that the first cryptographic key data is valid based on the encrypted test data being able to be decrypted by the second device using second cryptographic key data determined by the second device based on second context data associated with the environment.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the confirmation that the first cryptographic key data is valid indicates the first cryptographic key data corresponds to the second cryptographic key data.
14. The method of claim 12, further comprising: based on the receiving the confirmation sending, by the first device, the first cryptographic key data to a third device; and granting, by the first device to the third device, authority to perform secure data communication with the second device using the first cryptographic key data.
15. The method of claim 12, further comprising: based on the receiving the confirmation, encrypting, by the first device content data for transmission to the second device using the first cryptographic key data.
16. The method of claim 15, further comprising: subsequent to the content data encrypting, facilitating, by the first device, a transfer of the content data to the second device, wherein the content data is capable of being decrypted by the second device using the second cryptographic key data.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising: based on the receiving the confirmation, employing, by the first device, the first cryptographic key data to decrypt content data received from the second device encrypted using the second cryptographic key data.
18. The method of claim 12, further comprising: capturing, by the first device, context signals from the environment using a sensor; and determining, by the first device, the first context data based on the context signals, wherein the second context data is determined by the second device based on a group of the context signals.
19. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a first device, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining first key data based on context signals captured from an environment of the first device; encrypting test data using the first key data, resulting in encrypted test data; sending the encrypted test data to a second device; and receiving a confirmation from the second device that the first key data is valid based on the encrypted test data being determined to have been able to be decrypted by the second device using second key data determinable by the second device based on second context signal captured by the second device from the environment.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise: based on the receiving the confirmation, encrypting, by the first device, content data for transmission to the second device using the first key data.
</claims>
</document>
