<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/638,G06F16/683,G06F16/9535,G06F17/30,G06F3/16,G10L19/018,G11B27/10,G11B27/34
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARK, JI-HUN
RYU, YOUNG JUN
KIM, MYUNG JAE
JIN, JANG-HO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57130133
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Display apparatus, background music providing method thereof and background music providing system
</title>

<abstract>
A background music providing method includes storing an audio parameter with respect to background music reproduced while a background music identification mode is being activated, acquiring information on the background music based on the audio parameter when receiving a background music identification command, and transmitting the information on the background music to an external apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for providing background music of a display apparatus, the method comprising: reproducing content including a background music, on the display apparatus; based on receiving a user command for activating a music identification mode obtaining, from the background music, an audio parameter corresponding to the background music while the music identification mode is being activated; transmitting the audio parameter to an external source; obtaining information about the background music based on the audio parameter, from the external source; and displaying a screen including the obtained information about the background music, on the display apparatus.
2. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: transmitting the obtained information to an external apparatus; and displaying, by the external apparatus, a music album list that includes the background music based on the transmitted information.
3. The method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising: reproducing, by the external apparatus, the background music included in the music album list, based on a reproduction command being input through the music album list.
4. The method as claimed in claim 2, further comprising: temporarily displaying, on a part of the display apparatus, a guide message informing that the background music is confirmable on the external apparatus, in response to the information on the background music being transmitted to the external apparatus.
5. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the obtaining the audio parameter comprises: extracting a fingerprint for the background music from the background music; and storing the extracted fingerprint.
6. The method as claimed in claim 5, wherein the obtaining the information comprises: transmitting the fingerprint to a music identification server; and receiving the information, from the music identification server.
7. The method as claimed in claim 1, wherein the content includes a plurality of background music pieces, the background music being one of the plurality of background music pieces, and the obtaining the information comprises preferentially obtaining the information on a background music piece reproduced at a time when a background music identification command for obtaining the information is received, from the plurality of background music pieces.
8. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: generating a music album list that includes the background music based on the obtained information, and transmitting the music album list to an external apparatus.
9. The method as claimed in claim 1, further comprising: reproducing, by the display apparatus, the background music received from an external content server, the background music corresponding to the obtained information included in the displayed screen.
10. A display apparatus comprising: a display; a communicator; an input unit configured to receive a user command; and a controller configured to: control the display to display content including a background music, based on receiving, through the input unit, a user command for activating a music identification mode, obtain from the background music, an audio parameter corresponding to the background music while the music identification mode is being activated, control the communicator to transmit the audio parameter to an external source, obtain information about the background music based on the audio parameter from the external source, and control the display to display a screen including the obtained information about the background music.
11. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to control the communicator to transmit the obtained information to an external apparatus, and wherein the external apparatus is configured to display a music album list that includes the background music based on the transmitted information on the background music.
12. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the external apparatus is further configured to reproduce the background music included in the music album list, based on receiving a reproduction command through the music album list.
13. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to temporarily display, on a part of the display, a guide message informing that the background music is confirmable on the external apparatus, in response to the information on the background music being transmitted to the external apparatus.
14. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to extract a fingerprint for the background music from the background music, and store the extracted fingerprint in a storage.
15. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 14, wherein the controller is further configured to control the communicator to transmit the fingerprint to a music identification server, and control the communicator to receive the information from the music identification server.
16. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the content includes a plurality of background music pieces, the background music being one of the plurality of background music pieces, and the controller is further configured to preferentially obtain the information on a background music piece reproduced at a time when a background music identification command for obtaining the information is received, from the plurality of background music pieces.
17. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to generate a music album list that includes the background music based on the obtained information, and transmit the generated music album list to an external apparatus.
18. The display apparatus as claimed in claim 17, further comprising an audio output unit, wherein the controller is further configured to control the audio output unit to reproduce the background music received from an external content server, the background music corresponding to the obtained information included in the displayed screen.
19. A background music providing system comprising: an external apparatus; and a display apparatus configured to: reproduce content including a background music, based on receiving a user command for activating a music identification mode obtain, from the background music, an audio parameter corresponding to the background music while the music identification mode is being activated, transmit the audio parameter to an external source, obtain information about the background music based on the audio parameter, from the external source, display a screen including the obtained information about the background music, and transmit the obtained information to the external apparatus, wherein the external apparatus is configured to display a music album list that includes the background music based on the transmitted information on the background music.
</claims>
</document>
