<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01N63/00,A61K35/00,A61K35/741,A61K39/02,C12Q1/6806,C12Q1/689
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
YALE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLAVELL, RICHARD
PALM, NOAH
DE ZOETE, MARCEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51625182
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Compositions and methods for identifying secretory antibody-bound microbes
</title>

<abstract>
The invention relates to the identification of secretory antibody-bound bacteria in the microbiota in a subject that influence the development and progression of inflammatory diseases and disorders. Thus, the invention relates to compositions and methods for detecting and identifying the constituents of a subject's microbiota, methods of modifying the constituents of the microbiota, and methods for treating inflammatory diseases and disorders in a subject in need thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of treating non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject at least one therapy, wherein the at least one therapy induces an immune response directed against a secretory antibody-bound bacteria in the microbiota of the subject that contributes to the development or progression of NASH.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one therapy is selected from the group consisting of at least one vaccine and at least one passive immunotherapy.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one therapy comprises at least one vaccine.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the secretory antibody-bound bacteria is at least one of Segmented Filamentous Bacteria (SFB), Lactobacillus, Helicobacter, S24-7, Erysipelotrichaceae, Prevotellaceae, Eubacterium, Acidaminococcus, Actinomyces, Allobaculum, Anaerostipes, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Blautia, Clostridium, Coprococcus, Dialister, Erysipelotrichaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Lactobacillus, Oscillospira, Rikenellaceae, Roseburia, Ruminococcaceae, Ruminococcus, SMB53, Streptococcus, Sutterella, Turicibacter, UC Clostridiales, UC Erysipelotrichaceae, UC Ruminococcaceae, Veillonella and Weissella.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the secretory antibody-bound bacteria is at least one of Heliobacter flexispira, Eubacterium biforme, Eubacterium dolichum, Ruminococcus gnavus, Bacteroides fragilis, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Blautia obeum, Blautia producta, Clostridium perfringens, Collinsella aerofaciens, Coprococcus catus, Eggerthella lenta, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Lactobacillus mucosae, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus zeae, Roseburia faecis, Ruminococcaceae, Ruminococcus, Ruminococcus bromii, Streptococcus luteciae and Veillonella dispar.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising diagnosing NASH in the subject prior to administering the at least one therapy, wherein the diagnosing comprises the steps of: (a) isolating secretory an antibody-bound bacteria from a biological sample obtained from the subject; (b) amplifying bacterial nucleic acid from the secretory antibody bound bacteria so isolated; (c) determining sequences of the bacterial nucleic acid so amplified; and (d) identifying the type of antibody-bound bacteria present in the biological sample by identifying nucleic acid sequences that are indicative of particular types of bacteria, wherein when the type of antibody-bound bacteria present in the subject's biological sample is a type of bacteria that contributes to the development or progression of NASH, the subject is diagnosed with NASH.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the biological sample is at least one of a fecal sample, a mucus sample, a sputum sample, and a breast milk sample.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the bacterial nucleic acid is a gene encoding 16S rRNA.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein the isolating is step (a) comprises: (i) performing a first round of cell sorting; and (ii) performing a second round of cell sorting on a secretory antibody-positive fraction obtained from the first round of cell sorting.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first round of cell sorting is performed using magnetic activated cell sorting.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the second round of cell sorting is performed using fluorescence activated cell sorting.
12. A method of treating inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in a subject in need thereof, the method comprising administering to the subject at least one therapy, wherein the at least one therapy induces an immune response directed against a secretory antibody-bound bacteria in the microbiota of the subject that contributes to the development or progression of IBD.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one therapy is selected from the group consisting of at least one vaccine and at least one passive immunotherapy.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the at least one therapy comprises at least one vaccine.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the secretory antibody-bound bacteria is at least one of Segmented Filamentous Bacteria (SFB), Lactobacillus, Helicobacter, S24-7, Erysipelotrichaceae, Prevotellaceae, Eubacterium, Acidaminococcus, Actinomyces, Allobaculum, Anaerostipes, Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, Blautia, Clostridium, Coprococcus, Dialister, Erysipelotrichaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Lactobacillus, Oscillospira, Rikenellaceae, Roseburia, Ruminococcaceae, Ruminococcus, SMB53, Streptococcus, Sutterella, Turicibacter, UC Clostridiales, UC Erysipelotrichaceae, UC Ruminococcaceae, Veillonella and Weissella.
16. The method of claim 12, wherein the secretory antibody-bound bacteria is at least one of Heliobacier flexispira, Eubacierium biforme, Eubacterium dolichum, Ruminococcus gnavus, Bacteroides fragilis, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Blautia obeum, Blautia producta, Clostridium perfringens, Collinsella aerofaciens, Coprococcus caus, Eggerthella lenta, Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Lactobacillus mucosae, Lactobacillus reuteri, Lactobacillus zeae, Roseburia faecis, Ruminococcaceae, Ruminococcus, Ruminococcus bromii, Streptococcus luteciae and Veillonella dispar.
17. The method of claim 12, further comprising diagnosing IBD in the subject prior to administering the at least one therapy, wherein the diagnosing comprises the steps of: (a) isolating secretory an antibody-bound bacteria from a biological sample obtained from the subject; (b) amplifying bacterial nucleic acid from the secretory antibody bound bacteria so isolated; (c) determining sequences of the bacterial nucleic acid so amplified; and (d) identifying the type of antibody-bound bacteria present in the biological sample by identifying nucleic acid sequences that are indicative of particular types of bacteria, wherein when the type of antibody-bound bacteria present in the subject's biological sample is a type of bacteria that contributes to the development or progression of IBD, the subject is diagnosed with IBD.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the biological sample is at least one of a fecal sample, a mucus sample, a sputum sample, and a breast milk sample.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the bacterial nucleic acid is a gene encoding 16S rRNA.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the isolating is step (a) comprises: (i) performing a first round of cell sorting; and (ii) performing a second round of cell sorting on a secretory antibody-positive fraction obtained from the first round of cell sorting.
21. The method of claim 20, wherein the first round of cell sorting is performed using magnetic activated cell sorting.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the second round of cell sorting is performed using fluorescence activated cell sorting.
</claims>
</document>
