<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60H1/00,B60H1/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LEAR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GALLAGHER, DAVID
IVANOV, VYACHISLAV
MIGNECO, FRANCESCO
YETUKURI, ARJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67842917
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle climate control system with occupant based temperature control
</title>

<abstract>
A climate control system for a vehicle includes an infrared sensor disposed within a passenger compartment of the vehicle. The infrared sensor is configured to receive infrared radiation from a skin surface of a vehicle occupant. The climate control system further includes a controller configured to receive a signal indicative of a detected temperature detected at the skin surface. In response to the detected temperature deviating from a baseline temperature, the controller is configured to automatically control an HVAC system to add conditioned air into the passenger compartment and to control a thermoelectric device configured to adjust a seat surface temperature.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A climate control system for a vehicle, comprising: an infrared sensor disposed within a passenger compartment of the vehicle, the infrared sensor directed toward an occupant's face and configured to receive infrared radiation from a skin surface of a plurality of facial regions of the occupant; a thermoelectric device positioned along a seat surface; a muscle sensor configured to detect a shiver event of the occupant; and a controller programmed to: receive a signal from the muscle sensor indicative of the shiver event; receive a signal from the infrared sensor indicative of a detected temperature detected at the skin surface of the plurality of facial regions; and, in response to detecting the shiver event and the detected temperature deviating from a baseline temperature in at least one of the plurality of facial regions, automatically control an HVAC system to add conditioned air into the passenger compartment and automatically control the thermoelectric device to adjust the seat surface temperature.
2. The climate control system of claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to control the HVAC system and the thermoelectric device in response to the detected temperature deviating a predefined threshold from the baseline temperature.
3. The climate control system of claim 2 wherein the controller is configured to operate a cooling system of the HVAC system in response to the detected temperature deviating above the baseline temperature by the predefined threshold, and wherein the controller is configured to operate a heating system of the HVAC system in response to the detected temperature deviating below the baseline temperature by the predefined threshold.
4. The climate control system of claim 1 wherein the controller is configured to operate the HVAC system according to a first climate parameter in response to the detected temperature deviating a first predefined threshold from the baseline temperature, and wherein the controller is configured to operate the HVAC system according to a second climate parameter different than the first climate parameter in response to the detected temperature deviating a second predefined threshold from the baseline temperature, the second predefined threshold having a greater deviation from the baseline temperature than the first predefined threshold.
5. The climate control system of claim 4 wherein the controller receives a plurality of signals, each signal indicative of the detected temperature detected at the skin surface at one of the plurality of facial regions from the infrared sensor.
6. The climate control system of claim 5 wherein the thermoelectric device is configured to heat the seat surface to increase the seat surface temperature and to cool the seat surface to decrease the seat surface temperature.
7. The climate control system of claim 1 wherein the baseline temperature is a temperature range of approximately 32.0째 C. to approximately 37.0째 C.
8. The climate control system of claim 1 wherein in response to the detected temperature deviating from the baseline temperature, the controller is configured to automatically control a thermoelectric device configured to adjust a steering wheel surface temperature.
9. The climate control system of claim 1 wherein the muscle sensor is secured to a vehicle seat, the muscle sensor configured to detect electric potential generated by muscle cells of the occupant.
10. A climate control system for a vehicle, comprising: a seat assembly disposed within a passenger compartment of the vehicle, the seat assembly including: a seat bottom mounted to a vehicle body, a seat back mounted adjacent to the seat bottom, and a muscle sensor secured to at least one of the seat bottom and the seat back, the muscle sensor configured to detect a shiver event of a vehicle occupant; an infrared sensor directed toward the occupant's face and configured to receive infrared radiation from a skin surface of a plurality of facial regions of the occupant; a heating device; and a controller programmed to: receive a signal from the muscle sensor indicative of the shiver event; receive a signal from the infrared sensor indicative of a detected temperature detected at the skin surface of the plurality of facial regions; and, in response to detecting the shiver event and the detected temperature deviating below a threshold value, automatically adjust an operating parameter of the heating device.
11. The climate control system of claim 10 wherein the muscle sensor is an electromyograph configured to detect electric potential generated by muscle cells of the vehicle occupant, and wherein the electromyograph includes a plurality of electrodes secured to the seat assembly.
12. The climate control system of claim 10 wherein the heating device is at least one of a seat warmer configured to warm a seat surface of the seat assembly, a steering wheel warmer configured to warm a steering wheel surface, and a HVAC system having a blower motor configured to add heated air into the passenger compartment, and wherein adjusting the heating device includes at least one of activating the seat warmer, activating the steering wheel warmer, and adjusting a speed of the blower motor.
13. The climate control system of claim 10 wherein automatically adjusting the operating parameter of the heating device comprises automatically controlling an HVAC system to add heated air into the passenger compartment.
14. The climate control system of claim 10 wherein the controller is further configured to: receive a signal indicative of an air temperature, and automatically adjust the operating parameter of the heating device in response to receiving the signal indicative of the shiver event and the air temperature being below a threshold air temperature.
15. A method for controlling a vehicle climate system, comprising: providing an infrared sensor disposed within a passenger compartment of the vehicle and directed at an occupant's face; receiving infrared radiation by the infrared sensor from a plurality of facial regions at a skin surface of the occupant; and sending a temperature signal indicative of a temperature at the skin surface, and detecting a shiver event from a muscle sensor disposed in the passenger compartment of the vehicle; in response to detecting the shiver event and the temperature signal deviating from a baseline temperature, automatically controlling an HVAC system to add conditioned air into the passenger compartment.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: operating the HVAC system according to a first climate parameter in response to the temperature deviating a first predefined threshold from the baseline temperature; and operating the HVAC system according to a second climate parameter different than the first climate parameter in response to the temperature deviating a second predefined threshold from the baseline temperature, the second predefined threshold having a greater deviation from the baseline temperature than the first predefined threshold.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising: providing the muscle sensor in a vehicle seat.
18. The method of claim 15 further comprising: providing an annunciation device disposed within the passenger compartment; effecting at least one of a visual annunciation, an audible annunciation, and a haptic annunciation by the annunciation device when the temperature signal is indicative of a temperature at the skin surface being outside of the range of approximately 32째 C. to approximately 37째 C.
19. The method of claim 15 further comprising: producing a thermal image in response to receiving infrared radiation from the skin surface at the plurality of facial regions of the occupant; performing a facial recognition routine on the thermal image, generating a user identifier and a thermal profile associated with the thermal image, wherein the thermal profile includes at least one user-associated baseline temperature, and storing the user identifier and the thermal profile in a memory.
20. The method of claim 19 further comprising: producing a second thermal image in response to receiving infrared radiation; performing a second facial recognition routine on the second thermal image, accessing from the memory a stored user identifier and a stored thermal profile having a stored user-associated baseline temperature, and automatically controlling an HVAC system to add conditioned air into the passenger compartment in response to the temperature signal deviating from the stored user-associated baseline temperature; modifying the stored user-associated baseline temperature associated with the stored user identifier; and storing the modified stored user-associated baseline temperature in the memory.
</claims>
</document>
