<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R29/12,G01R31/00,H01T19/04,H01T23/00,H05F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
IBEN, ICKO E. T.
KINNEAR, JR., JOHN THOMAS
LAM, HO-YIU
TAN, SIA KAI JULIAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65517442
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated static control
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure related to automated static control. A set of static sensor data may be obtained from two or more static sensors. The set of static sensor data may be analyzed to determine whether a static condition exists. In response to a determination that a static condition exists, a set of mobile static unit data may be collected from one or more mobile static units. The set of mobile static unit data may be analyzed to select a mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units. An action may be transmitted to the selected mobile static unit, and the selected mobile static unit may be deployed to mitigate the static condition.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for dynamically controlling static electricity, the system comprising: two or more static sensors configured to obtain a set of static sensor data by sampling static indicators associated with at least one target location; one or more mobile static units configured to mitigate static; and a processor and memory communicatively coupled to the two or more static sensors and the one or more mobile static units, wherein the processor is configured to perform a method comprising: obtaining the set of static sensor data from the two or more static sensors; analyzing the set of static sensor data; determining, based on the analysis of the set of static sensor data, that a static condition exists; obtaining, in response to determining that a static condition exists, a set of mobile static unit data from the one or more mobile static units; analyzing the set of mobile static unit data; selecting, based on the analysis of the mobile static unit data, a mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units; transmitting an action to mitigate the static condition to the selected mobile static unit; and deploying the selected mobile static unit to mitigate the static condition.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data further comprises generating a heat map of the static sensor data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of static electricity potential data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data includes comparing the set of static electricity potential data to a set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of static electricity potential data does not satisfy the set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a corona discharge ionizer.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of humidity data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data further comprises comparing the set of humidity data to a set of humidity thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of humidity data does not satisfy the set of humidity thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a humidifier.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units is an unmanned air vehicle (UAV).
6. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units is a rail delivery system.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein analyzing the set of mobile static unit data and selecting the mobile static unit further comprises: determining a location of the static condition; determining a location of each of the one or more mobile static units; comparing the location of the static condition to the location of each of the one or more mobile static units; and selecting the mobile static unit nearest to the static condition.
8. A computer implemented method for dynamically controlling static electricity comprising: obtaining a set of static sensor data from two or more static sensors, wherein the two or more static sensors are configured to obtain the set of static sensor data by sampling static indicators associated with at least one target location; analyzing the set of static sensor data; determining that a static condition exists based on the analysis; obtaining, in response to determining that a static condition exists, a set of mobile static unit data from one or more mobile static units; analyzing the set of mobile static unit data; selecting, based on the analysis of the mobile static unit data, a mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units; transmitting an action to the selected mobile static unit; and deploying the selected mobile static unit to mitigate the static condition.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data further comprises generating a heat map of the static sensor data.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of static electricity potential data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data includes comparing the set of static electricity potential data to a set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of static electricity potential data does not satisfy the set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a nuclear ionizer.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of humidity data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data further comprises comparing the set of humidity data to a set of humidity thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of humidity data does not satisfy the set of humidity thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a humidifier.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units is a multi-rotor unmanned air vehicle (UAV).
13. The method of claim 8, wherein at least one mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units is a rail delivery system.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein analyzing the set of mobile static unit data and selecting the mobile static unit further comprises: determining a power level of each of the one or more mobile static units; comparing the power level of each of the one or more mobile static units to each other; and selecting the mobile static unit with the highest power level.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein transmitting the action is based on machine learning from previously obtained static sensor data and mobile static unit data.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: obtaining a set of static sensor data from two or more static sensors, wherein the two or more static sensors are configured to obtain the set of static sensor data by sampling static indicators associated with at least one target location; analyzing the set of static sensor data; determining that a static condition exists based on the analysis; obtaining, in response to determining that a static condition exists, a set of mobile static unit data from one or more mobile static units; analyzing the set of mobile static unit data; selecting, based on the analysis of the mobile static unit data, a mobile static unit of the one or more mobile static units; transmitting an action to the selected mobile static unit; and deploying the selected mobile static unit to mitigate the static condition.
17. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of static electricity potential data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data includes comparing the set of static electricity potential data to a set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of static electricity potential data does not satisfy the set of static electricity potential thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a corona discharge ionizer with a blower fan.
18. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the set of static sensor data includes a set of humidity data, wherein analyzing the set of static sensor data further comprises comparing the set of humidity data to a set of humidity thresholds, wherein the static condition is determined to exist if the set of humidity data does not satisfy the set of humidity thresholds, wherein the mobile static unit includes a humidifier with a blower fan.
19. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein the mobile static unit is a multi-rotor unmanned air vehicle (UAV) with a nuclear ionizer.
20. The computer program product of claim 16, wherein analyzing the set of mobile static unit data includes determining a type of static eliminator associated with each of the one or more mobile static units.
</claims>
</document>
