<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
KHANNA, ARAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64693825
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Model and filter deployment across IoT networks
</title>

<abstract>
A deployment service at a remote provider network receives topology data for a local network and generates data filters for edge devices of the local network based on the topology data. The deployment service then sends the data filters to a hub device connected to the local network. The hub device deploys the data filters to respective edge devices of the local network. The data filters may be configured to discard a sufficient portion of collected data to prevent routers from being overloaded by network traffic. The data filters may also be configured to discard a sufficient portion of collected data to prevent the edge devices from consuming too much power in order to preserve energy cost or battery life.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a plurality of data source devices connected to a network that collect respective data, wherein at least one of the data source devices comprises at least one respective data filter, wherein upon receiving the data at the at least one data filter, the at least one data source device is configured to: determine a first portion of the data; determine a second portion of the data to be filtered from transmission to at least one hub device connected to the network; send the first portion of the data to the at least one hub device via the network, wherein the second portion of the data is filtered to prevent the second portion of the data from being sent to the at least one hub device; one or more network components of the network, configured to route the first portion of the data from the at least one of data source data device to the at least one hub device; and the at least one hub device, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories, wherein the one or more memories have stored thereon instructions, which when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to process the first portion of the data from the at least one data source device.
2. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the one or more network components comprise one or more wireless routers with a data transmission capacity, and wherein the at least one data filter is configured to filter a sufficient portion of the collected data to prevent one or more of the wireless routers from being overloaded by network traffic.
3. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one data source device is powered by a battery, and wherein the at least one data filter is configured to filter a sufficient portion of the collected data to prevent the at least one data source device from consuming a threshold amount of power.
4. The system as recited in claim 1, wherein the at least one data source device comprises a microcontroller with a processor and memory that implement the at least one data filter, wherein a size of the memory is a least an order of magnitude smaller than a size of the one or more memories of the at least one hub device.
5. The system as recited in claim 4, wherein the at least one hub device is configured to: receive topology data indicating one or more changes in a topology or performance of the network; transmit, to a provider network, the topology data; receive, from the provider network, one or more new data filters based on the topology data; and deploy the one or more new data filters to a respective one or more of the data source devices, wherein the one or more new data filters replace one or more respective data filters at the one or more data source devices.
6. A method, comprising: obtaining, at at least one hub device connected to a network, topology data of the network, wherein the topology data indicates at least: at least one data source device connected to the network; and one or more network components connected to the network; determining, by the at least one hub device, at least one data filter for the at least one data source device, wherein a configuration of the at least one data filter is based at least on the topology data of the network connected to the at least one hub device, and wherein the at least one data source device is configured to perform, upon receiving data at the at least one data filter of the at least one data source device: determining a first portion of the data; determining a second portion of the data to be filtered from transmission to the at least one hub device; and sending the first portion of the data to the at least one hub device via the one or more network components, wherein the second portion of the data is filtered to prevent the second portion of the data from being sent to the at least one hub device; and deploying the at least one data filter from the at least one hub device to respective ones of the at least one data source device.
7. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the topology data comprises an indication of a data transmission capacity for one or more of the network components.
8. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the topology data comprises an indication of a power consumption limit for one or more of the data source devices.
9. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the one or more data filters comprise respective data partitioning schemes implementing respective rules for determining the respective second portions of the data to be filtered from transmission to the at least one hub device.
10. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein at least two different data filters comprise different data partitioning schemes implementing different rules for determining the respective second portions of the data to be filtered from transmission to the at least one hub device.
11. The method as recited in claim 6, further comprising: in response to receiving, by the at least one hub device, the first portion of the data from the at least one data source device: analyzing the first portion of the data by a data processing model at the at least one hub device; generating a response based on the analyzing; and transmitting the response to one or more endpoints.
12. The method as recited in claim 11, wherein generating the response comprises: determining, based on the analyzing of the data, one or more commands to be transmitted to one or more devices at the one or more endpoints.
13. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the determining, by the at least one hub device, the one or more data filters for the at least one data source device comprises: transmitting the topology data from the at least one hub device to a remote provider network; and receiving, from the remote provider network, the at least one data filter for the at least one data source device.
14. The method as recited in claim 6, wherein the determining, by the at least one hub device, the at least one data filter for the at least one data source device comprises: analyzing, by the at least one hub device, the topology data; and generating the at least one data filter based on the analyzing of the topology data.
15. A method, comprising: collecting, by at least one of a plurality of data source devices connected to a network, respective data; upon receiving the data at at least one data filter of the at least one of the data source devices, performing, by the at least one data source device: determining a first portion of the data; determining a second portion of the data to be filtered from transmission to the at least one hub device; and sending the first portion of the data to at least one hub device connected to the network, wherein the second portion of the data is filtered to prevent the second portion of the data from being sent to the at least one hub device, and wherein a configuration of the at least one data filter is based on topology data for the network connected to the at least one hub device.
16. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein one or more network components of the network that route the first portion of the data to the at least one hub device comprise one or more wireless routers with a data transmission capacity, and further comprising: filtering, by the at least one data filter, a sufficient portion of the collected data to prevent one or more of the wireless routers from being overloaded by network traffic.
17. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein determining the first portion of the data comprises: performing an operation on a time-series data set of the collected data to generate the first portion of the data.
18. The method as recited in claim 15, further comprising: obtaining, at the at least one hub device, topology data of the network, wherein the topology data indicates at least: the at least one data source device; and one or more network components of the network; determining, by the at least one hub device, the at least one data filter for the at least one data source device, wherein a configuration of the at least one data filter is based at least on the topology data; deploying the at least one data filter from the at least one hub device to the at least one data source device.
19. The method as recited in claim 18, further comprising: receiving, from the at least one hub device, the at least one data filter for the at least one data source device.
20. The method as recited in claim 15, wherein the at least one data source device comprises at least one environmental sensor device, and further comprising: collecting, by the at least one data source device, the respective data as environmental data from the at least one environmental sensor device.
</claims>
</document>
