<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G02B27/00,G02B27/01,H04N5/235,H04N5/341
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK TECHNOLOGY COMPANY
Fenwick & West LLP
</assignee>

<inventors>
HALL, MICHAEL
LI, FENGQIANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71946347
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
High dynamic range camera assembly with augmented pixels
</title>

<abstract>
A camera assembly for generating high dynamic range images. The camera assembly includes a sensor that images a portion of a local area, and a controller. The sensor includes a plurality of augmented pixels, each augmented pixel having a plurality of gates and at least some of the gates have a respective local storage location. An exposure interval of each augmented pixel is divided into intervals associated with the gates, and each local storage location stores image data during a respective interval. The controller reads out, after the exposure interval of each augmented pixel, the image data stored in the respective local storage locations of each augmented pixel to form intermediate images that each have a dynamic range. The controller then generates an image for the portion of the local area using the intermediate images, the image having a higher dynamic range than each of the intermediate images.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A camera assembly comprising: a sensor configured to image at least a portion of a local area, the sensor including a plurality of augmented pixels, each augmented pixel having more than two gates, each gate with a respective local storage location, wherein an exposure interval of each augmented pixel is divided into a plurality of capture intervals and a plurality of drain intervals, each local storage location stores image data during a respective capture interval, the respective capture interval interleaved within the exposure interval with multiple of the capture intervals associated with other local storage locations; and a controller configured to: enable activation of a drain gate during each drain interval of the plurality of drain intervals between two of the capture intervals associated with the same two of the gates, read out, after the exposure interval of each augmented pixel, the image data stored in the respective local storage locations of each augmented pixel to form a plurality of intermediate images that each have a dynamic range, and generate an image for the portion of the local area using the plurality of intermediate images, wherein the image has a higher dynamic range than each of the intermediate images.
2. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: generate the image for the portion of the local area by applying a reconstruction algorithm on the plurality of intermediate images.
3. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: generate the image for the portion of the local area by applying a machine learning algorithm on the plurality of intermediate images.
4. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein each capture interval is different for each gate that has a respective local storage location, and each intermediate image is associated with a different exposure value.
5. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein each capture interval is a same time interval for each gate that has a respective local storage location, but has a different number of repetitions within the exposure interval, and each intermediate image is associated with a different exposure value.
6. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein a first exposure interval of a first augmented pixel of the plurality of augmented pixels is different than a second exposure interval of a second augmented pixel of the plurality of augmented pixels.
7. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: assign a duration of the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a distance between that augmented pixel and at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
8. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: assign a duration of the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a brightness of at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
9. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: assign a number of capture intervals for repetition within the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a distance between that augmented pixel and at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
10. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to: assign a number of capture intervals for repetition within the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a brightness of at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
11. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein one of the gates comprises the drain gate.
12. The camera assembly of claim 1, wherein the camera assembly is part of a headset.
13. A method comprising: instructing a sensor to image at least a portion of a local area, the sensor including a plurality of augmented pixels, each augmented pixel having more than two gates, each gate with a respective local storage location, wherein an exposure interval of each augmented pixel is divided into a plurality of capture intervals and a plurality of drain intervals, each local storage location stores image data during a respective capture interval, the respective capture interval interleaved within the exposure interval with multiple of the capture intervals associated with other local storage locations; enabling activation of a drain gate during each drain interval of the plurality of drain intervals between two of the capture intervals associated with the same two of the gates; reading out, after the exposure interval of each augmented pixel, the image data stored in the respective local storage locations of each augmented pixel to form a plurality of intermediate images that each have a dynamic range; and generating an image for the portion of the local area using the plurality of intermediate images, wherein the image has a higher dynamic range than each of the intermediate images.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein each capture interval is different for each gate that has a respective local storage location, and each intermediate image is associated with a different exposure value.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein a first exposure interval of a first augmented pixel of the plurality of augmented pixels is different than a second exposure interval of a second augmented pixel of the plurality of augmented pixels.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: assigning a duration of the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a distance between that augmented pixel and at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising: assigning a duration of the exposure interval for that augmented pixel, based on a brightness of at least one object in the local area imaged at least partially by that augmented pixel.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein one of the gates comprises the drain gate.
19. A method comprising: imaging, via a sensor, at least a portion of a local area, the sensor including a plurality of augmented pixels, each augmented pixel having more than two gates, each gate with a respective local storage location, wherein an exposure interval of each augmented pixel is divided into a plurality of capture intervals and a plurality of drain intervals, each local storage location stores image data during a respective capture interval, the respective capture interval interleaved within the exposure interval with multiple of the capture intervals associated with other local storage locations; reading out, after the exposure interval of each augmented pixel, the image data stored in the local storage locations of each augmented pixel during the first and second subsets of capture intervals to form a plurality of intermediate images that each have a dynamic range; and generating an image for the portion of the local area using the plurality of intermediate images, wherein the image has a higher dynamic range than each of the intermediate images.
</claims>
</document>
