<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F21/32,G06F21/62,G06F3/16,G06N20/00,G10L15/07,G10L15/18,G10L21/00,G10L21/06,G10L25/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PAYPAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
NUZZI, FRANK ANTHONY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66327480
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Hardware command device with audio privacy features
</title>

<abstract>
A hardware device may receive a command from a user and then respond to that command with information. Such commands may cause an audible response to be broadcast via speaker. A device's audio reply to a command may include sensitive details that a person may not wish to share. When a device makes such an audio reply, it may therefore divulge sensitive information to one or more other people that are in listening range. A person utilizing such a device may thus inadvertently compromise his own privacy. The present disclosure includes techniques that are usable to mitigate such privacy exposures by detecting a presence of a second person in a surrounding environment and creating a reply that omits some or all of the sensitive information that might have otherwise been broadcast by a command device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a microphone configured to receive audio sounds from a surrounding environment; a speaker configured to project audio sounds to the surrounding environment; a processor; and a computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions that are executable by the device to cause the device to perform operations comprising: detecting a presence of a first user and a second user in the surrounding environment; identifying a first account for the first user and a second account for the second user, wherein the first account and the second account are currently active accounts associated with the device; determining a first privilege level of the first user and a second privilege level of the second user for the device based on a first account configuration and a second account configuration, respectively; receiving, via the microphone, a first verbal command from the first user; determining, based on the first account configuration, that an audible reply to be broadcasted from the speaker of the device in response to the first verbal command includes a first type of information; based on the second privilege level and content of the first type of information, broadcasting, using the speaker, an audible message to the surrounding environment indicating that the audible reply to be broadcasted includes the first type of information; receiving a second verbal command from the first user indicating that an alternate audible reply is desired; creating the alternate audible reply that includes less than all of the content of the first type of information; and responsive to the second verbal command, using the speaker to broadcast the alternate audible reply to the surrounding environment.
2. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a wireless network interface, wherein the device is configured to access information from an Internet via the wireless network interface in response to the first verbal command.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the detecting the presence of the first user and the second user is based on a passive sensory input in which the device does not receive affirmative identification data from the first user and the second user.
4. The device of claim 3, wherein the passive sensory input includes background audio received by the microphone; and wherein the operations further comprise analyzing the background audio to determine that the second user is not the first user.
5. The device of claim 3, wherein the device further comprises a body heat sensor; and wherein the passive sensory input includes a heat signature of the first user received via the body heat sensor and a heat signature of the second user received via the body heat sensor.
6. The device of claim 3, wherein the passive sensory input includes a wirelessly detected presence of a device associated with the first user and a device associated with the second user.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on content of the first verbal command, one or more remote information sources necessary to formulate the audible reply; and obtaining, via a network, information from the one or more remote information sources to formulate the audible reply.
8. A method, comprising: detecting, by a device including a processor and a speaker, a presence of a first user and a presence of a second user in a surrounding environment, the first user having first privilege levels for the device and the second user having second privilege levels of the device; receiving, by the device, a command from the first user; determining, by the device, that an audible reply to be broadcasted from the speaker of the device in response to the command includes a first type of information based on the second privilege levels of the device; based on the second privilege levels and the determining that the audible reply to the command includes the first type of information, broadcasting, using the speaker of the device, an audible message to the surrounding environment indicating that the audible reply to be broadcasted includes the first type of information; receiving a second verbal command from the first user indicating that an alternate audible reply is desired; creating the alternate audible reply that includes less than all of the first type of information; and using the speaker of the device to broadcast the alternate audible reply to the surrounding environment.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the command is a verbal command received via a microphone configured to receive audio sounds from the surrounding environment.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining that the first type of information includes health information.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining that the first type of information includes financial information.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining that the first type of information includes scheduling information.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining that the audible reply to the command includes the first type of information is based further on one or more user-specified rules associated with the first user.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining that the audible reply to the command includes the first type of information is based on a machine learning data set of replies to information feedback questions.
15. The method of claim 8, wherein the determining that the audible reply to the command includes the first type of information is based further on at least a portion of the first type of information originating from a particular data source.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions that are executable by a system including a processor and a speaker to cause the system to perform operations comprising: detecting a presence of a first user and a presence of a second user in a surrounding environment; identifying a first account for the first user and a second account for the second user; determining a first privilege level of the first user and a second privilege level of the second user for the system based on a first account configuration and a second account configuration, respectively; receiving a command from the first user; determining that an audible reply to be broadcasted from the speaker of the system in response to the command includes a first type of information; based on the second privilege level and content of the first type of information, broadcasting, using the speaker of the system, an audible message to the surrounding environment indicating that the audible reply to be broadcasted includes the first type of information; receiving a second verbal command from the first user indicating that an alternate audible reply is desired; creating an alternate audible reply that includes less than all of the content of the first type of information; and using the speaker of the system to broadcast the alternate audible reply to the surrounding environment.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the determining the second privilege level is based further on a current location of the system.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the detecting the presence of the first user and the second user in the surrounding environment is based on a passive sensory input in which the first user and the second user do not affirmatively identify themselves to the system.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: determining, based on content of the command, one or more information sources necessary to formulate the audible reply; and obtaining, via a network, information from the one or more information sources; and formulating the audible reply based on the information from the one or more information sources.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the command is a verbal command, and wherein the operations further comprising parsing the verbal command to determine one or more information sources needed to formulate the audible reply.
</claims>
</document>
