<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B10/291,H04B10/564,H04B10/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
X DEVELOPMENT
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRINKLEY, DEVIN
MOISION, BRUCE
ERKMEN, BARIS IBRAHIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71517862
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Optical amplifier burst mode communication with variable duty cycle
</title>

<abstract>
An optical communication system includes an optical transmitter and one or more processors. The optical transmitter is configured to output an optical signal, and includes an average-power-limited optical amplifier, such as an erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA). The one or more processors are configured to receive optical signal data related to a received power for a communication link from a remote communication system and determine that the optical signal data is likely to fall below a minimum received power within a time interval. In response to the determination, the one or more processors are configured to determine a duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on a minimum on-cycle length and a predicted EDFA output power and operate the optical transmitter using the determined duty cycle to transmit an on-cycle power that is no less than the minimum required receiver power for error-free operation of the communication link.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An optical communication system including: an optical transmitter configured to output an optical signal, the optical transmitter including an erbium-doped fiber amplifier (EDFA); and one or more processors operatively coupled to the optical transmitter, the one or more processors being configured to: receive optical signal data related to a received power for a communication link from a remote communication system; determine that the received power is likely to fall below a minimum received power within a time interval; in response to the determination that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval, determine a duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on a minimum on-cycle length and a predicted EDFA output power; and operate the optical transmitter using the determined duty cycle to transmit the optical signal on the communication link.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and the one or more processors are configured to determine that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval based on an identified trend of the plurality of measurements over the time interval.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and the one or more processors are configured to determine that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval based on an extrapolation of a trend of the plurality of measurements into the time interval.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the duty cycle based on: a selected candidate duty cycle that has at least the minimum on-cycle length; a predicted EDFA output power for the selected candidate duty cycle; a determination that the predicted EDFA output power for the candidate duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power; and a determination that the duty cycle has a same characteristic as the candidate duty cycle when the duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to determine the duty cycle based on an accessible database of predicted EDFA output power for a plurality of duty cycles of the optical transmitter.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive updated optical signal data related to the received power for the communication link; determine an updated duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on the minimum on-cycle length and the predicted EDFA output power; and operate the optical transmitter using the updated duty cycle.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: receive updated optical signal data related to the received power for the communication link; determine that the received power will likely exceed a maximum received power in a second time interval; after determining the received power will likely exceed the maximum received power within the second time interval, determine an updated duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on the minimum on-cycle length and the predicted EDFA output power; and operate the optical transmitter using the updated duty cycle.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are configured to operate the optical transmitter to achieve a higher data transmission rate during an overshoot of the predicted EDFA output power and a lower data transmission rate during a decay of the predicted EDFA output power.
9. A method of operating an optical transmitter over a communication link, the method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors, optical signal data related to a received power for a communication link from a remote communication system; determining, by the one or more processors, that the received power is likely to fall below a minimum received power within a time interval; in response to the determination that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval, the one or more processors determine a duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on a minimum on-cycle length and a predicted EDFA output power; and operate, by the one or more processors, the optical transmitter using the determined duty cycle to transmit the optical signal on the communication link.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and determining that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval includes identifying a trend of the plurality of measurements over the time interval.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein: the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and determining that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval includes: identifying a trend of the plurality of measurements before the time interval; and extrapolating the trend into the time interval.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the duty cycle includes: selecting a candidate duty cycle that has at least the minimum on-cycle length, determining a predicted EDFA output power for the candidate duty cycle, determining whether the predicted EDFA output power for the candidate duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power, and determining that the duty cycle has a same characteristic as the candidate duty cycle when the duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the duty cycle includes accessing a database of predicted EDFA output power for a plurality of duty cycles of the optical transmitter.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, updated optical signal data related to the received power for the communication link; determining, by the one or more processors, an updated duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on the minimum on-cycle length and the predicted EDFA output power; and operating, by the one or more processors, the optical transmitter using the updated duty cycle.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving, by the one or more processors, updated optical signal data related to the received power for the communication link; determining, by the one or more processors, that the received power will likely exceed a maximum received power in a second time interval; after determining the received power will likely exceed the maximum received power within the second time interval, the one or more processors determine an updated duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on the minimum on-cycle length and the predicted EDFA output power; and operating, by the one or more processors, the optical transmitter using the updated duty cycle.
16. A non-transitory, tangible computer-readable storage medium on which computer readable instructions of a program are stored, the instructions, when executed by one or more processors of a first communication device, cause the one or more processors to perform a method, the method comprising: receiving optical signal data related to a received power for a communication link from a second communication device; determining that the received power is likely to fall below a minimum received power within a time interval; in response to the determination that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval, determining a duty cycle of an optical transmitter based on a minimum on-cycle length and a predicted EDFA output power; and operating the optical transmitter using the determined duty cycle to transmit the optical signal on the communication link.
17. The medium of claim 16, wherein the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and determining that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval includes identifying a trend of the plurality of measurements over the time interval.
18. The medium of claim 16, wherein: the optical signal data includes a plurality of measurements for received power; and determining that the received power is likely to fall below the minimum received power within the time interval includes: identifying a trend of the plurality of measurements before the time interval; and extrapolating the trend into the time interval.
19. The medium of claim 16, wherein determining the duty cycle includes: selecting a candidate duty cycle that has at least the minimum on-cycle length, determining a predicted EDFA output power for the candidate duty cycle, determining whether the predicted EDFA output power for the candidate duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power, and determining that the duty cycle has a same characteristic as the candidate duty cycle when the duty cycle will satisfy the minimum received power.
20. The medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: receiving updated optical signal data related to the received power for the communication link; determining that the received power will likely exceed a maximum received power in a second time interval; after determining the received power will likely exceed the maximum received power within the second time interval, determining an updated duty cycle of the optical transmitter based on the minimum on-cycle length and the predicted EDFA output power; and operating the optical transmitter using the updated duty cycle.
</claims>
</document>
