<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,H04L29/06,H04N19/154,H04N19/176,H04N19/59,H04N19/87
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NETFLIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
KATSAVOUNIDIS, IOANNIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68944413
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Techniques for encoding a media title while constraining quality variations
</title>

<abstract>
In various embodiments, a subsequence-based encoding application generates a convex hull of subsequence encode points based on multiple encoding points and a first subsequence included in a set of subsequences that are associated with a media title. The subsequence-based encoding application then generates a first encode list that includes multiple subsequence encode points based on the first convex hull. Notably, each subsequence encode point included in the first encode list is associated with a different subsequence. The subsequence-based encoding application selects a first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list based on a first variability constraint that is associated with a media metric. The subsequence-based encoding application then replaces the first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list with a second subsequence encode point to generate a second encode list. Finally, the subsequence-based encoding application generates an encoded media sequence based on the second encode list.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: generating a first convex hull of subsequence encode points based on a first set of encoding points and a first subsequence included in a plurality of subsequences associated with a media title; generating a first encode list that includes a plurality of subsequence encode points based on the first convex hull, wherein each subsequence encode point included in the plurality of subsequence encode points is associated with a different subsequence included in the plurality of subsequences; selecting a first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list based on a first variability constraint associated with a media metric; replacing the first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list with a second subsequence encode point based on a first bitrate associated with the second subsequence encode point to generate a second encode list; and generating a first encoded media sequence based on the second encode list, wherein at least a portion of the first encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a first endpoint device during playback of the media title.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first variability constraint specifies a maximum difference between an average value for the media metric and a worst-case value for the media metric.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the media metric comprises a bitrate, a distortion metric, a peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), a distortion level, a linear video multimethod assessment fusion (VMAF) metric, a harmonic VMAF (VMAFh) metric, or an audio quality metric.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein selecting the first subsequence encode point comprises: computing an average value for the media metric and a worst-case value for the media metric based on the first encode list; determining that a difference between the average value and the worst-case value is greater than a threshold specified in the first variability constraint; determining that the first subsequence encode point is associated with the worst-case value; and in response, selecting the first subsequence encode point.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining that the second encode list complies with the first variability constraint; generating a third encode list based on the second encode list and the first convex hull, wherein the third encode list is associated with a first average bitrate that exceeds a second average bitrate associated with the second encode list; and generating a second encoded media sequence based on the third encode list, wherein at least a portion of the second encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a second endpoint device during playback of the media title.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: computing a first slope value between a third subsequence encode point included in both the second encode list and the first convex hull and a fourth subsequence encode point included in the first convex hull; determining, based on the first slope value, that the fourth subsequence encode point should be included in a third encode list; in response, replacing the third subsequence encode point included in the second encode list with the fourth subsequence encode point to generate the third encode list; and generating a second encoded media sequence based on the third encode list, wherein at least a portion of the second encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a second endpoint device during playback of the media title.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating a first set of subsequence encode points based on the first set of encoding points and the first subsequence; determining a region that includes the first set of subsequence encode points; identifying a boundary associated with the region, wherein no subsequence encode points included in the first set of subsequence encode points are located on a first side of the boundary; and generating the first convex hull by discarding any subsequence encode points included in the first set of subsequence encode points that are not located along the boundary.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each encoding point included in the first set of encoding points specifies a different combination of a resolution and a rate control value.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first subsequence comprises a shot sequence.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the media title comprises at least one of video content and audio content.
11. One or more non-transitory computer readable media including instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the steps of: generating a first convex hull of subsequence encode points based on a first set of encoding points and a first subsequence included in a plurality of subsequences associated with a media title; generating a first encode list that includes a plurality of subsequence encode points based on the first convex hull and a second convex hull that is associated both a second subsequence included in the plurality of subsequences and a second set of encoding points; selecting a first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list based on a first variability constraint associated with a media metric; replacing the first subsequence encode point included in the first encode list with a second subsequence encode point based on a first bitrate associated with the second subsequence encode point to generate a second encode list; and generating a first encoded media sequence based on the second encode list, wherein at least a portion of the first encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a first endpoint device during playback of the media title.
12. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the first variability constraint specifies a maximum difference between an average value for the media metric and a worst-case value for the media metric.
13. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the media metric comprises a bitrate, a distortion metric, a peak signal-to-noise ratio (PSNR), a distortion level, a linear video multimethod assessment fusion (VMAF) metric, a harmonic VMAF (VMAFh) metric, or an audio quality metric.
14. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein selecting the first subsequence encode point comprises: computing a worst-case value for the media metric based on the first encode list; determining that the first encode list does not comply with the first variability constraint based on the worst-case value; determining that the first subsequence encode point is associated with the worst-case value; and in response, selecting the first subsequence encode point.
15. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, further comprising: determining that the second encode list complies with the first variability constraint; generating a third encode list based on the second encode list, the first convex hull, and the second convex hull, wherein the third encode list is associated with a first average bitrate that exceeds a second average bitrate associated with the second encode list; and generating a second encoded media sequence based on the third encode list, wherein at least a portion of the second encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a second endpoint device during playback of the media title.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, further comprising: computing a first slope value between a third subsequence encode point included in both the second encode list and the first convex hull and a fourth subsequence encode point included in the first convex hull; determining, based on the first slope value, that the fourth subsequence encode point should be included in a third encode list; in response, replacing the third subsequence encode point included in the second encode list with the fourth subsequence encode point to generate the third encode list; and generating a second encoded media sequence based on the third encode list, wherein at least a portion of the second encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a second endpoint device during playback of the media title.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the first subsequence encode point and the second subsequence encode point are included in the first convex hull.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, wherein the first encoded media sequence includes a first encoded subsequence and a second encoded subsequence, the first encoded subsequence is associated with a first encoding point, and the second encoded subsequence is associated with a second encoding point that is not equal to the first encoding point.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer readable media of claim 11, further comprising partitioning a source media sequence associated with the media title into the plurality of subsequences based on a plurality of shot changes.
20. A system, comprising: one or more memories storing instructions; and one or more processors that are coupled to the one or more memories and, when executing the instructions, are configured to: generate a first convex hull of subsequence encode points based on a first set of encoding points and a first subsequence included in a plurality of subsequences associated with a media title; generate a global convex hull based on a variability constraint associated with a first media metric, the first convex hull, and a second convex hull that is associated with a second subsequence included in the plurality of subsequences; determine a first optimized encoded media sequence based on the global convex hull and a first target metric value for the first media metric or a second media metric, wherein at least a portion of the first optimized encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a first endpoint device during playback of the media title; and determine a second optimized encoded media sequence based on the global convex hull and a second target metric value for the first media metric or the second media metric, wherein at least a portion of the second optimized encoded media sequence is subsequently streamed to a second endpoint device during playback of the media title.
</claims>
</document>
