<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/00,G07F19/00,H04W12/00,H04W12/06,H04W4/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
van Beek Faletti, Stephen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039748
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for demonstrating a personalized automated teller machine (ATM) presentation
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for demonstrating a personalized automated teller machine (ATM) presentation to a user may include: obtaining transaction data of the user via a device associated with the user; obtaining, via the one or more processors, geographic data of the user based on the transaction data; generating, via the one or more processors, ATM data based on the geographic data of the user; obtaining, via the one or more processors, user feedback data based on the ATM data, wherein the user feedback data comprises a selection of an ATM of the list of the ATMs; transmitting, to the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs, presentation data based on the transaction data and the user feedback data; and demonstrating, via the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs, the personalized ATM presentation to the user based on the presentation data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for demonstrating a personalized automated teller machine (ATM) presentation to a user, the method comprising: obtaining, via one or more processors, transaction data of the user via a device associated with the user, wherein the transaction data includes a potential user activity; obtaining, via the one or more processors, geographic data of the user based on the transaction data, wherein the geographic data of the user includes at least a geographic location associated with the potential user activity; generating, via the one or more processors, ATM data based on the geographic data of the user, wherein: the ATM data includes a list of ATMs that are within a pre-determined distance of the geographic location of the user; and each respective ATM in the list of ATMs includes: a display screen for providing an interactive interface; and at least one further display separate from the display screen that is one or more of incorporated into, positioned on, or positioned near an external casing of the respective ATM; obtaining, via the one or more processors, user feedback data based on the ATM data, wherein the user feedback data includes a selection of an ATM of the list of the ATMs; transmitting, to the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs, presentation data based on the transaction data and the user feedback data, wherein the presentation data comprises information regarding a transaction entity associated with the potential user activity; and causing the at least one further display of the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs to demonstrate the personalized ATM presentation to the user based on the presentation data.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential user activity is an activity performed by the user via the selected ATM.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the potential user activity includes at least one of depositing funds, withdrawing funds, or changing identification data of the user.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identification data of the user includes at least one of a password, a username, or an address of the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the pre-determined distance of the geographic location of the user is set by the user or determined by an algorithm.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the ATM data further includes geographic locations of the list of ATMs that are within the pre-determined distance of the geographic location of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one further display includes an augmented reality (AR) device or a virtual reality (VR) device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the personalized ATM presentation includes at least one of a logo or a theme associated with the transaction entity.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the transaction entity includes at least one of a financial services provider, an on-line resource, or a merchant.
10. A computer-implemented method for demonstrating a personalized automated teller machine (ATM) presentation to a user, the method comprising: in response to a determination, via one or more processors, of communication between a device associated with the user and an ATM, activating, via the one or more processors, the ATM, wherein the device associated with the user is configured to communicate with one or more sensors of the ATM in response to a determination that the device is within a pre-determined distance of the ATM, wherein the ATM includes: a display screen for providing an interactive interface; and at least one further display separate from the display screen that is one or more of incorporated into, positioned on, or positioned near an external casing of the ATM; and in response to the activating of the ATM: obtaining, via the one or more processors, transaction data of the user, wherein the transaction data includes a potential user activity; transmitting, via the one or more processors, a confirmation request to the device associated with the user, wherein the confirmation request includes a request for a confirmation of the potential user activity; obtaining, via the one or more processors, user feedback data based on the confirmation request, wherein the user feedback data includes at least the confirmation of the potential user activity; transmitting, to the ATM, presentation data based on the transaction data and the user feedback data, wherein the presentation data comprises includes information regarding a transaction entity associated with the potential user activity; and causing the at least one further display of the ATM to demonstrate the personalized ATM presentation to the user based on the presentation data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the one or more sensors include at least a proximity sensor.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the device associated with the user includes one or more transmitters configured to communicate with the one or more sensors.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the pre-determined distance is set by the user or determined by an algorithm.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the potential user activity is an activity performed by the user via the ATM.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the potential user activity includes at least one of depositing funds, withdrawing funds, or changing identification data of the user.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the identification data of the user includes at least one of a password, a username, or an address of the user.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the demonstrating at least one further display includes an augmented reality (AR) device or a virtual reality (VR) device.
18. The method of claim 10, wherein the personalized ATM presentation includes at least one of a logo or a theme associated with the transaction entity.
19. The method of claim 10, wherein the transaction entity includes at least one of a financial services provider, an on-line source, or a merchant.
20. A computer system for demonstrating a personalized automated teller machine (ATM) presentation to a user, comprising: a memory storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions to perform operations including: obtaining transaction data of the user via a device associated with the user, wherein the transaction data includes a potential user activity; obtaining geographic data of the user based on the transaction data, wherein the geographic data of the user includes at least a geographic location associated with the potential user activity; generating ATM data based on the geographic data of the user, wherein: the ATM data includes a list of ATMs that are within a pre-determined distance of the geographic location of the user; and each respective ATM in the list of ATMs includes: a display screen for providing an interactive interface; and at least one further display separate from the display screen that is one or more of incorporated into, positioned on, or positioned near an external casing of the respective ATM; obtaining user feedback data based on the ATM data, wherein the user feedback data includes a selection of an ATM of the list of the ATMs; transmitting, to the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs, presentation data based on the transaction data and the user feedback data, wherein the presentation data includes information regarding a transaction entity associated with the potential user activity; and causing the at least one further display of the selected ATM of the list of the ATMs to demonstrate the personalized ATM presentation to the user based on the presentation data.
</claims>
</document>
