<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/13,G06F16/17,G06F16/182,G06F17/30,G06F3/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DESAI, RONAKKUMAR N.
GLOVER, ANDREW K.
BARRETO, JOSE A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60888642
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Partial storage of large files in distinct storage systems
</title>

<abstract>
Variety of approaches to provide partial storage of large files in distinct storage systems are described. A storage service initiates operations to provide storage of large files by determining a rapid access portion and a slow access portion of a file. The rapid access portion of the file is stored in a rapid access storage system and the slow access portion of the file (or an entirety of the file) is stored in a slow access storage system. In response to an access request to the file, the rapid access portion of the file is provided from the rapid access storage system. Next, the slow access portion of the file is retrieved from the slow access storage system to be provided while providing the rapid access portion of the file.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method executed on a computing device to provide partial storage of large files in distinct storage systems, the method comprising: determining a rapid access portion and a slow access portion of a file; storing the rapid access portion of the file in a rapid access storage system and one of the slow access portion of the file and an entirety of the file in a slow access storage system; receiving an access request to the file; providing the rapid access portion of the file from the rapid access storage system; retrieving the slow access portion of the file from the slow access storage system to be provided while providing the rapid access portion of the file; determining a minimum speed threshold for providing the rapid access portion of the file and the slow access portion of the file; and reducing the delivery speed of the rapid access portion to match the minimum speed threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: adjusting the delivery speed of the rapid access portion and the slow access portion of the file to match the minimum speed threshold.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein adjusting the delivery speed of the rapid access portion and the slow access portion of the file comprises: buffering the slow access portion while delivering the rapid access portion; and transmitting the buffered slow access portion at the delivery speed that matches the minimum speed threshold.
4. The method, of claim 2, further comprising: identifying a minimum streaming speed property of the file, wherein the file includes one of: an audio file and a video file.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: storing the rapid access portion of the file in the rapid access storage system and one of the slow access portion of the file and the entirety of the file in the slow access storage system based at least on a size of the file and a last access time of the file.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: inferring a file requester based on a property of the file; determining a bandwidth for an expected delivery connection for providing the file to the file requester; and adjusting a size of the rapid access portion of the file for storage in the rapid access storage system and the slow access portion of the file for storage in the slow access storage system based on the bandwidth for the expected delivery connection.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining the bandwidth for the expected delivery connection to exceed a bandwidth threshold; increasing a buffer of the slow access portion of the file.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: determining the bandwidth for the expected delivery connection to fall below a bandwidth threshold; increasing the delivery speed of the rapid access portion of the file; and decreasing a buffer of the slow access portion of the file.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting at least one access request to the file before an expected access period; and storing the slow access portion of the file in the rapid access storage system.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: detecting no access requests to the file for the expected access period following a storage of the slow access portion of the file in the rapid access storage system; and storing the slow access portion of the file in the slow access storage system.
11. A server configured to provide partial storage of large files in distinct storage systems, the server comprising: a communication module configured to facilitate communication between a storage service and one or more devices on which a file is locally stored; a memory configured to store instructions; and a processor coupled to the memory and the communication module, the processor executing the storage service in conjunction with the instructions stored in the memory, wherein the storage service includes: an inference engine configured to: determine an expected access period for the file; determine a rapid access portion and a slow access portion of the file based at least on a size of the file and the expected access period of the file; a storage engine configured to: store the rapid access portion of the file in a rapid access storage system and one of the slow access portion of the file and the entirety of the file in a slow access storage system; receive an access request to the file; provide the rapid access portion of the file from the rapid access storage system; retrieve the slow access portion of the file from the slow access storage system to be provided while providing the rapid access portion of the file; determine a minimum speed threshold for providing the rapid access portion of the file and the slow access portion of the file; and reduce the delivery speed of the rapid access portion to match the minimum speed threshold.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the inference engine is further configured to: infer an expected access request for other file based on the access request for the file; and the storage engine is further configured to: retrieve a slow access portion of the other the from the slow access storage system.
13. The server of claim 12, wherein the inference engine is further configured to infer the expected access request for the other file based on the file and the other file being stored in a same folder.
14. The server of claim 11, wherein the inference engine is further configured to: detect an attempt to access undelivered section of the slow access portion of the file; generate an error notification; and provide the error notification.
15. The server of claim 14, wherein the error notification includes a remaining time to deliver the undelivered section of the slow access portion of the file.
16. The server of claim 11, wherein the inference engine is further configured to: detect an available bandwidth for a transmission of the rapid access portion of the file and the slow access portion of the file; and increase a delivery speed of the rapid access portion of the file and the slow access portion of the file based on the available bandwidth.
17. A method executed on a computing device to provide partial storage of large files in distinct storage systems, the method comprising: determining two or more portions of a file to be stored in two or more storage systems; determining an expected delivery speed for the entirety of the file; storing the two or more portions of the file in the two or more storage systems based on the expected delivery speed for the entirety of the file; receiving an access request to the file; providing one of the two or more portions of the file from one of the two or more storage systems with faster access speed compared to a remainder of the two or more storage systems; retrieving a remainder of the two or more portions of the file from the remainder of the two or more storage systems with slower access speeds compared to the one of the two or more storage systems while providing the one of the two or more portions of the file; determining a minimum speed threshold for providing the one of the two or more portions of the file and another of the two or more portions of the file; and reducing the delivery speed of one of the two or more portions of the file to match the minimum speed threshold.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the one of the two or more portions of the file is a header section of the file.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the remainder of the two or more portions of the file includes at least a middle section and a tail section of the file.
</claims>
</document>
