<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/27,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABRAHAMS, FARIED
DHONDSE, AMOL A.
PIKLE, ANAND
RAMACHANDRAN, KRISHNAN K.
SIVAKUMAR, GANDHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68097278
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Granting access to a blockchain ledger
</title>

<abstract>
Approaches presented herein enable automatically fulfilling an obligation under a smart contract. A block is added to a blockchain ledger in response to an event that triggers the obligation. The block includes data related to the event. Inferences related to the event are derived based on an analysis of event data and historical data incorporated in prior blocks in the blockchain ledger. Based on the inferences, a potential cause of the event is derived. Based on the potential cause, an interested stakeholder to the fulfilling of the obligation is identified. The interested stakeholder is added to a group that is allowed access to the blockchain ledger corresponding to the smart contract.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatically fulfilling an obligation under a smart contract, the method comprising: adding, by at least one server of a plurality of servers in response to an event that triggers the obligation, a block to a blockchain ledger, wherein the block includes data related to the event collected from a plurality of devices located in a vehicle, including: a telemantics device plugged into an on-board diagnostics (OBD) port of the vehicle, a monitoring camera located within the vehicle, and a smartphone located in the vehicle; deriving, by the at least one server based on an analysis of event data and historical data incorporated in prior blocks in the blockchain ledger, a set of inferences related to the event by filtering and normalizing the collected data from the plurality of devices located in the vehicle into a structured taxonomy, processing and transforming information collected over time from location-specific sources to the vehicle into a cohesive knowledge base used to derive a context when the event occurs, performing a cognitive analysis on the collected data based on the information in the cohesive knowledge base using a cognitive engine, deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis of the collected data using predictive analytics-based machine self learning, composing a structured and time-sequenced sequence of events formed from a series of the set of inferences about the structured and time-sequenced event across multiple dimensions based on the cognitive analysis, and identifying any anomalous data points in the set of inferences about the determined sequence of events, wherein the set of inferences includes an assessment of a driver of the vehicle; automatically determining, by the at least one server based on the set of inferences, a potential cause of the event; automatically identifying, by the at least one server based on the potential cause of the event, an interested stakeholder to the fulfilling of the obligation among potential stakeholders by determining a probability of the event being of interest to each of the potential stakeholders using an inverse S-shaped curve probability logit function based on a set of parameter values that represent the set of inferences; and automatically adding by the least one server the interested stakeholder to a group that is allowed access to the blockchain ledger corresponding to the smart contract.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising adding the interested stakeholder as a party to the smart contract.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the event is a vehicle incident, wherein the vehicle incident involves the vehicle driven by the driver.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the vehicle incident is a traffic collision.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising performing a cognitive analysis related to the driver and deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating an output, as a video, of a time sequence of the event based on the set of inferences and the potential cause of the event.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the information collected over time from the location-specific sources is selected from the group consisting of: weather data, road condition data, traffic pattern data, and health condition data associated with the vehicle.
8. A computer program product embodied in a computer readable storage medium that, when executed by at least one server of a plurality of servers, performs a method for automatically fulfilling an obligation under a smart contract, the method comprising: adding, in response to an event that triggers the obligation, a block to a blockchain ledger, wherein the block includes data related to the event collected from a plurality of devices located in a vehicle, including: a telemantics device plugged into an on-board diagnostics (OBD) port of the vehicle, a monitoring camera located within the vehicle, and a smartphone located in the vehicle; deriving, based on an analysis of event data and historical data incorporated in prior blocks in the blockchain ledger, a set of inferences related to the event by filtering and normalizing the collected data from the plurality of devices located in the vehicle into a structured taxonomy, processing and transforming information collected over time from location-specific sources to the vehicle into a cohesive knowledge base used to derive a context when the event occurs, performing a cognitive analysis on the collected data based on the information in the cohesive knowledge base using a cognitive engine, deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis of the collected data using predictive analytics-based machine self learning, composing a structured and time-sequenced sequence of events formed from a series of the set of inferences about the structured and time-sequenced event across multiple dimensions based on the cognitive analysis, and identifying any anomalous data points in the set of inferences about the determined sequence of events, wherein the set of inferences includes an assessment of a driver of the vehicle; automatically determining, based on the set of inferences, a potential cause of the event; automatically identifying, based on the potential cause of the event, an interested stakeholder to the fulfilling of the obligation among potential stakeholders by determining a probability of the event being of interest to each of the potential stakeholders using an inverse S-shaped curve probability logit function based on a set of parameter values that represent the set of inferences; and automatically adding the interested stakeholder to a group that is allowed access to the blockchain ledger corresponding to the smart contract.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, the method further comprising adding the interested stakeholder as a party to the smart contract.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the event is a vehicle incident, wherein the vehicle incident involves the vehicle driven by the driver.
11. The computer program product of claim 10, wherein the vehicle incident is a traffic collision.
12. The computer program product of claim 10, the method further comprising performing a cognitive analysis related to the driver and deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis.
13. The computer program product of claim 8, the method further comprising generating an output, as a video, of a time sequence of the event based on the set of inferences and the potential cause of the event.
14. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the information collected over time from the location-specific sources is selected from the group consisting of: weather data, road condition data, traffic pattern data, and health condition data associated with the vehicle.
15. A system for automatically fulfilling an obligation under a smart contract, comprising: a memory medium comprising instructions; a bus coupled to the memory medium; and a processor, on at least one server of a plurality of servers, coupled to the bus that when executing the instructions causes the system to perform a method, comprising: adding, in response to an event that triggers the obligation, a block to a blockchain ledger, wherein the block includes data related to the event collected from a plurality of devices located in a vehicle, including: a telemantics device plugged into an on-board diagnostics (OBD) port of the vehicle, a monitoring camera located within the vehicle, and a smartphone located in the vehicle; deriving, based on an analysis of event data and historical data incorporated in prior blocks in the blockchain ledger, a set of inferences related to the event by filtering and normalizing the collected data from the plurality of devices located in the vehicle into a structured taxonomy, processing and transforming information collected over time from location-specific sources to the vehicle into a cohesive knowledge base used to derive a context when the event occurs, performing a cognitive analysis on the collected data based on the information in the cohesive knowledge base using a cognitive engine, deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis of the collected data using predictive analytics-based machine self learning, composing a structured and time-sequenced sequence of events formed from a series of the set of inferences about the structured and time-sequenced event across multiple dimensions based on the cognitive analysis, and identifying any anomalous data points in the set of inferences about the determined sequence of events, wherein the set of inferences includes an assessment of a driver of the vehicle; automatically determining, based on the set of inferences, a potential cause of the event; automatically identifying, based on the potential cause of the event, an interested stakeholder to the fulfilling of the obligation among potential stakeholders by determining a probability of the event being of interest to each of the potential stakeholders using an inverse S-shaped curve probability logit function based on a set of parameter values that represent the set of inferences; and automatically adding the interested stakeholder to a group that is allowed access to the blockchain ledger corresponding to the smart contract.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor when executing the instructions further causes the system to perform the method further comprising adding the interested stakeholder as a party to the smart contract.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the event is a vehicle incident, wherein the vehicle incident involves the vehicle driven by the driver.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the vehicle incident is a traffic collision.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor when executing the instructions further causes the system to perform the method further comprising performing a cognitive analysis related to the driver and deriving the set of inferences based on the cognitive analysis.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor when executing the instructions further causes the system to perform the method further comprising generating an output, as a video, of a time sequence of the event based on the set of inferences and the potential cause of the event.
</claims>
</document>
