<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0338,H04M1/23,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUNG, JAE LARK
LEE, JAE KYU
SHIM, YOUNG TACK
</assignee>

<inventors>
JUNG, JAE LARK
LEE, JAE KYU
SHIM, YOUNG TACK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61691001
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Mobile communication terminals, their directional input units, and methods thereof
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure generally relates to various directional input units of a mobile communication terminal, where such directional input units receive a single user input or multiple concurrent user inputs and then acquires at least one selecting (user) sub-input therefrom while a terminal is in its powered-off state or its off-state. After acquiring the selecting user sub-input, a terminal runs at least one pre-selected operation which is selected from a set of multiple pre-selected operations and which matches the selecting user sub-input when a terminal powers on from its powered-off state or wakes up from its off-state. A directional input unit may acquire the selecting user sub-input from a movement of at least a portion thereof, a contact between at least a portion thereof and a user body part, or the like. As a result, a terminal can provide a user with more seamless operations.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile communication terminal comprising: a display unit which is turned off in an off-state but turned on in an on-state; and a directional input unit which receives one of a first user input and a second user input when said one of said user inputs is provided to at least a portion of said directional input unit in a first direction and a second direction, respectively, wherein said second direction is different from said first direction, wherein said terminal receives said one of said user inputs when said display unit is in said off-state, runs an activation operation of turning on said display unit in response to said received user input, without having to receive any additional user input from a user, wherein said terminal runs one of a first selected operation and a second selected operation when said received user input is one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user, and wherein said first selected operation is different from said second selected operation, whereby said terminal seamlessly runs said activation operation as well as one of said first and second selected operations in response to one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
2. The terminal of claim 1, wherein said terminal also seamlessly runs an authentication operation in response to either of said user inputs in addition to said activation operation and said one of said selected operations, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
3. The terminal of claim 1, wherein said terminal includes a top surface and a bottom surface, and wherein said first, and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said surfaces.
4. The terminal of claim 1, wherein said terminal includes a top edge, a side edge, and a bottom edge, and wherein said first and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said edges.
5. The terminal of claim 1, wherein said directional input unit includes a button at least a portion of which is movable by said user in said first and second directions.
6. The terminal of claim 1, wherein one of said first and second selected operations is one of: a picture taking operation; a video recording operation; an audio recording operation; an image viewing operation; a sound playing operation; a location monitoring operation; a health monitoring operation; a calling operation; a wireless communication operation; a messenger service operation, a short message service operation; an email processing operation; a social network service operation; an event scheduling operation; a navigation operation; an operation for connecting to a network of IoT; an operation for connecting to an appliance through said IoT network; an operation for connecting to a control system of one of a vehicle and a building; an operation for manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of one of said vehicle and building; an operation of connecting to a robot; and an operation of manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of said robot.
7. The terminal of claim 6, wherein the other of said first and second selected operations is an authentication operation for authenticating a current user.
8. A mobile communication terminal comprising: a display unit which is turned off in an off-state but turned on in an on-state; and a directional input unit which receives one of a first user input and a second user input when said one of said user inputs is provided to said directional input unit by a user when said user moves at least one body part on said input unit respectively in a first direction and a second direction while said user is contacting said input unit, wherein said second direction is different from said first direction, wherein said terminal receives said one of said user inputs when said display unit is in said off-state, runs an activation operation of turning on said display unit in response to said received, user input, without having to receive any additional user input from a user, wherein said terminal runs one of a first selected operation and a second selected operation when said received user input is one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user, and wherein said first selected operation is different from said second selected operation, whereby said terminal seamlessly runs said activation operation as well as one of said first and second selected operations in response to one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
9. The terminal of claim 8, wherein said terminal also seamlessly runs an authentication operation in response to either of said user inputs in addition to said activation operation and said one of said selected operations, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
10. The terminal of claim 8, wherein said terminal includes a top surface and a bottom surface, and wherein said first and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said surfaces.
11. The terminal of claim 8, wherein said terminal includes a top edge, a side edge, and a bottom edge, and wherein said first and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said edges.
12. The terminal of claim 8, wherein said directional input unit includes a touch screen over which said user moves said body part while maintaining said contacting.
13. The terminal of claim 8, wherein one of said first and second selected operations is one of: a picture taking operation; a video recording operation; an audio recording operation; an image viewing operation; a sound playing operation; a location monitoring operation; a health monitoring operation; a calling operation; a wireless communication operation; a messenger service operation, a short message service operation; an email processing operation; a social network service operation; an event scheduling operation; a navigation operation; an operation for connecting to a network of IoT; an operation for connecting to an appliance through said IoT network; an operation for connecting to a control system of one of a vehicle and a building; an operation for manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of one of said vehicle and building; an operation of connecting to a robot; and an operation of manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of said robot.
14. The terminal of claim 13, wherein the other of said first and second selected operations is an authentication operation for authenticating a current user.
15. A mobile communication terminal comprising: a display unit which is turned off in an off-state but turned on in an on-state; and a directional input unit which receives one of a first user input and a second user input when said one of said user inputs is provided to at least a portion of said directional input unit in a first direction and a second direction, respectively, wherein said second direction is different from said first direction, wherein said terminal receives said one of said user inputs when said display unit is in said off-state, runs an authentication operation of authenticating a user in response to said received user input, without having to receive any additional user input from said user, wherein, when said user passes said authenticating, said terminal runs one of a first selected operation and a second selected operation when said received user input is one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user, wherein said first selected operation is different, from said second, selected operation, and wherein neither of said first and second selected operations is an activation operation of turning on said display unit, whereby said terminal seamlessly runs said authentication operation as well as one of said first and second selected operations in response to one of said first and second user inputs, respectively, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
16. The terminal of claim 15, wherein said terminal also seamlessly runs an activation operation in addition to said authentication operation and said one of said first and second selected operations in response to either of said user inputs, without having to receive said additional user input from said user.
17. The terminal of claim 15, wherein said terminal includes a top surface and a bottom surface, and wherein said first and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said surfaces.
18. The terminal of claim 15, wherein said terminal includes a top edge, a side edge, and a bottom edge, and wherein said first and second directions are two different curvilinear directions defined on one of said edges.
19. The terminal of claim 15, wherein said directional input unit includes a button at least a portion of which is movable by said user in said directions.
20. The terminal of claim 15, wherein one of said first and second selected operations is one of: a picture taking operation; a video recording operation; an audio recording operation; an image viewing operation; a sound playing operation; a location monitoring operation; a health monitoring operation; a calling operation; a wireless communication operation; a messenger service operation, a short message service operation; an email processing operation; a social network service operation; an event scheduling operation; a navigation operation; an operation for connecting, to a network of IoT; an operation for connecting to an appliance through said IoT network; an operation for connecting to a control system of one of a vehicle and a building; an operation for manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of one of said vehicle and building; an operation of connecting to a robot; and an operation of manipulating one of an electric unit and an electro-mechanical unit of said robot.
</claims>
</document>
