<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01J3/00,G01N21/35,G01N21/3504,G01N21/3563,G01N33/00,G01N33/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FLIR DETECTION
</assignee>

<inventors>
JA, SHIOU-JYH
O'DELL, BRIAN D.
SHELTON, ROBERT K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60807337
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multispectral thermal imaging for detection of materials of interest
</title>

<abstract>
Imaging techniques are provided to determine the presence of trace chemicals corresponding to various materials of interest. In one example, a method includes receiving a test sample and capturing a plurality of infrared images of the test sample. Each infrared image corresponds to a different range of infrared radiation wavelengths. The method also includes determining a spectral profile of the test sample using the infrared images, comparing the determined spectral profile to a known spectral profile of a material of interest, and determining whether the material is present in the test sample based on the comparing. Additional methods and related devices are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method comprising: receiving a test sample; conductively heating the test sample to emit thermal infrared radiation from at least a portion of the test sample over a plurality of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths without decomposing the portion of the test sample into a vapor; capturing, by an infrared imager, a plurality of thermal infrared images of the portion of the test sample, wherein each infrared image corresponds to a different range of the thermal infrared radiation wavelengths; determining, by a processor, a thermal spectral profile of the test sample using the thermal infrared images, wherein the thermal spectral profile comprises a plurality of responses of the test sample provided in the thermal infrared images for the different ranges of the thermal infrared radiation wavelengths; comparing, by the processor, the determined thermal spectral profile to a known thermal spectral profile of a material of interest; and determining, by the processor, whether the material is present in the test sample based on the comparing.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising positioning a plurality of filters associated with the different ranges of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths between the test sample and the infrared imager during the capturing.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the infrared imager comprises a plurality of microbolometers having a spectral sensitivity that varies over the different ranges of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths, wherein the filters are selected to adjust relative throughput of thermal infrared radiation passed by the filters to the microbolometers according to the varying spectral sensitivity.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the positioning comprises rotating a filter wheel comprising the filters to selectively position the filters.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the infrared imager comprises a plurality of image capture devices, wherein the capturing is performed by the image capture devices and a plurality of stationary filters associated with the different ranges of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths, wherein each image capture device comprises an array of infrared sensors associated with a different corresponding one of the filters.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising: wherein a first one of the captured thermal infrared images has a first range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths determined by a first one of the filters; wherein a second one of the captured thermal infrared images has a second range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths determined by a second one of the filters; combining the first and second captured thermal infrared images to generate an additional thermal infrared image having a third range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths different from the first and second ranges; and wherein the thermal spectral profile is also determined using the generated additional thermal infrared image.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining a thermal spectral profile comprises processing pixel values and/or emissivities associated with one or more pixel locations of the thermal infrared images.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the determining whether the material is present is performed in a pixel-wise manner for the one or more pixel locations of the thermal infrared images.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the test sample is a first test sample, the method further comprising: contacting a test surface with a sampling media to capture the first test sample and a second test sample on the sampling media, wherein the first test sample has a lower vapor pressure than the second test sample, wherein the receiving comprises receiving the sampling media in a chamber of the device; heating the second test sample to at least partially vaporize; passing a vaporized portion of the second test sample to a chemical detector; and processing the vaporized portion of the second test sample using the chemical detector to determine its chemical composition.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the method is performed by a handheld portable detection device comprising a chamber, the infrared imager, and the processor.
11. A device comprising: a chamber configured to receive a test sample; a heater configured to conductive heat the test sample to emit thermal infrared radiation from at least a portion of the test sample over a plurality of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths without decomposing the portion of the test sample into a vapor; an infrared imager configured to capture a plurality of thermal infrared images of the portion of the test sample, wherein each infrared image corresponds to a different range of the thermal infrared radiation wavelengths; a plurality of filters associated with the different ranges of the thermal infrared radiation wavelengths and configured to be positioned between the test sample and the infrared imager during the capture; a memory comprising instructions; and a processor configured to execute the instructions to: determine a thermal spectral profile of the test sample using the thermal infrared images, wherein the thermal spectral profile comprises a plurality of responses of the test sample provided in the thermal infrared images for the different ranges of the thermal infrared radiation wavelengths, compare the determined thermal spectral profile to a known thermal spectral profile of a material of interest, and determine whether the material is present in the test sample based on the compared thermal spectral profiles.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the infrared imager comprises a plurality of microbolometers having a spectral sensitivity that varies over the different ranges of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths, wherein the filters are selected to adjust relative throughput of thermal infrared radiation passed by the filters to the microbolometers according to the varying spectral sensitivity.
13. The device of claim 11, further comprising: a filter wheel comprising the filters; and an actuator configured to rotate the filter wheel to selectively position the filters in response to the processor.
14. The device of claim 11, wherein the filters are stationary filters, wherein the infrared imager comprises a plurality of image capture devices, wherein each image capture device comprises an array of infrared sensors associated with a different corresponding one of the filters.
15. The device of claim 11, wherein a first one of the captured thermal infrared images has a first range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths determined by a first one of the filters; wherein a second one of the captured thermal infrared images has a second range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths determined by a second one of the filters; wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to combine the first and second captured thermal infrared images to generate an additional thermal infrared image having a third range of thermal infrared radiation wavelengths different from the first and second ranges; and wherein the thermal spectral profile is also determined using the generated additional thermal infrared image.
16. The device of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to: process pixel values and/or emissivities associated with one or more pixel locations of the thermal infrared images to determine the thermal spectral profile.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the processor is configured to execute the instructions to determine whether the material is present in a pixel-wise manner for the one or more pixel locations of the thermal infrared images.
18. The device of claim 11, wherein: the test sample is a first test sample; the chamber is configured to receive a sampling media having the first test sample and a second test sample captured thereon, wherein the first test sample has a lower vapor pressure than the second test sample; the heater is configured to cause the second test sample to at least partially vaporize; and the device further comprises a chemical detector configured to receive a vaporized portion of the second test sample and determine a chemical composition of the vaporized portion of the second test sample.
19. The device of claim 11, wherein the device is a handheld portable detection device.
20. The device of claim 11, wherein the material is an oxidizing salt.
</claims>
</document>
