<document>

<filing_date>
2017-02-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/22,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JONES, DAVID
WANTLAND, TIM
LENTZ, ALISON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63037729
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Generating interactive content items based on content displayed on a computing device
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and apparatus directed to generating one or more interactive content items based on content displayed on a computing device are described herein. In various implementations, content displayed to a user by a display of a computing device may be segmented into semantic region(s) based on respective content of the semantic region(s). User input may be received, e.g., via a biometric sensor of the computing device. The user input may indicate a desire of the user to act upon the semantic region(s). In response to the user input, interactive content item(s) corresponding to the semantic region(s) may be generated and provided for presentation to the user via output device(s) of the computing device. User interaction with a given interactive content item may cause the computing device to perform action(s) that are tailored to the semantic region that corresponds to the given interactive content item.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented using one or more processors, comprising: semantically segmenting content displayed to a user by a display of a computing device of the user into a plurality of semantic regions, each semantic region containing a respective spatial portion of the content; receiving, via a biometric sensor of the computing device, user input indicating a desire of the user to act upon one or more of the semantic regions; in response to the receiving, generating a plurality of interactive content items corresponding to the plurality of semantic regions; providing the plurality of interactive content items for presentation to the user via one or more output devices of the computing device of the user, wherein user interaction with a given interactive content item of the plurality of interactive content items causes the given interactive content item to be added to a set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user via one or more computing devices of the user, wherein the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user represent semantic regions that were previously segmented from content previously displayed by the one or more computing devices of the user; and subsequent to the adding, simultaneously rendering two or more interactive content items of the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user, wherein user interaction with a particular rendered interactive content item causes the computing device to perform one or more actions that are tailored to an entity identified based on content contained in the particular rendered interactive content item.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric sensor comprises a fingerprint sensor.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the biometric sensor is on an opposite side of the computing device from the display.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the semantic regions represented by the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user were segmented from content previously displayed by a plurality of different computing devices operated by the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the two or more interactive content items comprise a subset of the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user, and the method further comprises selecting the subset from the set based on one or more signals.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more signals include a status of an application on the computing device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more signals include a context of the user determined from one or more sensors of the computing device.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the one or more signals include content of a message exchange thread participated in by the user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user includes providing the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user on a home screen or lock screen of the computing device.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the segmenting is based on markup language underlying the content displayed to the user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more interactive content items are generated as part of a screenshot image that captures the content displayed to the user.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the content displayed to the user comprises a screenshot image captured by the user.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the display is part of a virtual reality or augmented reality computing device.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the content displayed to the user comprises content captured by a viewfinder of the computing device and displayed to the user.
15. A system comprising one or more processors, memory operably coupled with the one or more processors, a biometric sensor operably coupled with the one or more processors, and a display device operably coupled with the one or more processors, wherein the memory stores instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: semantically segment content displayed to a user by the display device into a plurality of semantic regions, each semantic region containing a respective spatial portion of the content; receive, via the biometric sensor, user input indicating a desire of the user to act upon one or more of the semantic regions; generate a plurality of interactive content items corresponding to the plurality of semantic regions; provide the plurality of interactive content items for presentation to the user via the display device, wherein user interaction with a given interactive content item of the plurality of interactive content items causes the given interactive content item to be added to a set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user via one or more computing devices of the user, wherein the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user represent semantic regions that were previously segmented from content previously displayed by the one or more computing devices of the user; and subsequent to the adding, simultaneously render two or more interactive content items of the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user, wherein user interaction with a particular rendered interactive content item causes the one or more processors to perform one or more actions that are tailored to an entity identified based on content contained in the particular rendered interactive content item.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the biometric sensor comprises a fingerprint sensor.
17. The system of claim 15, further comprising a housing, wherein the biometric sensor is on an opposite side of the housing from the display device.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more interactive content items comprise visually-emphasized versions of the one or more semantic regions.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more interactive content items comprise visually-raised versions of the one or more semantic regions.
20. At least one non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that, in response to execution of the instructions by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform the following operations: semantically segmenting content displayed to a user by a display of a computing device of the user into plurality of semantic regions, each semantic region containing a respective spatial portion of the content; receiving, via a biometric sensor of the computing device, user input indicating a desire of the user to act upon one or more of the semantic regions; in response to the receiving, generating a plurality of interactive content items corresponding to the plurality of semantic regions; providing the plurality of interactive content items for presentation to the user via one or more output devices of the computing device of the user, wherein user interaction with a given interactive content item of the plurality of interactive content items causes the given interactive content item to be added to a set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user via one or more computing devices of the user, wherein the set of interactive content items previously interactive with by the user represent semantic regions that were previously segmented from content previously displayed by the one or more computing devices of the user; and subsequent to the adding, simultaneously rendering two or more interactive content items of the set of interactive content items previously interacted with by the user, wherein user interaction with a particular rendered interactive content item causes the computing device to perform one or more actions that are tailored to an entity identified based on content contained in the particular rendered interactive content item.
</claims>
</document>
