<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61M21/00,A61M21/02,A61N5/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BROWN UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
XU JINGMING
FERNANDES, GUSTAVO E.
CARSKADON, MARY A.
VAN REEN, ELIZA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64397127
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Lighting system for circadian control and enhanced performance
</title>

<abstract>
Systems tune, control, or remediate the intrinsic Circadian clock. A light controller sets spectral distribution, intensity of a bioactive spectral band to shift or entrain circadian response to enhance performance and/or synchronize with local or expected conditions. The systems enhance performance under conditions that might be changing, disrupted, or otherwise present an irregular phase or unnatural change in the subject's circadian status, for example, due to geographically discontinuous activity or spectrally deficient workplace illumination, or due to divergent individual sleep/wake behaviors of subjects in a structured group activity. An illumination recipe that compensates for the deficiency of lighting or of participant sleep or behavior patterns, or age- or disease-related changes, to evoke, shift, or align circadian response and improve behaviors such as classroom alertness, relaxation, excitability, attention, or focus. Systems may receive sensed light values and automatically apply high- and/or low-CER illumination to effect the intended circadian phase.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for tuning, control or remediation of a biological light-responsive state, the system comprising a light controller to control an illumination source and a sensing feedback system connected to or communicating with the controller, the controller being operative to set at least one of: spectral distribution, light intensity, light directionality, light periodicity, and a bioactive spectral band, during a programmed or specified time, providing a lighting prescription to supplement ambient or other illumination experienced by a subject in a manner effective to shift or to entrain a circadian response of the subject and thereby improve the subject's performance under changing, disrupted, unnatural extended, geographically discontinuous or spectrally deficient or inappropriate lighting, applying an illumination recipe that compensates for deficiency, or shifts or enhances the circadian response in a subject, wherein circadian phase is determined from one or more actigraphy sensors or from a sensor that detects DLMO (dim light melatonin onset) in a sample of body fluid.
2. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller applies a Table of Prescriptive Settings for controlling light to synchronize a subject's timing or level of production of melatonin or other circadian effector so as to optimize at least one of alertness, cognition, physical performance, sleepiness, sleep, and restedness in accordance with a predetermined scheduled event, group activity or mission event.
3. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller provides automated control or wireless management of illumination parameters.
4. The system according to claim 3, wherein the automated control is manually adjustable by the subject or other user.
5. The system according to claim 3, wherein the automated control is not adjustable.
6. The system of claim 3 wherein at least one of timing, intensity and spectral distribution of illumination is applied to shift, or to stabilize Circadian phase.
7. The system of claim 3 which applies blue-boosted illumination for a specified time to achieve a defined Circadian phase delay.
8. The system of claim 3 which applies blue-boosted white light for several hours substantially after DLMO to achieve a Circadian phase advance; or applies a lesser intensity and duration of blue-boosted white light to achieve a phase delay over the course of one day.
9. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller applies a palliative spectral recipe to manage or reduce fatigue or tension, a medical condition such as elevated blood pressure or a psychological condition, or a mood.
10. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller controls at least one light source, but ideally two or more light sources to apply a prescribed illumination supplement timed to synchronize or phase-shift the subject's circadian state.
11. The system according to claim 1, wherein the controller receives a biofeedback signal indicative of a subject's circadian response or estimated circadian response and adjusts lighting control in accordance therewith to shift or strengthen circadian phase in support of an intended task, location or activity to be performed by the subject, wherein the subject has at least one scheduled performance such as; an athletic event or team activity; a military activity such as an army or air force mission or a naval pilot orders; a medical activity such as emergency room, surgical or obstetrical activity; an artistic activity such as a theater or concert performance; or a transportation endurance activity such as long distance trucking orj et plane travel.
12. The system according to claim 11, wherein the system is located in or conveniently movable to a designated remediation area of a structure selected from: an athletic facility, a police station, a fire station, an airport hangar, a compartment or a cabin of a truck, airplane, ship, an EMT vehicle, a bus, and a room in a hospital such as an intern's lounge or an operating room, nursing home, or an assisted living facility, and a school classroom.
13. The system according to claim 1 wherein the controller controls a blue-boosted LED light source and is in a kit in a container which is portable and further comprises instructions for installation and de-installation.
14. The system according to claim 1 including a sensor subsystem which is worn by or attached to the subject.
15. The system according to claim 14, which is eyewear, a headband, a hat, a cap, or a headset.
16. The system according to claim 14, wherein the sensor detects light experienced by the user, or a physiologic state of the user, or melatonin level in a body fluid of the user, or sleep/wake activity patterns, or other markers (hormones, secretions) indicative of circadian state or used to estimate circadian state.
17. The system according to claim 1, wherein the light is at least one LED.
18. The system according to claim 1, wherein the light directionality is direct light.
19. The system according to claim 1, wherein the light directionality is diffuse.
20. The system according to claim 1, wherein circadian phase is determined from one or more actigraphy sensors.
21. The system of claim 1, comprising an LED with blue light to provide high CER illumination.
22. The system of claim 21 further including an incandescent light element.
23. A method of treatment to shift or entrain circadian rhythm in a subject to reduce stress or tension prior to surgery or chemotherapy, the method comprising tuning a subject's circadian rhythms by applying the system according to claim 1 to deliver a light prescription dose effective to delay, advance, or entrain the subject's circadian phase.
24. The method according to claim 23, wherein is the dose is at least two hours, four hours, or eight hours of treatment for at least one treatment, applied prior to the surgery or chemotherapy.
</claims>
</document>
