<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01N33/574,G06K9/00,G06Q10/00,G16H15/00,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H50/20,G16H50/30,G16H50/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PROGENICS PHARMACEUTICALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BAKER, MARK R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60263152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network for medical image analysis, decision support system, and related graphical user interface (GUI) applications
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein is a platform and supported graphical user interface (GUI) decision-making tools for use by medical practitioners and/or their patients, e.g., to aide in the process of making decisions about a course of cancer treatment and/or to track treatment and/or the progress of a disease.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A network-based decision support system, wherein the system is a cloud-based system comprising: a processor; and a memory having instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: (i) receive and store a plurality of medical images in a database, each medical image associated with a corresponding patient; (ii) access one or more of the medical images associated with a particular patient from the database upon user request for transmission to the user for display on a user computing device; (iii) automatically analyze the one or more medical images using a machine learning algorithm; and (iv) generate a radiologist report for the particular patient according to the one or more medical images for the patient, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a whole-body scan of a first patient made with a gamma camera following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising technetium 99m methylenediphosphonate (99mTc MDP).
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of medical images in the database comprise a series of medical images of a first patient taken over time, and wherein the instructions cause the processor to determine a value of at least a first risk index for each medical image of the series, thereby tracking determined values of at least the first risk index for the first patient over time.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) scan of a first patient obtained following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising 1404 labeled with 99mTc, and a computed tomography (CT) scan of the first patient, wherein the instructions cause the processor to overlay the SPECT scan with the CT scan to create a composite image (SPECT-CT) of the first patient.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a positron emission tomography (PET) scan of a first patient obtained following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising [18F]DCFPyL, and a CT scan of the first patient, wherein the instructions cause the processor to overlay the PET scan with the CT scan to create a composite image (PET-CT) of the first patient.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a composite image of a first patient, the composite image comprising a CT scan overlaid with a nuclear medicine image obtained at substantially the same time as the CT scan and following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising a Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA) binding agent comprising a radionuclide, wherein the instructions cause the processor to automatically analyze the composite image by: (a) using the composite image to geographically identify a 3D boundary for each of one or more regions of imaged tissue within the nuclear medicine image; and (b) computing (i) a value of each of one or more risk indices or (ii) a risk map using the nuclear medicine image with the identified 3D boundaries of the one or more region(s).
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the instructions cause the processor to, for at least one risk index of the one or more risk indices, compute the value of the risk index by: determining, for each of the one or more regions, a corresponding cancerous tissue level within the region based on intensity values of the nuclear medicine image within the 3D boundary of the region; and computing the value of the risk index based on the determined cancerous tissue levels within the one or more regions.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a nuclear medicine image of a first patient following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising a radionuclide, wherein the instructions cause the processor to automatically analyze the nuclear medicine image by: (a) geographically identifying a boundary for each of one or more regions of imaged tissue within the nuclear medicine image; and (b) computing (i) a value of each of one or more risk indices or (ii) a risk map using the nuclear medicine image with the identified boundaries of the one or more region(s).
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the instructions cause the processor to, for at least one risk index of the one or more risk indices, compute the value of the risk index by: determining, for each of the one or more regions, a corresponding cancerous tissue level within the region based on intensity values of the nuclear medicine image within the boundary of the region; and computing the value of the risk index based on the determined cancerous tissue levels within the one or more regions.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions cause the processor to apply a machine learning algorithm to update a process for automatically analyzing the one or more medical images using accumulated image data in the database.
10. A method comprising performing, by a processor of a server computing device, said processor a processor of a cloud-based system, (i) to (iv) as follows: (i) receiving and storing, by the processor, a plurality of medical images in a database, each medical image associated with a corresponding patient; (ii) accessing, by the processor, one or more of the medical images associated with a particular patient from the database upon user request for transmission to the user for display on a user computing device; (iii) automatically analyzing, by the processor, the one or more medical images using a machine learning algorithm; and (iv) generating, by the processor, a radiologist report for the particular patient according to the one or more medical images for the patient, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a whole-body scan of a first patient made with a gamma camera following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising technetium 99m methylenediphosphonate (99mTc MDP).
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of medical images in the database comprise a series of medical images of a first patient taken over time, and wherein the method comprises determining a value of at least a first risk index for each medical image of the series, thereby tracking determined values of at least the first risk index over time.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the receiving and storing of the plurality of medical images comprises repeatedly receiving and storing, over time, a plurality of medical images of the first patient, each obtained at a different time, to obtain the series of medical images of the first patient.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a single-photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) scan of a first patient obtained following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising 1404 labeled with 99mTc, and a computed tomography (CT) scan of the first patient, wherein the method comprises overlaying the SPECT scan with the CT scan to create a composite image (SPECT-CT) of the first patient.
14. The method of claim 10, wherein the medical images comprises a positron emission tomography (PET) scan of a first patient obtained following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising [18F]DCFPyL, and a CT scan of the first patient, wherein the method comprises overlaying the PET scan with the CT scan to create a composite image (PET-CT) of the first patient.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a composite image of a first patient, the composite image comprising a CT scan overlaid with a nuclear medicine image acquired at substantially the same time and following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising a Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (PSMA) binding agent comprising a radionuclide, wherein the method comprises automatically analyzing the composite image by: (a) using the composite image to geographically identify a 3D boundary for each of one or more regions of imaged tissue within the nuclear medicine image; and (b) computing (i) a value of each of one or more risk indices or a (ii) risk map using the nuclear medicine image with the identified 3D boundaries of the one or more region(s).
16. The method of claim 15, wherein step (b) comprises, for at least one risk index of the one or more risk indices, computing the value of the risk index by: determining, for each of the one or more regions, a corresponding cancerous tissue level within the region based on intensity values of the nuclear medicine image within the 3D boundary of the region; and computing the value of the risk index based on the determined cancerous tissue levels within the one or more regions.
17. The method of claim 10, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a nuclear medicine image of a first patient obtained following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising a radionuclide, wherein the method comprises automatically analyzing the nuclear medicine image by: (a) geographically identifying a boundary for each of one or more regions of imaged tissue within the nuclear medicine image; and (b) computing (i) a value of each of one or more risk indices or (ii) a risk map using the nuclear medicine image with the identified boundaries of the one or more region(s).
18. The method of claim 17, wherein step (b) comprises, for at least one risk index of the one or more risk indices, computing the value of the risk index by: determining, for each of the one or more regions, a corresponding cancerous tissue level within the region based on intensity values of the nuclear medicine image within the boundary of the region; and computing the value of the risk index based on the determined cancerous tissue levels within the one or more regions.
19. The method of claim 10, comprising applying, by the processor, a machine learning algorithm to update a process for automatically analyzing the one or more medical images using accumulated image data in the database.
20. A method for tracking prostate cancer progression and treatment efficacy over time, for one or more patient(s), the method comprising: (a) repeatedly receiving and storing in a database, over time, by a processor of a computing device, said processor a processor of a cloud-based system, a plurality of medical images for each of the one or more patient(s) to obtain, for each of the one or more patient(s), a series of medical images taken over time; (b) for each of the one or more patient(s), automatically analyzing, by the processor, using a machine learning algorithm, the series of medical images for the patient to determine values of one or more risk indices for each medical image of the series, thereby tracking determined values of the one or more risk indices over a course prostate cancer progression and treatment for the patient; and (c) for each of the one or more patient(s), storing, by the processor, the determined values of the one or more risk indices for the patient for further processing or causing, by the processor, display of a graphical representation of the determined values of the one or more risk indices for the patient, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a whole-body scan of a first patient made with a gamma camera following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising technetium 99m methylenediphosphonate (99mTc MDP).
21. A cloud-based system for tracking prostate cancer progression and treatment efficacy over time, for one or more patient(s), the system comprising: a processor of the cloud-based system; and a memory having instructions stored thereon, wherein the instructions, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: (a) repeatedly receive and store in a database, over time, a plurality of medical images for each of the one or more patient(s) to obtain, for each of the one or more patient(s), a series of medical images taken over time; (b) for each of the one or more patient(s), automatically analyze, using a machine learning algorithm, the series of medical images for the patient to determine values of one or more risk indices for each medical image of the series, thereby tracking determined values of the one or more risk indices over a course prostate cancer progression and treatment for the patient; and (c) for each of the one or more patient(s), store the determined values of the one or more risk indices for the patient for further processing or cause display of a graphical representation of the determined values of the one or more risk indices for the patient, wherein the plurality of medical images comprise a whole-body scan of a first patient made with a gamma camera following administration to the first patient of an imaging agent comprising technetium 99m methylenediphosphonate (99mTc MDP).
</claims>
</document>
