<document>

<filing_date>
2017-05-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-05-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ABUTBUL, ROI
FRANCO, GUY
OHAYON, ALMOG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60243727
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Creation of fictitious identities to obfuscate hacking of internal networks
</title>

<abstract>
Introduced here are security techniques for networks. More specifically, fictitious identities (also referred to as "bogus identities") can be willfully created and injected into the network in order to obfuscate those who are not authorized to access the network. For example, such techniques may be used to befuddle hackers attempting to breach an internal network. The fictitious identities can be created by bypassing the operating system of computing device(s) residing within the network and deploying the fictitious identities within an operating system process responsible for implementing a security policy. Such action utilizes a limited amount of memory. The fictitious identities create a false visual of the network that is visible to any threat, regardless of where the threat is located in the network. Moreover, the fictitious identities may not infringe upon the topology of the network or affect the ability of authenticated users to continue using the network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for obfuscating unauthorized users attempting to penetrate an internal network, the method comprising: causing a security module to be installed on a computing device of a plurality of computing devices executing a Microsoft Windows® operating system, wherein the plurality of computing devices reside within the internal network; generating multiple fictitious identities for the internal network that cannot be used to gain access to the internal network; injecting the multiple fictitious identities by the security module into a Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS) process executed by the Microsoft Windows® operating system of each computing device within the internal network for enforcing a security policy on the computing device; determining that an unauthorized user attempted a breach of the internal network including the plurality of computing devices by enforcing the security policy on each computing device and determining that the user attempted to access one computing device of the plurality of computing devices using a fictitious identity of the multiple fictitious identities; and responsive to determining that the unauthorized user attempted the breach of the internal network, taking an action to address the attempted breach.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the LSASS process is responsible for enforcing the security policy on the computing device.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the LSASS process includes multiple valid identities, each valid identity corresponding to an authorized user permitted to access the internal network.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising notifying an administrator of the attempted breach in near real time to enable the administrator to take the action before the unauthorized user is able to breach the internal network using a valid identity.
5. A computer-implemented method for obfuscating unauthorized users attempting to penetrate a network, the method comprising: causing a security module to be installed on a computing device of a plurality of computing devices that reside within the network; generating a fictitious identity for the network; injecting the fictitious identity by the security module into an operating system process of each computing device of the plurality of computing devices within the network for enforcing a security policy on the computing device; monitoring whether the fictitious identity has been used in an attempt to access the network; and in response to determining that an entity attempted to penetrate the network using the fictitious identity to access the computing device of the plurality of computing devices within the network, identifying the entity as an unauthorized user of the network; and taking an action to address the attempted penetration.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein monitoring whether the fictitious identity has been used in the attempt to access the network comprises performing at least one of: continually monitoring attempts to access the network in real time to identify abnormalities; and periodically analyzing an access log to identify abnormalities.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein generating the fictitious identity for the network comprises: analyzing one or more valid identities to identify an identity syntax; and creating the fictitious identity in accordance with the identity syntax so that the fictitious identity is indistinguishable from the one or more valid identities.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the operating system process includes one or more valid identities corresponding to one or more authorized users of the network.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the computing device is a server or an endpoint device.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the network is an internal network associated with an enterprise.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the computing device executes a Microsoft Windows® operating system, and wherein the operating system process is a Local Security Authority Subsystem Service (LSASS).
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, further comprising notifying an administrator of the attempted penetration, and wherein the administrator is responsible for managing the network, the security module, or both.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, wherein notifying the administrator of the attempted penetration comprises performing at least one of: transmitting an email message to an email address associated with the administrator; transmitting a text message to a phone number associated with the administrator; causing a push notification to be presented by an application running on a user device associated with the administrator; and causing an alert to be generated by a software program running on a user device associated with the administrator.
14. A system for obfuscating unauthorized users attempting to penetrate a network, the system comprising: an identity database configured to store valid network identities used to facilitate a directory service for the network including a plurality of computing devices; and a security engine that, when in operation, is hosted by a virtual machine and configured to; read the valid network identities from the identity database in order to model the network, generate a fictitious network identity that does not permit access to the network, inject the fictitious network identity into each computing device of the plurality of computing devices that reside within the network for enforcing a security policy on the computing device; and identify a user as an unauthorized user attempting to penetrate the network including the plurality of computing devices by enforcing the security policy on each computing device and determining that the user attempted to access one computing device of the plurality of computing devices using the fictitious network identity injected into the one computing device.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the identity database is stored on a directory server that is accessible to all computing devices that reside within the network.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the identity database includes a valid network identity for each authorized user of the network.
17. The system of claim 14, wherein the virtual machine is physically or virtually installed on a computing device connected to the network.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the security engine is further configured to: employ one or more artificial intelligence algorithms to discover a syntax characteristic of the valid network identities, wherein discovery of the syntax characteristic allows the security engine to create fictitious network identities that appear substantially identical to the valid network identities.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein each valid network identity is suitable for one or more specific enterprise databases accessible through the network, and wherein the fictitious network entity cannot be used to gain access to any part of the network.
20. The system of claim 14, wherein each computing device executes an operating system, and wherein injecting the fictitious network identity into each computing device of the plurality of computing devices that reside within the network comprises: installing the fictitious network identity within an operating system process responsible for enforcing the security policy on each computing device.
21. The system of claim 14, wherein the security engine is further configured to, in response to identifying the unauthorized user attempting to penetrate the network, take an action to address the attempted penetration.
</claims>
</document>
