<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N3/08,H04L12/26,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
NOEL ERIC
VELARDO, JR., PATRICK
KORAL, YARON
TIRUMALA, SWAPNA BUCCAPATNAM
ZHANG, RENSHENG WANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70051782
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network security event detection via normalized distance based clustering
</title>

<abstract>
A method may include a processing system assigning samples of network traffic data to positions in a list, where each of the samples is assigned a cluster identifier corresponding to the respective position, and traversing the list, where for each position, the processing system: increments an order indicator, and when the cluster identifier is not less than the order indicator, computes a distance between a sample assigned to the position and other samples, records a cluster identifier of another sample when a distance between the sample and the other sample is less than a threshold distance, and assigns a minimum cluster identifier that is recorded to all of the samples with cluster identifiers that are recorded. The processing system may determine clusters from cluster identifiers in the list after the traversing and identify at least one cluster as representing anomalous network traffic data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: assigning, by a processing system including at least one processor, each of a plurality of samples of network traffic data to a respective position in a list, wherein each of the plurality of samples is assigned one of a plurality of cluster identifiers corresponding to the respective position in the list; traversing, by the processing system, the list, wherein for each position in the list, the traversing comprises: incrementing an order indicator; determining if a cluster identifier of the plurality of cluster identifiers for a sample of the plurality of samples assigned to the position is less than the order indicator; shifting to a next position in the list when the cluster identifier is less than the order indicator; or when the cluster identifier is not less than the order indicator: computing a distance between the sample assigned to the position and all other samples in the plurality of samples; recording a cluster identifier of another one of the plurality of samples when a distance between the sample assigned to the respective position and the another one of the plurality of samples is less than a threshold distance, wherein the threshold distance is based upon an aggregate normalized distance associated with a feature space of the plurality of samples and a number of the plurality of samples; and selecting a minimum cluster identifier among the cluster identifiers that are recorded, for assignment to all other cluster identifiers that are recorded; determining, by the processing system, a plurality of clusters of the plurality of samples from cluster identifiers remaining in the list after the traversing; and identifying, by the processing system, at least one of the plurality of clusters as representing anomalous network traffic data.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining, by the processing system, the plurality of samples, each of the plurality of samples associated with a plurality of dimensions of the feature space; calculating, by the processing system for each of the plurality of dimensions, a respective one of a plurality of normalized distances, wherein each of the plurality of normalized distances comprises a difference between a maximum value and a minimum value for features from the plurality of samples associated with a feature type of a respective one of the plurality of dimensions, divided by one less than the number of the plurality of samples; and determining, by the processing system, the aggregate normalized distance associated with the feature space and the number of the plurality of samples, wherein the aggregate normalized distance comprises a product of the plurality of normalized distances divided by the one less than the number of the plurality of samples.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein a number of the plurality of dimensions is between two and seven.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the threshold distance comprises a multiple of the aggregate normalized distance.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the threshold distance is between 1.5 and 8 times the aggregate normalized distance.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of samples of the network traffic data is derived from a first plurality of domain name system traffic records.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the plurality of samples of the network traffic data comprises compressed vector representations of input aggregate vectors generated via an encoder-decoder neural network, wherein each input aggregate vector comprises a plurality of features derived from the first plurality of domain name system traffic records.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the encoder-decoder neural network is to encode the input aggregate vectors as the compressed vector representations and to decode the compressed vector representations as reconstructed vectors.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the compressed vector representations comprise between two and four features of the plurality of features.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein each input aggregate vector comprises aggregate information associated with domain name system traffic for one of a plurality of domain name system resolvers over a designated time period.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the encoder-decoder neural network is trained with a plurality of aggregate vectors generated from a second plurality of domain name system traffic records.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: performing at least one remedial action in response to the identifying the at least one of the plurality of clusters as representing the anomalous network traffic data.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the performing the at least one remedial action comprises: providing a graph comprising the plurality of clusters for presentation via at least one display.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the providing the graph further comprises: generating at least one visual identifier for at least one of the plurality of clusters for the graph; and providing the at least one visual identifier in the graph.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the graph comprises a plurality of dimensions of the feature space.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the feature space comprises: two dimensions of the plurality of dimensions; or three dimensions of the plurality of dimensions.
17. The method of claim 12, wherein the performing the at least one remedial action comprises: obtaining a first label for a first one of the at least one of the plurality of clusters, the first label associated with a first network traffic anomaly type; detecting an additional sample of the network traffic data associated with the first one of the at least one of the plurality of clusters, wherein the additional sample of the network traffic data and the plurality of samples of the network traffic data are derived from domain name service traffic records, wherein the first network traffic anomaly type comprises anomalous domain name system traffic; and performing at least one of: forwarding a domain name system query from a source associated with the additional sample of the network traffic data to a domain name system authoritative server that is designated to process the anomalous domain name system traffic; or dropping the domain name system query.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the detecting the additional sample of the network traffic data associated with the first one of the at least one of the plurality of clusters comprises: determining that a distance between the additional sample of the network traffic data and the first one of the at least one of the plurality of clusters is less than the threshold distance.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processing system including at least one processor, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: assigning each of a plurality of samples of network traffic data to a respective position in a list, wherein each of the plurality of samples is assigned one of a plurality of cluster identifiers corresponding to the respective position in the list; traversing the list, wherein for each position in the list, the traversing comprises: incrementing an order indicator; determining if a cluster identifier of the plurality of cluster identifiers for a sample of the plurality of samples assigned to the position is less than the order indicator; shifting to a next position in the list when the cluster identifier is less than the order indicator; or when the cluster identifier is not less than the order indicator: computing a distance between the sample assigned to the position and all other samples in the plurality of samples; recording a cluster identifier of another one of the plurality of samples when a distance between the sample assigned to the respective position and the another one of the plurality of samples is less than a threshold distance, wherein the threshold distance is based upon an aggregate normalized distance associated with a feature space of the plurality of samples and a number of the plurality of samples; and selecting a minimum cluster identifier among the cluster identifiers that are recorded, for assignment to all other cluster identifiers that are recorded; determining a plurality of clusters of the plurality of samples from cluster identifiers remaining in the list after the traversing; and identifying at least one of the plurality of clusters as representing anomalous network traffic data.
20. A device comprising: a processing system including at least one processor; and a computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by the processing system, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: assigning each of a plurality of samples of network traffic data to a respective position in a list, wherein each of the plurality of samples is assigned one of a plurality of cluster identifiers corresponding to the respective position in the list; traversing the list, wherein for each position in the list, the traversing comprises: incrementing an order indicator; determining if a cluster identifier of the plurality of cluster identifiers for a sample of the plurality of samples assigned to the position is less than the order indicator; shifting to a next position in the list when the cluster identifier is less than the order indicator; or when the cluster identifier is not less than the order indicator: computing a distance between the sample assigned to the position and all other samples in the plurality of samples; recording a cluster identifier of another one of the plurality of samples when a distance between the sample assigned to the respective position and the another one of the plurality of samples is less than a threshold distance, wherein the threshold distance is based upon an aggregate normalized distance associated with a feature space of the plurality of samples and a number of the plurality of samples; and selecting a minimum cluster identifier among the cluster identifiers that are recorded, for assignment to all other cluster identifiers that are recorded; determining a plurality of clusters of the plurality of samples from cluster identifiers remaining in the list after the traversing; and identifying at least one of the plurality of clusters as representing anomalous network traffic data.
</claims>
</document>
