<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-11-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R19/32,G01R31/02,G01R31/34,G01R35/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
LU, DAN THO
WILSON, RONALD W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
52829887
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Temperature compensation of insulation monitoring for rotating machines
</title>

<abstract>
A system includes a monitoring and/or protection system that includes an insulation derivation circuit. The insulation derivation circuit is configured to derive a first temperature compensation curve based on a first temperature and a first current, and the monitoring and/or protection system is configured to communicatively couple to a first current sensor configured to sense the first current traversing a first phase of a stator winding of a motor, a generator, or a combination thereof. The insulation derivation circuit is also configured to communicatively couple to a first temperature sensor configured to sense the first temperature of the stator when the stator is energized, and the temperature compensation curve is configured to map a temperature to a leakage dissipation factor.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions configured to: derive, via a monitoring and/or protection system comprising an insulation derivation circuit, an original current measurement based on a signal from a current sensor sensing a current traversing a stator winding of a motor, a generator, or a combination thereof by comparing a phase of the current sensed by the current sensor with a phase of a voltage associated with the current and sensed via a line voltage sensor; derive, via the monitoring and/or protection system, an original temperature measurement based on a temperature signal from a temperature sensor disposed in a stator comprising the stator winding and configured to sense a temperature when the stator is energized; and derive, via the monitoring and/or protection system, an original insulation condition based on the original current measurement and the original temperature measurement.
2. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to: derive a present current measurement based on a second signal from the current sensor sensing a current traversing the stator winding of the motor, the generator, or the combination thereof; derive a present temperature measurement based on a second temperature signal from the temperature sensor; and derive a present insulation condition based on the present current measurement and the present temperature measurement; and compare the present insulation condition to the original insulation condition to determine a degradation factor.
3. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 2, wherein comparing the present insulation condition to the original insulation condition includes using a temperature compensation curve.
4. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to derive the original insulation condition using a neural network, a genetic algorithm, an expert system, or a combination thereof.
5. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to derive the original insulation condition using a polynomial function fit curve wherein the function is fit to a curve on a graph with a dissipation factor as an ordinate and a temperature as an abscissa.
6. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are embodied on a rack-mountable card.
7. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 1, wherein the instructions are configured to transfer the original insulation condition to an external storage location.
8. A method, comprising: deriving, via a monitoring and/or protection system comprising an insulation derivation circuit, an original current measurement based on a signal from a current sensor sensing a current traversing a stator winding of a motor, a generator, or a combination thereof by comparing a phase of the current sensed by the current sensor with a phase of a voltage associated with the current and sensed via a line voltage sensor; deriving, via the monitoring and/or protection system, an original temperature measurement based on a temperature signal from a temperature sensor disposed in a stator comprising the stator winding and configured to sense a temperature when the stator is energized; and deriving, via the monitoring and/or protection system, an original insulation condition based on the original current measurement and the original temperature measurement.
9. The method of claim 8, comprising: deriving a present current measurement based on a second signal from the current sensor sensing a current traversing of the stator winding of the motor, the generator, or the combination thereof; deriving a present temperature measurement based on a second temperature signal from the temperature sensor; and deriving a present insulation condition based on the present current measurement and the present temperature measurement; and comparing the present insulation condition to the original insulation condition to determine a degradation factor.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein deriving an original current measurement, deriving an original temperature measurement, or any combination thereof comprises deriving for a learning period, wherein the learning period begins at a startup of the motor, the generator, or combination thereof within the stator, and ends after a user-defined time period.
11. A system, comprising: a current sensor configured to sense a current traversing a stator winding of a motor, a generator, or a combination thereof; a temperature sensor disposed in a stator comprising the stator winding and configured to sense a temperature when the stator is energized; and an insulation derivation circuit comprising a processor communicatively coupled to the current sensor and the temperature sensor, and wherein the processor is configured to: derive an original current measurement based on a signal from the current sensor by comparing a phase of the current sensed by the current sensor with a phase of a voltage associated with the current and sensed via a line voltage sensor; derive an original temperature measurement based on a temperature signal from the temperature sensor; and derive an original insulation condition of an insulation of the stator winding based on the original current measurement and the original temperature measurement.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to: derive a present current measurement based on a second signal from the current sensor sensing a current traversing the first phase of the stator winding of the motor, the generator, or the combination thereof; derive a present temperature measurement based on a second temperature signal from the temperature sensor; and derive a present insulation condition for the insulation of the first phase of the stator winding based on the present current measurement and the present temperature measurement; and compare the present insulation condition to the original insulation condition to determine a degradation factor for the insulation of the first phase of the stator winding.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the processor is configured to compare the present insulation condition to the original insulation condition using a temperature compensation curve.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to derive the original insulation condition using a neural network, a genetic algorithm, an expert system, or a combination thereof.
15. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is configured to derive the original insulation condition using a polynomial function fit curve wherein the function is fit to a curve on a graph with a dissipation factor as an ordinate and a temperature as an abscissa.
16. The system of claim 11, wherein the insulation derivation circuit is configured to transfer the original insulation condition derived by the processor to an external storage location.
17. The system of claim 11, comprising: a second current sensor configured to sense a second current traversing a second stator winding of the motor, the generator, or the combination thereof and generate a second signal based upon the sensed second current; and a second temperature sensor disposed in the stator comprising the second stator winding and configured to sense a second temperature when the stator is energized and generate a second temperature signal based upon the sensed second temperature, wherein the processor of the insulation derivation circuit is communicatively coupled to the second current sensor and the second temperature sensor.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is configured to: derive a second original current measurement based on the second signal from the second current sensor; derive a second original temperature measurement based on the second temperature signal from the second temperature sensor; and derive a second original insulation condition for an insulation of the second stator winding based on the second original current measurement and the second original temperature measurement.
19. The system of claim 11, wherein the current sensor comprises a high sensitivity current transducer (HSCT), a high voltage sensor (HVS), or a combination thereof.
</claims>
</document>
