<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60R21/0134,B60W10/04,B60W10/184,B60W10/20,B60W10/30,B60W30/08,B60W30/09,B60W30/095,B60W50/00,B60W50/14,G05D1/00,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
TOFTE, NATHAN
NAVE, COLE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63833106
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for reconstruction of a vehicular crash
</title>

<abstract>
A system for detecting a vehicular collision (i) receives occupant data from at least one internal sensor; (ii) receives external data from at least one external sensor; (iii) determines positional information for at least one occupant of a vehicle; and (iv) generates a virtual reconstruction of the vehicle collision. The virtual reconstruction indicates a severity of vehicle damage and a severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision. The system may also utilized vehicle occupant positional data, and internal and external sensor data to detect potential imminent vehicle collisions, take corrective actions, automatically engage autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle systems, and/or perform at least one action to reduce a severity of a potential injury.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer system for reconstructing a vehicle collision, the computer system comprising at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the at least one processor is programmed to: receive internal data from at least one internal sensor of a vehicle, the internal data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; receive external data from at least one external sensor, the external data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; determine positional information for at least one occupant of a vehicle at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data; and generate a virtual reconstruction of the vehicle collision, the virtual reconstruction indicating a severity of vehicle damage and a severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to determine the severity of vehicle damage and the severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision based upon at least one of the internal data, the external data, and the positional information for the at least one occupant of the vehicle.
3. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to determine a position and a direction of facing of the at least one occupant of the vehicle at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
4. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to determine occupant skeletal positioning for the at least one occupant at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
5. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to determine a size of the at least one occupant based upon the internal data.
6. The computer system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to automatically engage an autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle system to mitigate damage caused by the vehicle collision.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle system is related to at least one of driver alertness monitoring, driver responsiveness monitoring, pedestrian detection, artificial intelligence, a back-up system, a navigation system, a positioning system, a security system, an anti-hacking measure, a theft prevention system, and remote vehicle location determination.
8. A computer-based method for reconstructing a vehicle collision, the method implemented on a vehicle computer device including at least one processor in communication with at least one memory device, the method comprising: receiving internal data from at least one internal sensor of the vehicle, the internal data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; receiving external data from at least one external sensor, the external data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; determining, by the vehicle computer device, positional information for at least one occupant of the vehicle at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data; and generating a virtual reconstruction of the vehicle collision, the virtual reconstruction indicating a severity of damage to the vehicle and a severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining the severity of vehicle damage and the severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision based upon at least one of the internal data, the external data, and the positional information for the at least one occupant of the vehicle.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining a position and a direction of facing of at least one occupant of the vehicle at least one of before, during, and after vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
11. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining occupant skeletal positioning for the at least one occupant at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining a size of the at least one occupant based upon the internal data.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising automatically engaging an autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle system to mitigate damage caused by the vehicle collision.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the autonomous or semi-autonomous vehicle system is related to at least one of driver alertness monitoring, driver responsiveness monitoring, pedestrian detection, artificial intelligence, a back-up system, a navigation system, a positioning system, a security system, an anti-hacking measure, a theft prevention system, and remote vehicle location determination.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions embodied thereon, wherein when executed by a processor coupled to at least memory device, the computer-executable instructions cause the processor to: receive internal data from at least one internal sensor of the vehicle, the internal data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; receive external data from at least one external sensor, the external data including data from at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision; determine positional information for at least one occupant of the vehicle at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data; and generate a virtual reconstruction of the vehicle collision, the virtual reconstruction indicating a severity of vehicle damage and a severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to determine the severity of vehicle damage and the severity of injury to the at least one occupant caused by the vehicle collision based upon at least one of the internal data, the external data, and the positional information for the at least one occupant of the vehicle.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to determine a position and a direction of facing of the at least one occupant of the vehicle at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the computer-executable instructions further cause the processor to determine occupant skeletal positioning for the at least one occupant at least one of before, during, and after the vehicle collision based upon the internal data.
</claims>
</document>
