<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G10L15/22,H04M1/03,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JO, SEOYOUNG
LEE, BEOMSEOK
CHOI, CHANGHWAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66949733
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Electronic device and control method thereof
</title>

<abstract>
A device and method for responding to a user voice including an inquiry by outputting a response to the user's voice through a speaker and providing a guide screen including a response to the user's voice.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of controlling an electronic device, the method comprising: establishing a call connection to a telephone number based on receiving a user input; receiving a voice of a user while performing a call; acquiring status information of the electronic device using a sensor; transmitting the status information of the electronic device and the voice of the user to an external server corresponding to the telephone number; receiving from the external server, information on the voice and information on an image that are acquired, based on the voice of the user and the status information of the electronic device, by the external server processing an artificial intelligence algorithm; and outputting a response to the voice of the user through a speaker based on the information on the voice and providing a guide screen including the response to the voice of the user on a screen of the electronic device based on the information on the image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving additional voice of the user while the guide screen is provided on the screen of the electronic device; transmitting the additional voice of the user to the external server; receiving, from the external server, additional information on the additional voice and additional information on an additional image that are acquired by inputting the additional voice of the user to the artificial intelligence algorithm; and outputting an additional audio response to the additional voice of the user through the speaker based on the additional information on the additional voice and providing an additional visual response to the additional voice of the user on the guide screen based on the additional information on the additional image.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: transmitting, to the external server, the image according to a user command while the guide screen is being provided; receiving, from the external server, additional information on the voice and additional information on the image; and outputting an additional audio response through the speaker based on the additional information on the voice of the user and providing an additional visual response to the voice of the user on the guide screen based on the additional information on the image.
4. The method of claim 1, the further comprising: in response to the call connection to the telephone number being established, executing an artificial intelligence dedicated program to provide the response to the voice of the user as an audible voice and a visual image.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: receiving additional voice of the user while the guide screen is being provided on the screen of the electronic device; and registering information relating to the additional voice of the user to an application that interworks with the artificial intelligence dedicated program.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to a command to register the telephone number being input, registering the telephone number and the external server corresponding to the telephone number.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the guide screen comprises at least one icon, and wherein the method further comprises: in response to an icon of the at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, providing information corresponding to the icon on the guide screen.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: in response to a second icon of the at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, stopping the call connection with the telephone number and establishing a new call connection with a new telephone number corresponding to the second icon.
9. The method of claim 7, further comprising: in response to a second icon of at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, providing a UI to transmit information provided to the guide screen to another electronic device.
10. An electronic device comprising: a display; a speaker; a microphone; a communication unit; a memory storing computer-readable instructions; and a processor electrically connected to the display, the speaker, the microphone, the communication unit, and the memory, wherein the processor when executing the computer-readable instructions is configured to control the electronic device to: establish a call connection to a telephone number based on receiving a user input, receive a voice of a user while performing a call, acquire status information of the electronic device using a sensor, control the communication unit to transmit the status information of the electronic device and the voice of the user to an external server corresponding to the telephone number, receive from the external server, information on the voice and information on an image that are acquired, based on the voice of the user and the status information of the electronic device, by the external server processing an artificial intelligence algorithm, and output a response to the voice of the user through the speaker based on the information on the voice and control the display to provide a guide screen including the response to the voice of the user based on the information on the image.
11. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive additional voice of the user while the guide screen is provided on the display, control the communication unit to transmit the additional voice of the user to the external server, receive from the external server additional information on the additional voice and additional information on an additional image that are acquired by inputting the additional voice of the user to the artificial intelligence algorithm, output an additional audio response to the additional voice of the user through the speaker based on the additional information on the additional voice, and control the display to provide an additional visual response to the additional voice of the user on the guide screen based on the additional information on the additional image.
12. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: control the communication unit to transmit, to the external server, the image according to a user command while the guide screen is being provided, receive, from the external server, additional information on the voice and additional information on the image, output an additional audio response through the speaker based on the additional information on the voice of the user, and control the display to provide an additional visual response to the voice of the user on the guide screen based on the additional information on the image.
13. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor, in response to the call connection to the telephone number being established, executes an artificial intelligence dedicated program to provide the response to the voice of the user as an audible voice and a visual image.
14. The electronic device of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive an additional voice of the user while the guide screen is being provided on the display of the electronic device, and register information relating to the additional voice of the user to an application that interworks with the artificial intelligence dedicated program.
15. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor, in response to a command to register the telephone number being input, registers the telephone number and the external server corresponding to the telephone number.
16. The electronic device of claim 10, wherein the guide screen comprises at least one icon, and wherein the processor, in response to an icon of at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, controls the display to provide information corresponding to the icon on the guide screen.
17. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the processor, response to a second icon of at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, stops the call connection with the telephone number and establishes a new call connection with a new telephone number corresponding to the second icon.
18. The electronic device of claim 16, wherein the processor, in response to a second icon of at least one icon included in the guide screen being selected, controls the display to provide a UI to transmit information provided to the guide screen to another electronic device.
</claims>
</document>
