<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L21/00,H01L21/02,H01L21/285,H01L21/768,H01L23/532
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, YIHONG
DUAN, ZIQING
GANDIKOTA, SRINIVAS
JIANG, SHISHI
MALLICK, ABHIJIT BASU
WU, YONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64562219
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Seamless tungsten fill by tungsten oxidation-reduction
</title>

<abstract>
Methods for filling a substrate feature with a seamless tungsten fill are described. The methods include depositing a tungsten film, oxidizing the tungsten film to a tungsten oxide pillar, reducing the tungsten oxide film to a seamless tungsten gapfill and optionally depositing additional tungsten on the tungsten gapfill.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of substrate processing comprising: providing a substrate with a first substrate surface of a first material and a second substrate surface of a second material, the substrate having at least one feature with a sidewall and a bottom, the sidewall formed by the first substrate surface and the bottom formed by the second substrate surface; forming a tungsten film on the substrate, the tungsten film having a seam formed within the feature and an overburden formed on the first substrate surface outside the feature; planarizing the substrate to remove the overburden from the first substrate surface so that a top of the tungsten film is about coplanar with the first substrate surface outside the feature; oxidizing the tungsten film to form a tungsten oxide pillar which extends from the at least one feature without a seam; reducing the tungsten oxide pillar to tungsten, the tungsten forming a substantially seamless tungsten gapfill within the at least one feature so that a top of the tungsten gapfill is below the first surface outside of the feature; and selectively depositing additional tungsten on the tungsten gapfill to raise the top of the tungsten gapfill to be substantially coplanar with the first substrate surface outside of the feature, selectively depositing additional tungsten comprises depositing a silicon film on the tungsten gapfill and exposing the silicon film to a tungsten halide to convert the silicon film to tungsten.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the first material and the second material comprises a dielectric material and the other of the first material and the second material comprises a conductive material.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein formation of the tungsten film is performed by atomic layer deposition.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the seam formed within the at least one feature is closed.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein a top of the seam formed within the at least one feature is above the sidewall so that the top of the seam is removed upon planarizing.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the tungsten film is oxidized through thermal oxidation.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the tungsten film is oxidized through plasma oxidation.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein reducing the tungsten oxide pillar comprises a thermal reduction process.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein reducing the tungsten oxide pillar comprises a plasma reduction process.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein after reducing the tungsten oxide pillar, a top of the tungsten gapfill is within ±10 Å of being coplanar with the first substrate surface outside of the feature.
11. A method of substrate processing comprising: providing a substrate with at least one feature formed in a substrate surface, the feature extending a distance from the substrate surface and having a sidewall and a bottom, the sidewall of the feature and the substrate surface comprising a first material and the bottom comprising a second material different from the first material; forming a tungsten film on the substrate so that there is a void within the tungsten film within the at least one feature and a tungsten overburden formed on the substrate surface; planarizing the substrate to remove the tungsten overburden from the substrate surface so that a top of the tungsten film is substantially coplanar with the substrate surface; oxidizing the tungsten film to form a pillar of tungsten oxide extending from the at least one feature without a seam; and reducing the pillar of tungsten oxide to form a substantially seamless tungsten gapfill within the at least one feature where a top of the tungsten gapfill is below the substrate surface; and selectively depositing additional tungsten to the tungsten gapfill to raise the top of the tungsten gapfill to be substantially coplanar with the substrate surface outside of the feature, selectively depositing additional tungsten comprises depositing a silicon film on the tungsten gapfill and exposing the silicon film to a tungsten halide to convert the silicon film to tungsten.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein formation of the tungsten film is performed by one or more of an atomic layer deposition process or a chemical vapor deposition process.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the tungsten film is oxidized through one or more of a thermal oxidation process or a plasma oxidation process.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein reducing the pillar of tungsten oxide occurs through one or more of a thermal reduction process or a plasma reduction process.
15. A method of substrate processing comprising: providing a substrate with a first substrate surface of a first material and a second substrate surface of a second material, the first material comprising a dielectric material and the second material comprising a conductive material, the substrate having at least one feature with a sidewall and a bottom, the sidewall formed by the first substrate surface and the bottom formed by the second substrate surface; forming a tungsten film on the substrate by atomic layer deposition, the tungsten film having a closed seam formed within the feature and an overburden formed on the first substrate surface outside the feature, a top of the seam being above the sidewall; planarizing the substrate to remove the overburden from the first substrate surface so that a top of the tungsten film is about coplanar with the first substrate surface outside the feature and the top of the seam is removed; oxidizing the tungsten film by a thermal oxidation process or a plasma oxidation process to form a tungsten oxide pillar which extends from the feature without a seam; reducing the tungsten oxide pillar to tungsten by a thermal reduction process or a plasma reduction process, the tungsten forming a substantially seamless tungsten gapfill within the feature, and a top of the tungsten gapfill being less than or equal to about 10 Å below the first substrate surface outside of the feature; and depositing additional tungsten on the tungsten gapfill to raise the top of the tungsten gapfill to be substantially coplanar with the first substrate surface outside of the feature by depositing a silicon film on the tungsten gapfill and exposing the silicon film to a tungsten halide to convert the silicon film to tungsten.
</claims>
</document>
