<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N17/00,H04N5/361,H04N5/367,H04N5/369,H04N5/374,H04N5/378
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANON
</assignee>

<inventors>
WADA, YOICHI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64738457
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Imaging apparatus, imaging system, moving object, and manufacturing method for imaging apparatus
</title>

<abstract>
In an imaging apparatus, each of a plurality of pixels has a first semiconductor area having a first conductivity type, a floating diffusion area, and a transfer gate positioned between the first semiconductor area and the floating diffusion area. In a part of the plurality of pixels, a partial area of the first semiconductor area receives a potential supplied from a contact. The part of the plurality of pixels further has a second semiconductor area having a second conductivity type positioned between the partial area and the transfer gate in a planar view.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An imaging apparatus comprising a plurality of pixels on a semiconductor substrate, wherein each of the plurality of pixels has a first semiconductor area having a first conductivity type, a floating diffusion area having the first conductivity type, and a transfer gate positioned between the first semiconductor area and the floating diffusion area on a surface of the semiconductor substrate, wherein, in a part of the plurality of pixels, a partial area of the first semiconductor area receives a potential supplied from a contact, and wherein each of the part of the plurality of pixels further has a second semiconductor area having a second conductivity type in an area between the first semiconductor area and the surface and between the partial area and the transfer gate in a planar view.
2. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein a potential is supplied from the contact to a third semiconductor area between the first semiconductor area and the surface, and the third semiconductor area has the first conductivity type and an impurity concentration higher than that of the first semiconductor area.
3. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a line connected to the contact, wherein the line passes above the first semiconductor areas of the part of the plurality of pixels.
4. The imaging apparatus according to claim 2, further comprising a line connected to the contact, wherein the line passes above the first semiconductor areas of the part of the plurality of pixels.
5. The imaging apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the line passes above the transfer gate of each of the part of the plurality of pixels.
6. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, further comprising a plurality of lines, wherein the contact of a first pixel of the part of the plurality of pixels receives a potential from a first line of the plurality of lines, wherein the contact of a second pixel of the part of the plurality of pixels receives a potential from a second line of the plurality of lines, and wherein a value of the potential of the first line is different from a value of the potential of the second line.
7. The imaging apparatus according to claim 5, wherein each of the part of the plurality of pixels further has a plurality of connection lines positioned at a height between the plurality of lines and the contact, wherein the connection lines in the first pixel overlap the first line and the second line in a planar view, and wherein the connection lines in the second pixel overlap the first line and the second line in a planar view.
8. The imaging apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the connection lines in the first pixel is connected to the first line without connecting to the second line, and wherein the connection lines in the second pixel is connected to the second line without connecting to the first line.
9. The imaging apparatus according to claim 6, wherein the connection lines in the first pixel overlap the first line, the second line, and the contact in the first pixel in a planar view, and wherein the connection lines in the second pixel overlap the first line, the second line, and the contact in the second pixel in a planar view.
10. The imaging apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the connection lines in the first pixel overlap the first line, the second line, and the contact in the first pixel in a planar view, and wherein the connection lines in the second pixel overlap the first line, the second line, and the contact in the second pixel in a planar view.
11. The imaging apparatus according to claim 7, wherein the connection lines extend in a direction intersecting with a direction of extension of the first line and the second line.
12. The imaging apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the connection lines extend in a direction intersecting with a direction of extension of the first line and the second line.
13. The imaging apparatus according to claim 6, wherein each of the plurality of pixels has an amplification transistor configured to output a signal corresponding to a potential of the floating diffusion area, wherein the imaging apparatus further includes a signal line, and wherein the amplification transistor in the first pixel outputs a signal based on a potential of the first line to the signal line.
14. The imaging apparatus according to claim 13, wherein the amplification transistor in the second pixel outputs a signal based on a potential of the second line to the signal line.
15. The imaging apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the first semiconductor area of the part of the plurality of pixels is light-shielded, and wherein the first semiconductor area of other the part of the plurality of pixels accumulates electric charges corresponding to incident light.
16. An imaging system comprising: the imaging apparatus according to claim 1, and an anomaly detection unit configured to detect presence or absence of a failure in the imaging apparatus by using signals output from the part of the plurality pixels.
17. A moving object comprising: the imaging apparatus according to claim 1; a distance information obtaining unit configured to obtain distance information from a parallax image to a target object based on a signal from the imaging apparatus; and a control unit configured to control the moving object based on the distance information.
18. A manufacturing method for an imaging apparatus including a plurality of pixels on a semiconductor substrate, wherein each of the plurality of pixels has a first semiconductor area having a first conductivity type, a floating diffusion area having the first conductivity type, and a transfer gate positioned between the first semiconductor area and the floating diffusion area on a surface of the semiconductor substrate, the manufacturing method comprising: forming a contact configured to supply a potential to a partial area of the first semiconductor area of a part of the plurality of pixels; and forming a second semiconductor area having a second conductivity type in an area between the first semiconductor area and the surface between the partial area and the transfer gate in a planar view.
19. The manufacturing method for the imaging apparatus according to claim 18, the method further comprising: forming a semiconductor area having the first conductivity type and having an impurity concentration higher than another area of the first semiconductor area by ion-implanting to the partial area before forming the contact; and forming a fourth semiconductor area having the first conductivity type by ion-implanting to an area neighboring to the first semiconductor area with the transfer gate interposed between them, the forming the semiconductor area having the first conductivity type and the forming the fourth semiconductor area having the first conductivity type are performed in parallel.
20. The manufacturing method for the imaging apparatus according to claim 19, further comprising forming a contact to the fourth semiconductor area, wherein the forming the contact to the partial area of the first semiconductor area and the forming the contact to the fourth semiconductor area are performed in parallel.
</claims>
</document>
