<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W4/02,H04W4/021,H04W60/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVEL RELATED SERVICES COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
AHN, JOHN L.
BHASKAR, ASHISH
DHARMARAJ, VASANTH
DURON, JACOB
GRAVES, JAMES H.
KENDALL, STEWART M.
LEONG, BRANDON
NAHRO, ELMAHDI
PATEL, JIMIT BALDEV
PATEL, NISHTHA
PAWALE, ASHISH A.
PEETHAMBARAM, PRADEEP
VILLEGAS, JOSE
WARE, JAMES
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69102685
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Dynamic geofences
</title>

<abstract>
A mobile device may identify nearby locations, such as locations of a merchant. The mobile device may create local geofences around the nearby locations. The mobile device may create an exit geofence which includes all of the local geofences. In response to the mobile device entering one of the local geofences, the mobile device may provide a notification regarding the location. In response to the mobile device leaving the exit geofence, the mobile device may identify nearby locations based on the new location of the mobile device, and the mobile device may create new local geofences for the current nearby locations, as well as a new exit geofence.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: selecting, by a mobile device, a plurality of eligible first locations within a first defined proximity to a first location of the mobile device from a list of eligible first locations, wherein the list of eligible first locations comprises a first plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on a user account of an application executed on the mobile device; determining, by the mobile device, a radius for a first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on an amount of power in a battery for the mobile device; generating, by the mobile device, the first geofence for individual ones of the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on the radius; generating, by the mobile device, an exit geofence, wherein the first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations is located within the exit geofence; and generating, by the mobile device using the application, a second geofence for individual ones of a plurality of eligible second locations within a second defined proximity to an exit location in response to the mobile device exiting the exit geofence, the plurality of eligible second locations being generated from a list of eligible second locations, and the list of eligible second locations comprising a second plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on the user account of the application.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the exit geofence is centered on the first location of the mobile device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the radius comprises a first radius, and a second radius of the exit geofence is equal to a distance between the mobile device and a farthest eligible first location of the plurality of eligible first locations.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising creating, by the mobile device, a notification request for a respective eligible first location of the plurality of eligible first locations, wherein the notification request comprises a notification trigger and notification content.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the notification trigger instructs the mobile device to provide a notification in response to the mobile device entering the first geofence.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the notification trigger comprises a dwell time, wherein the notification is provided after an expiration of the dwell time.
7. The method of claim 4, wherein the notification content comprises a welcome message to the respective eligible first location.
8. A mobile device comprising: a processor; and a tangible, non-transitory memory configured to communicate with the processor, the tangible, non-transitory memory having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: selecting, by the processor, a plurality of eligible first locations within a first defined proximity to a first location of the mobile device from a list of eligible first locations, wherein the list of eligible first locations comprises a first plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on a user account of an application executed on the mobile device; determining, by the processor, a radius for a first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on an amount of power in a battery for the mobile device; generating, by the processor, the first geofence for individual ones of the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on the radius; generating, by the processor, an exit geofence, wherein the first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations is located within the exit geofence; and generating, by the processor using the application, a second geofence for individual ones of a plurality of eligible second locations within a second defined proximity to an exit location in response to the mobile device exiting the exit geofence, the plurality of eligible second locations being generated from a list of eligible second locations, and the list of eligible second locations comprising a second plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on the user account of the application.
9. The mobile device of claim 8, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to perform operations comprising activating, by the processor, the application on the mobile device in response to receiving a notification trigger associated with the mobile device entering the first geofence.
10. The mobile device of claim 8, the instructions further cause the processor to perform operations comprising retrieving, by the processor, the first location of the mobile device.
11. The mobile device of claim 8, wherein the plurality of eligible second locations are further generated based at least in part on a plurality of characteristics, the plurality of characteristics include at least one of: a device type of the mobile device, a geographic location of the mobile device, a time of day, a type of the user account of the mobile device, a day of week, or a time of year.
12. The mobile device of claim 8, the instructions further cause the processor to perform operations comprising acquiring, by the processor using the application, the list of eligible second locations.
13. The mobile device of claim 8, the instructions further cause the processor to perform operations comprising removing, by the processor, a notification request previously stored in the mobile device in response to the mobile device exiting the exit geofence.
14. The mobile device of claim 8, the instructions further cause the processor to perform operations comprising requesting, by the processor, the list of eligible second locations.
15. An article of manufacture including a non-transitory, tangible computer readable storage medium having instructions stored thereon that, in response to execution by a mobile device, cause the mobile device to perform operations comprising: selecting, by the mobile device, a plurality of eligible first locations within a first defined proximity to a first location of the mobile device from a list of eligible first locations, wherein the list of eligible first locations comprises a first plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on a user account of an application executed on the mobile device; determining, by the mobile device, a radius for a first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on an amount of power in a battery for the mobile device; generating, by the mobile device, the first geofence for individual ones of the plurality of eligible first locations based at least in part on the radius; generating, by the mobile device, an exit geofence, wherein the first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations is located within the exit geofence; and generating, by the mobile device using the application, a second geofence for individual ones of a plurality of eligible second locations within a second defined proximity to an exit location in response to the mobile device exiting the exit geofence, the plurality of eligible second locations being generated from a list of eligible second locations and the list of eligible second locations comprising a second plurality of accessible locations to the mobile device based at least in part on the user account of the application.
16. The article of manufacture of claim 15, wherein the exit geofence is centered on the first location of the mobile device.
17. The article of manufacture of claim 16, wherein the radius comprises a first radius, and a second radius of the exit geofence is equal to a distance between the mobile device and a farthest eligible first location of the plurality of eligible first locations.
18. The article of manufacture of claim 15, wherein the instructions further cause the mobile device to perform operations comprising creating, by the mobile device, a notification request for at least one of the plurality of eligible first locations, wherein the notification request comprises a notification trigger and notification content.
19. The article of manufacture of claim 18, wherein the notification trigger instructs the mobile device to provide a notification in response to the mobile device entering the first geofence.
20. The article of manufacture of claim 15, wherein determining the radius for the first geofence for the plurality of eligible first locations is further based at least in part on a purchase history of the user account of the mobile device.
</claims>
</document>
