<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/215,G06F16/23,G06F16/2455
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LUNAPBC
</assignee>

<inventors>
KAIN, ROBERT C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65139260
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Community data aggregation with automated followup
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method are disclosed for the collection and aggregation of data from contributing members of a community, such as health-related, personal, genomic, medical, and other data of interest for individuals and populations. Contributors become members of a community upon creation of an account and providing of data or files. The data is received and processed, such as to analyze, structure, perform quality control, and curate the data. Value or shares in one or more community databases are computed and attributed to each contributing member. The data is controlled to avoid identification or personalization. Steps are taken to determine incompleteness and incorrectness of the data, and the data may be improved or completed automatically, based upon interaction with members, additional contributions of data, and so forth.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a server that, in operation, facilitates interaction with contributing members of an aggregation; a database maintained by an administrative entity that, in operation, stores and aggregates the member-specific contributed data transmitted by contributing members with member-specific contributed data contributed by other contributing members; and processing circuitry maintained by the administrative entity that, in operation, processes member-specific account data received from the contributing members via interface pages to establish member-specific accounts based on the member-specific account data, and attributes a member-specific value to the member-specific accounts based upon respective member-specific contributed data; and wherein the processing circuitry automatically and without human intervention sends follow-up de-identified communications to specific contributing members to prompt contribution of follow-up member-specific contributed data based upon a physical condition of the respective contributing members; wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for acquisition of additional data of the respective contributing members; and wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the member-specific contributed data of each member to determine at least one most convenient and/or cost effective source for the acquisition of additional data, and the recommendations include an indication of the most convenient and/or cost effective source for each respective recommendation to each respective contributing member.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the member-specific contributed data for each member to determine missing or incorrect data, and sends a de-identified communication to respective member to provide missing data or to correct incorrect data.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry sends the follow-up de-identified communications periodically.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry sends the follow-up de-identified communications based upon a member health journey as indicated by the member-specific contributed data for the respective contributing members.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry sends the follow-up de-identified communications based upon a condition and/or disease diagnosis as indicated by the member-specific contributed data for the respective contributing members.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for additional exams, tests, treatments.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the member-specific contributed data comprises health-related data, and the recommendations comprise at least one physical examination or test related to physical condition of the respective contributing members.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for updating or supplying other data.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the follow-up communications for one contributing member are based upon member-specific contributed data of at least one other contributing member.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the follow-up communications for one contributing member based are upon aggregated member-specific contributed data of a plurality of other contributing members.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the follow-up communications comprise a customized survey based upon the physical condition of the respective contributing members.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry re-evaluates the member-specific value after receipt of follow-up member-specific contributed data from each respective contributing member.
13. A system comprising: a server that, in operation, facilitates interaction with contributing members of an aggregation; a database maintained by an administrative entity that, in operation, stores and aggregates the member-specific contributed data transmitted by contributing members with member-specific contributed data contributed by other contributing members; and processing circuitry maintained by the administrative entity that, in operation, processes member-specific account data received from the contributing members via interface pages to establish member-specific accounts based on the member-specific account data, and attributes a member-specific value to the member-specific accounts based upon respective member-specific contributed data; and a template stored in database and including anticipated events or information in a patient health journey; wherein the processing circuitry automatically and without human intervention sends follow-up de-identified communications to specific contributing members to prompt contribution of follow-up member-specific contributed data based upon the template; wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for acquisition of additional data of the respective contributing members; and wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the member-specific contributed data of each member to determine at least one most convenient and/or cost effective source for the acquisition of additional data, and the recommendations include an indication of the most convenient and/or cost effective source for each respective recommendation to each respective contributing member.
14. The system of claim 13, comprising a plurality of templates, each template including anticipated events or information in a patient health journey of a different member.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the template is based upon analysis of the aggregated member-specific contributed data indicative of events or information in a patient health journey of other contributing members on a significantly similar patient health journey.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the template is based on contributed data from members who may have a similar condition or symptoms.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template relate to a patient health journey initiated by a birth or pregnancy, or indications related to disease or a health condition.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template relate to a patient health journey initiated by symptoms or conditions indicated by the patient-specific contributed data.
19. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template relate to a patient health journey initiated by identification of a physical condition potentially detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template relate to a patient health journey initiated by identification of a new treatment of a physical condition detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
21. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template relate to a patient health journey initiated by identification of a new examination or test useful in determining a physical condition detectable from the aggregated member-specific contributed data.
22. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up communications based upon the template comprise a custom report adapted to facilitate a contributing member consulting a medical professional.
23. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for additional exams, tests, treatments.
24. The system of claim 23, wherein the member-specific contributed data comprises health-related data, and the recommendations comprise at least one physical examination or test related to physical condition of the respective contributing members.
25. The system of claim 13, wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for updating or supplying other data.
26. The system of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry re-evaluates the member-specific value after receipt of followup member-specific contributed data from each respective contributing member.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the follow-up communications comprise an indication to each contributing member of the re-evaluation of the member-specific value applicable when the respective contributing member contributes the follow-up member-specific contributed data.
28. The system of claim 13, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to make ledger entries in an immutable and/or cryptographically encoded ledger and/or a blockchain based upon interaction with the contributing members.
29. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, from the contributing members, member-specific account data and member-specific contributed data, the member-specific contributed data comprising health-related data submitted by each contributing member or data derived therefrom; storing, in a database, the member-specific contributed data; aggregating the member-specific contributed data with member-specific contributed data of other contributing members; establishing a member-specific account for each contributing member based on the member-specific account data; attributing a member-specific value to each member-specific account based upon member-specific contributed data of the respective contributing member; processing the member-specific contributed data to determine missing or incorrect data, and sending a de-identified communication to respective member to provide missing data or to correct incorrect data based upon an identified patient health journey; wherein the follow-up de-identified communications comprise recommendations for acquisition of additional data of the respective contributing members; and wherein the processing circuitry analyzes the member-specific contributed data of each member to determine at least one most convenient and/or cost effective source for the acquisition of additional data, and the recommendations include an indication of the most convenient and/or cost effective source for each respective recommendation to each respective contributing member.
30. The method of claim 29, wherein the database comprises an immutable, tamper-evident, and/or cryptographically encoded ledger and/or a blockchain.
</claims>
</document>
