<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04B17/309,H04L5/00,H04W16/32,H04W24/10,H04W48/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NOKIA NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BEDEKAR, ANAND
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69945252
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Scell selection and optimization for telecommunication systems
</title>

<abstract>
UE-related measurements taken on a Pcell in a wireless communication system are formed into a set of data. The Pcell overlaps with Scell(s). The UE-related measurements on the P cell are for a specific UE in the Pcell. Using a ML algorithm applied to the set of data, achievable channel quality is predicted for the specific UE for each of the Scell(s). The predicted achievable channel qualities are output for the specific UE to be used for Scell selection. At a RAN node, the set of data is sent toward an S cell prediction module for the module to determine information suitable to enable Scell selection for the specific UE. The RAN node receives information from the module allowing the RAN node to inform the selected UE of Scell(s) to be used for Scell selection for the specific UE. A node may train the ML algorithm using UE-related measurements on the Pcell.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: forming user equipment-related measurements taken on a primary cell in a wireless communication system into a set of data, wherein the primary cell also overlaps with one or more secondary cells in the wireless communication system and wherein the user equipment-related measurements on the primary cell are for a specific user equipment in the primary cell; predicting, using a machine learning algorithm applied to the set of data, achievable channel quality for the specific user equipment for each of the one or more of the secondary cells; and outputting at least one of the predicted achievable channel qualities for the specific user equipment to be used for secondary cell selection for the specific user equipment.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the outputting comprises outputting the predicted achievable channel qualities toward a radio access network node that forms the primary cell.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting, based on the output at least one of the predicted achievable channel qualities for the specific user equipment, at least one secondary cell from the one or more secondary cells to be used for secondary cell selection for the specific user equipment; and sending indication of the at least one selected cell toward a radio access network node that forms the primary cell.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken on the primary cell comprise one or both of user equipment-related measurements taken by the primary cell for the specific user equipment or user equipment-related measurements taken on the primary cell by the specific user equipment.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken by the primary cell comprise one or more of the following for the specific user equipment: timing advance; angle of arrival; signal strength measurements, per-antenna signal strength measurements, per-antenna phase measurements, and/or beam-related measurements.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken by the specific user equipment comprise one or more of the following for the specific user equipment: channel quality indicator; signal to interference plus noise ratio; spectral efficiency; power headroom report; beam-related measurements; and/or reference signal received power.
7. The method of claim 1, performed by a first network node, wherein: the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell further comprise user equipment-related measurements taken by the primary cell for one or more other user equipment and user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell taken on the primary cell by the one or more other user equipment; the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell further comprise user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell for one or more additional user equipment already assigned to at least one of the one or more secondary cells that overlap with the primary cell and user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell taken by the primary cell for the additional one or more other user equipment; the method further comprises forming the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell into multiple versions of the set of data; the method further comprises determining, from the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell, one or more measurements of channel quality corresponding to one or more of the secondary cells, each of the one or more measurements of channel quality corresponding to individual versions of set of data; and the method further comprises sending the multiple versions of the set of data and the corresponding one or more measurements of channel quality toward a model training module, for use by the model training module in training the machine-learning algorithm.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein forming further comprises forming each set of data by applying a function to the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell to create the corresponding set of data.
9. A method, comprising: forming, at a radio access network node, user equipment-related measurements taken on a primary cell in a wireless communication system into a set of data, wherein the primary cell also overlaps with one or more secondary cells in the wireless communication system, wherein the user equipment-related measurements are for a specific user equipment in the primary cell, and wherein the primary cell is formed by the radio access network node; sending the set of data toward a secondary cell prediction module for the secondary cell module to determine information suitable to enable secondary cell selection for the specific user equipment; receiving the information from the secondary cell prediction module, the information further allowing the radio access network node to inform the selected user equipment of selected at least one of the one or more secondary cells to be used for secondary cell selection for the specific user equipment; and sending by the radio access network node indication of the at least one selected secondary cell toward the specific user equipment.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the information comprises information for a selected one of the one or more secondary cells or a selected N of the secondary cells, where N is an integer greater than one, and sending comprises sending by the radio access network node indication of the selected secondary cell or the selected N secondary cells toward the specific user equipment.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein: the information comprises a prediction from the secondary cell prediction module of achievable channel quality for the specific user equipment for at least one of the one or more of the secondary cells, the prediction comprising predicted achievable channel qualities for the specific user equipment based on the sent user equipment-related measurements in the set of data; the method further comprises selecting, based on the prediction and one or more additional factors, the at least one secondary cell to be used for the secondary cell selection for the specific user equipment.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein: the radio access network node comprises the secondary cell prediction module; and sending the set of data toward the secondary cell prediction module further comprises sending the user equipment-related measurements from first functionality in the radio access network node toward the secondary cell prediction module in the radio access network node.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein: the secondary cell prediction module is in an other network node separate and different from the radio access network node; and sending the set of data toward the secondary cell prediction module further comprises sending by the radio access network node the user equipment-related measurements from the radio access network node toward the other network node.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken on the primary cell comprise one or both of user equipment-related measurements taken by the primary cell for the specific user equipment or user equipment-related measurements taken on the primary cell by the specific user equipment.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken by the primary cell comprise one or more of the following for the specific user equipment: timing advance; angle of arrival; signal strength measurements, per-antenna signal strength measurements, per-antenna phase measurements, and/or beam-related measurements for a case where primary cell has multiple beams in a massive multiple input, multiple output system.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the user equipment-related measurements taken by the specific user equipment comprise one or more of the following for the specific user equipment: channel quality indicator; signal to interference plus noise ratio; spectral efficiency; power headroom report; beam-related measurements; and/or reference signal received power.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein the secondary cell prediction module uses a machine learning algorithm, and wherein the method further comprises: taking by the radio access network node the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell for one or more other user equipment; receiving by the radio access network node user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell taken on the primary cell by the one or more other user equipment; receiving by the radio access network node feedback from one or more additional user equipment already assigned to at least one of the one or more secondary cells that overlap with the primary cell, the feedback comprising user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell for the one or more additional user equipment; and taking by the radio access network node the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell for the additional one or more other user equipment; forming the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell into multiple versions of the set of data; determining, from the user equipment-related measurements for the primary cell, one or more measurements of channel quality corresponding to one or more of the secondary cells, each of the one or more measurements of channel quality corresponding to individual versions of set of data; and sending the multiple versions of the set of data and the corresponding one or more measurements of channel quality toward a model training module, for use by the model training module in training the machine-learning algorithm.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein a connection of the specific user equipment to a secondary cell may be either by carrier aggregation or dual connectivity.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein a secondary cell may be at a same radio access network node as the primary cell, or be at a different radio access network node as the primary cell.
20. A method, comprising: receiving multiple sets of data, the multiple sets of data comprising user equipment-related measurements taken on a primary cell in a wireless communication system and corresponding measurements of channel quality for one or more secondary cells, wherein the primary cell overlaps with the one or more secondary cells in the wireless communication system and wherein the user equipment-related measurements of the primary cell are for user equipment in the primary cell; performing training of a machine learning algorithm at least by applying the multiple sets of data to the machine learning algorithm, wherein the machine learning algorithm is configured to output a prediction of achievable channel quality for each of the one or more secondary cells; and outputting, in response to training being completed on the machine-learning algorithm, information defining the trained machine-learning algorithm.
</claims>
</document>
