<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F3/00,G06F9/451,G06N20/00,G10L15/26,H04L12/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
JANAKIRAMAN, JANANI
LU FANG
LIU SU
Kochura, Nadiya
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72604821
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Virtual conferencing assistance
</title>

<abstract>
Provided is a method, computer program product, and virtual conferencing system for providing virtual conferencing assistance to a user. A processor may monitor a virtual conferencing session between a plurality of users. The processor may detect a command to interact with a user interface (UI) element has been given. The processor may analyze UI action data in locating the UI element for the plurality of users. The processor may compare the UI action data for the plurality of users to a data threshold. The processor may determine, in response to the data threshold being met, that a user is experiencing difficulty in locating the UI element. The processor may provide, in response to determining that the user is experiencing difficulty, assistance to the user in locating the UI element.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: monitoring, by a processor, a virtual conferencing session between a plurality of users; detecting, by the processor, a command to interact with a user interface (UI) element has been given; analyzing, by the processor, UI action data for locating the UI element on a user interface for each of the plurality of users; comparing, by the processor, the UI action data for the plurality of users to a UI action data threshold; determining, by the processor and in response to the UI action data threshold being met for a user, that the user is experiencing difficulty in locating the UI element; and providing, by the processor and in response to determining that the user is experiencing difficulty, assistance to the user in locating the UI element, wherein providing assistance to the user experiencing difficulty in locating the UI element is based on a user profile associated with the user.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring, by the processor, UI action data of the plurality of users in response to the command to interact with the UI element; capturing, by the processor, user actions for one or more users that have successfully located the UI element; analyzing, by the processor, the captured user actions by utilizing machine learning; generating, by the processor, user guidance for locating the UI element from the captured user actions; and mapping, by the processor, the user guidance to one or more UI elements in a UI element dictionary.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: updating, by the processor, the user guidance for locating UI elements based on behavioral patterns of one or more users.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the processor and using natural language processing, textual data from spoken content received from the virtual conferencing session; and analyzing, by the processor and using natural language processing, the textual data for keywords that indicate commands to interact with one or more UI elements.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: classifying, by the processor, the command with a UI action that corresponds to the UI element.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: generating, by the processor, a UI element dictionary, wherein UI actions are mapped to UI elements.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving, by the processor, user guidance for providing assistance in locating the UI element from a UI element dictionary.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the UI action data threshold is based on an average response time for locating the UI element by the plurality of users.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the UI action data threshold is based on an average number of mouse clicks for locating the UI element by the plurality of users.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the user profile includes preferences for receiving user guidance in a preferred format.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the data threshold is adjusted based on the user profile for each of the plurality of users.
12. A virtual conferencing system comprising: a virtual conference assistant communicatively coupled to one or more devices in a virtual conferencing session, wherein the virtual conference assistant comprises: a processor, wherein the processor is configured to perform a method, the method comprising: monitoring the virtual conferencing session between a plurality of users; generating, using natural language processing, textual data from spoken content received from the virtual conferencing session; analyzing, using natural language processing, the textual data for keywords that indicate commands to interact with one or more user interface (UI) elements; detecting a command to interact with a UI element has been given; analyzing UI action data for locating the UI element on a user interface for each of the plurality of users; comparing the UI action data for the plurality of users to a UI action data threshold; determining, in response to the UI action data threshold being met for a user, that the user is experiencing difficulty in locating the UI element; and providing, in response to determining that the user is experiencing difficulty, assistance to the user in locating the UI element.
13. The virtual conferencing system of claim 12, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: monitoring UI action data of the plurality of users in response to the command to interact with the UI element; capturing user actions for one or more users that have successfully located the UI element; analyzing the captured user actions by utilizing machine learning; generating user guidance for locating the UI element from the captured user actions; and mapping the user guidance to one or more UI elements in a UI element dictionary.
14. The virtual conferencing system of claim 12, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: retrieving user guidance for providing assistance in locating the UI element from a UI element dictionary.
15. A computer program product comprising a computer-readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, wherein the computer-readable storage medium is not a transitory signal per se, the program instructions executable by a processor to cause the processor to perform a method comprising: monitoring a virtual conferencing session between a plurality of users; detecting a command to interact with a user interface (UI) element has been given; analyzing UI action data for locating the UI element on a user interface for each of the plurality of users; comparing the UI action data for the plurality of users to a UI action data threshold; determining, in response to the UI action data threshold being met for a user, that the user is experiencing difficulty in locating the UI element; retrieving user guidance for providing assistance in locating the UI element from a UI element dictionary; and providing, in response to determining that the user is experiencing difficulty, the user guidance to the user in locating the UI element.
16. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: monitoring UI action data of the plurality of users in response to the command to interact with the UI element; capturing user actions for one or more users that have successfully located the UI element; analyzing the captured user actions by utilizing machine learning; generating the user guidance for locating the UI element from the captured user actions; and mapping the user guidance to one or more UI elements in the UI element dictionary.
17. The computer program product of claim 15, wherein the method performed by the processor further comprises: generating, using natural language processing, textual data from spoken content received from the virtual conferencing session; and analyzing, using natural language processing, the textual data for keywords that indicate commands to interact with one or more UI elements.
</claims>
</document>
