<document>

<filing_date>
2014-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-03-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,G06F3/0484,H04L12/28,H04L12/40,H04L29/08,H04L9/32,H04W12/06,H04W4/02,H04W4/48
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BUSHMITCH, DENNIS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUSHMITCH, DENNIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51581790
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Integrated mobile device
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are a system and method of interacting with a vehicle or a home control system. A context associated with a user input is obtained in relation to the vehicle or the home control system. An instruction based on the user input and the context is generated. The instruction is transmitted to the vehicle or the home control system to generate control or indication in connection with one of a component and a function of the vehicle or the home control system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of interacting with a vehicle, the method comprising: determining, by a mobile computing device, a position of the mobile computing device with respect to a component of a plurality of components of the vehicle, the position identifying the component distinct from other components of the plurality of components; obtaining, by the mobile computing device, a context associated with a user input in relation to the component of the vehicle, the context based at least on the position of the mobile computing device with respect to the component of the vehicle as identified; generating, by the mobile computing device, an instruction based on the user input and the context; transmitting, by the mobile computing device, the instruction to the vehicle to generate a control or indication in connection with the component of the vehicle based on the instruction; applying, by a vehicle subsystem, the control to the component of the vehicle; and indicating, by the mobile computing device, an acknowledgement or a result associated with the instruction to the vehicle.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises receiving the user input.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input is one of a biometric input, an audio input, a video input, a button input, a button sequence input, a code input, and one or more combinations.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises selecting the context from one or more contexts obtained from at least one of the mobile computing device, the vehicle, a service provider, and a home control system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the instruction is a command to control the component of the vehicle.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the method further comprises generating an indication of the command, the indication comprising one of video, audio, actuation, and one or more combinations.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises obtaining an initiation indicator.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the initiation indicator is one of a user indicator and a system indicator.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the initiation indicator comprises the context.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein obtaining the initiation indicator comprises: detecting whether there is an anomaly in at least one of user activity and vehicle activity; and generating the initiation indicator when the anomaly is detected.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises receiving the result associated with the instruction.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the method further comprises generating an indication of the result by the mobile computing device, the indication comprising one of video, audio, actuation, and one or more combinations.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the method further comprises: determining whether the result is in indicatable format; and obtaining the result in indicatable format when the result was not in indictable format.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises: generating a dual security association based on association of user credentials and mobile computing device credentials; generating a triple security association based on the dual security association and one of service provider credentials and vehicle credentials; and forming a communication session based on the triple security association.
15. A system to interact with a vehicle, the system comprising: a mobile computing device comprising: a processing device; and a memory device to store instructions that, when executed by the processing device, cause the processing device to perform operations comprising: determining a position of the mobile computing device with respect to a component of a plurality of components of the vehicle, the position identifying the component distinct from other components of the plurality of components; obtaining a context associated with a user input in relation to the component of the vehicle, the context based at least on the position of the mobile computing device with respect to the component of the vehicle as identified; generating an instruction based on the user input and the context; and transmitting the instruction to the vehicle to generate a control or indication in connection with the component of the vehicle based on the instruction; and a vehicle subsystem configured to apply the control or indication to the component of the vehicle, wherein the operations further comprise indicating by the mobile computing device an acknowledgment or a result associated with the instruction to the vehicle.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise receiving the user input.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the user input is one of a biometric input, an audio input, a video input, a button input, a button sequence input, a code input, and one or more combinations.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise selecting the context from one or more contexts obtained from at least one of the mobile computing device, the vehicle, a service provider, and a home control system.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the instruction is a command to control the component of the vehicle.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the operations further comprise generating an indication of the command, the indication comprising one of video, audio, actuation, and one or more combinations.
21. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise obtaining an initiation indicator.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein the initiation indicator is one of a user indicator and a system indicator.
23. The system of claim 21, wherein the initiation indicator comprises the context.
24. The system of claim 21, wherein the operations further comprise: detecting whether there is an anomaly in at least one of user activity and vehicle activity; and generating the initiation indicator when the anomaly is detected.
25. The system of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise receiving the result associated with the instruction.
26. The system of claim 25, wherein the operations further comprise generating an indication of the result by the mobile computing device, the indication comprising one of video, audio, actuation, and one or more combinations.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the operations further comprise: determining whether the result is in indicatable format; and obtaining the result in indicatable format when the result was not in indictable format.
28. The system of claim 26, wherein the operations further comprise: generating a dual security association based on association of user credentials and mobile computing device credentials; generating a triple security association based on the dual security association and one of service provider credentials and vehicle credentials; and forming a communication session based on the triple security association.
</claims>
</document>
