<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01L23/00,H01L23/538,H01L25/065
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CEREBRAS SYSTEMS
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRICKER, JEAN-PHILIPPE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65023193
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Apparatus and method for securing substrates with varying coefficients of thermal expansion
</title>

<abstract>
An integrated circuit assembly that includes a semiconductor wafer having a first coefficient of thermal expansion; an electronic circuit substrate having a second coefficient of thermal expansion that is different than the first coefficient of thermal expansion; and an elastomeric connector arranged between the semiconductor wafer and the electronic circuit substrate and that forms an operable signal communication path between the semiconductor wafer and the electronic circuit substrate.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An integrated circuit assembly comprising: a non-compliant printed circuit board having a plurality of conductive pads arranged along a first surface of the non-compliant printed circuit board; a silicon-based semiconductor wafer having a plurality of conductive pads arranged along a first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer; a compliant connector being arranged between the first surface of the non-compliant printed circuit board and the first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer, wherein in a fully seated position, the compliant connector: (i) comes into contact with both the first surface of the non-compliant printed circuit board and the plurality of conductive pads of the non-compliant printed circuit board; (ii) comes into contact with both the first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and the plurality of conductive pads of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer; and (iii) elastically deforms based on a mismatch in coefficient of thermal expansions of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and the non-compliant printed circuit board.
2. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein the compliant connector comprises a plurality of elastically deformable conductive elements that elastically resist permanent deformations of the compliant connector when one or more portions of the compliant connector is placed under a load.
3. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the silicon-based semiconductor wafer has a first coefficient of thermal expansion, and the non-compliant printed circuit board has a second coefficient of thermal expansion that is greater than the first coefficient of thermal expansion.
4. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein the silicon-based semiconductor wafer comprises a singular integrally continuous form having a plurality of distinct die integrally formed within the singular integrally continuous form.
5. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein the silicon-based semiconductor wafer comprises a second surface having circuit layer formed along each of the plurality of distinct die.
6. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein the plurality of conductive pads of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer oppose the plurality of conductive pads of the non-compliant printed circuit board, and the plurality of conductive pads of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer have a one-to-one alignment with the plurality of conductive pads of the non-compliant printed circuit board.
7. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 6, wherein the compliant connector comprises a membrane having a plurality of elastically deformable conductive elements distributively arranged within a body of the membrane, and in the fully seated position, the plurality of elastically deformable conductive elements operably conduct signals between the plurality of conductive pads of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and the plurality of conductive pads of the non-compliant printed circuit board.
8. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein: the compliant connector elastically deforms at a first rate of deformation at a first interfacing region between the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and a first surface of the compliant connector, and the compliant connector elastically deforms at a second rate of deformation at a second interfacing region between the non-compliant printed circuit board and a second surface of the compliant connector.
9. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 8, wherein the first rate of deformation of the compliant connector is based on the first coefficient of thermal expansion of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer, and the second rate of deformation of the elastomeric connector is based on the second coefficient of thermal expansion of the electronic circuit substrate.
10. The integrated circuit assembly according to claim 1, wherein a plurality of die formed within the silicon-based semiconductor wafer; a circuit layer formed at each of the plurality of die; and a plurality of inter-die connections that communicatively connect pairs of die formed within the silicon-based semiconductor wafer, wherein each of the plurality of inter-die connections extend between distinct pairs of die of the plurality of die.
11. A semiconductor assembly comprising: an organic substrate having a plurality of conductive pads arranged along a first surface of the organic substrate; a silicon-based semiconductor wafer having a plurality of conductive pads arranged along a first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer; a compliant connector being arranged between the first surface of the organic substrate and the first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer, wherein in a compressed state of the semiconductor assembly, the compliant connector: (i) comes into contact with both the first surface of the organic substrate and the plurality of conductive pads of the organic substrate; (ii) comes into contact with both the first surface of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and the plurality of conductive pads of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer; and (iii) elastically deforms based on a mismatch in coefficient of thermal expansions of the silicon-based semiconductor wafer and the organic substrate.
12. The semiconductor assembly according to claim 11, wherein the compliant connector comprises a plurality of elastically deformable ball wires that elastically resist permanent deformations of the compliant connector when one or more portions of the compliant connector is placed under a load.
13. The semiconductor assembly according to claim 11, wherein the silicon-based semiconductor wafer comprises a singular integrally continuous form having a plurality of distinct die integrally formed within the singular integrally continuous form.
14. A method of assembling an integrating circuit assembly, the method comprising: arranging a semiconductor wafer within a first position; arranging a non-compliant printed circuit board within a second position; interposing a compliant connector between the semiconductor wafer and the non-compliant printed circuit board; forming an attachment between the semiconductor wafer, the compliant connector, and the non-compliant printed circuit board based on a loading of a mechanical force, wherein in a state of attachment, the compliant connector: (i) comes into contact with both a first surface of the non-compliant printed circuit board and a plurality of conductive pads of the non-compliant printed circuit board; (ii) comes into contact with both a first surface of the semiconductor wafer and a plurality of conductive pads of the semiconductor wafer; and (iii) elastically deforms based on a mismatch in coefficient of thermal expansions of the semiconductor wafer and the non-compliant printed circuit board.
15. The method according to claim 14, wherein the compliant connector comprises a plurality of elastically deformable conductive elements that elastically resist permanent deformations of the compliant connector when one or more portions of the compliant connector is placed under a load.
16. The method according to claim 14, wherein the semiconductor wafer comprises a singular integrally continuous form having a plurality of distinct die integrally formed within the singular integrally continuous form.
</claims>
</document>
