<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B22F3/105,B29C64/153,B29C64/393,B33Y10/00,B33Y30/00,B33Y50/02,G05B17/02,G06F17/50,G06F30/00,G06N20/00,G06N3/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TYTUS3D SYSTEM
</assignee>

<inventors>
HWANG, ILGOO
YI, HON S.
YUN, JERALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67903813
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for real-time defect detection, and automatic correction in additive manufacturing environment
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods of monitoring solidification quality and automatic correcting any detected defect in additive manufacturing are described. The present disclosure includes a build station for manufacturing one or more parts and a controller having one or more computer-vision based system coupled to the build station. One or more camera is provided to obtain a plurality of images of the solidified parts at predetermined settings. The present disclosure introduces a predictive model trained by machine learning algorithm, the predictive model calculates level of solidification quality of a manufactured part and build parameters value to be adjusted. The present disclosure introduces a plurality of validation coupons having various shapes to enhance more accuracy in manufacturing, wherein the validation coupons further include block data which is distributed to electronic ledger system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting a defect and identifying a corrective action for the defect in real-time during additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: receiving a plurality of captured images only of one or more solidified parts on a target area at a predetermined setting in sequence, wherein the predetermined setting is using at least one light source having at least one specific angle and direction at least one specific location, and at least one image recording device having at least one specific angle and direction at least one specific location at each layer; preprocessing the received captured images in sequence to extract feature-set; generating at least one curve from the feature-set, wherein the curve is a function generated from a feature-set by matching a preprocessed image only captured in each layer in real-time to data sources during a manufacturing process, wherein the function further comprising changes of each data sources at each layer during the manufacturing process; applying the at least one curve to a predictive model to calculate a level of solidification quality, wherein the predictive model is trained based on training data-set with at least one curve from a plurality of preprocessed captured images only in sequence and updated build parameters values based on a level of solidification quality from inspection output; and determining one or more build parameters values to be updated, if the predictive model detects a defect and to suppress the defect.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the target area is an area of applied powder layer on a build plate where a desired part is fabricated through laser scanning.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature-set is extracted from a plurality of captured images in prediction session, and the data-set is extracted from a plurality of captured images in training session.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the predetermined setting further comprising selectively turning on one or more light sources to change the amount of light illuminating the target area.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the predictive model is generated based on the steps from: collecting data sources with preprocessed captured images of each layer at a predetermined setting in sequence; generating training data-set with at least one curve from preprocessed images in sequence and corresponding build parameters values; labeling training data-set with a level of solidification quality based on inspection output; and training a machine learning algorithm to generate a predictive model by updating adjusted build parameters values based on the level of solidification quality from inspection output.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the data source further comprising a job file having two-dimensionally sliced geometric information layer-by-layer, a plurality of captured images in sequence, and build parameters of each layer including laser energy level, heater setting to heat the build plate, gas flow rate, scanning velocity, and predetermined settings of light source and image recording device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the machine learning algorithm is trained based on steps of: detecting one or more defects from inspection output; identifying corresponding layer information, build parameters information, and preprocessed image information from training data-set; labeling a level of solidification quality to corresponding data-set, and generating an updated label with adjusted build parameters.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the build parameters value to be updated through the predictive model comprises a laser energy intensity and/or a scanning velocity.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the preprocessing of images is performed through one or more computer-vision based systems.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the preprocessed captured images having contrasts in white and black due to a difference of light reflectivity from a solidified surface of the part under a specific angle of a light source.
11. The method of claim 1, the machine learning algorithm further comprises deep learning algorithm using a convolutional neural network (CNN, or ConvNet).
12. A system for detecting a defect and identifying a corrective action for the defect in real-time during additive manufacturing process, the system comprising: a build station having a build platform moving down along the z-axis to keep the top surface of a powder bed stationary during a build process, a build plate arranged on the build platform configured to fix one or more parts and layers of powders, a powder delivery apparatus having a pair of blades configured to store powders and to apply a powder layer onto the build plate, wherein the powder delivery apparatus receives powders from a hopper and moves along a p-axis within the build station; one or more laser sources configured to generate laser energy to melt and solidify one or more parts on a powder layer; a scanner having one or more mirrors configured to control the laser path by adjusting angular orientation of the mirrors and to irradiate the laser onto the geometric coordinates of the target area to melt the powder, an objective lens configured to focus the laser energy at a focal point used in conjunction with a galvanometer, beam expander, a plurality of light sources to illuminate the target area; and a plurality of image recording devices to capture the target area; a controller coupled to the build station including a memory, a processor, an input/output connector, a storage, and a network interface configured to: store a job file having geometric information and build parameters information; receive a plurality of captured images from coupled at least one image recording devices; conduct image processing to extract feature-set from the captured images; generate at least one curve from the extracted feature-set; generate a training data-set from the extracted feature-set and the curves; and train a machine learning algorithm to generate a predictive model configured to apply the at least one curve to calculate a level of solidification quality, wherein the predictive model is trained based on training data-set and updated build parameters values based on a level of solidification quality from inspection output; and an external server coupled to the controller configured to distribute electronic ledger for tracking manufacturing process information associated with the build process.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the controller is adjusting build parameters through coupled external devices.
14. A method for detecting a defect and identifying a corrective action for the defect in real-time using a plurality of validation coupons during additive manufacturing process, the method comprising: loading a job file from a processor; applying a powder layer on a build plate using a powder delivery apparatus; perform a first defect detecting process of a target area of the applied powder layer, wherein the first defect detecting process further comprises steps of illuminating the target area using at least one light source at predetermined setting in sequence, capturing one or more images on the target area using at least one image recording device at predetermined setting in sequence, performing preprocessing of received images using one or more computer-vision systems, identifying any defect of the applied powder layer, giving an alert to correct an issue if a corrective action is determined to perform, and performing corrective actions thereof; scan the powder layer using one or more laser sources to fabricate a desired part with a plurality of validation coupons at predefined build parameters; perform a second defect detecting process of the target area, wherein the second defect detecting process further comprises steps of illuminating the target area using at least one light source at predetermined setting in sequence, capturing one or more reference images on the target area using at least one image recording device at predetermined setting in sequence, performing preprocessing of received reference images using one or more computer-vision systems to extract feature-set, generating at least one curve from the extracted feature-set, generating a training data-set from the extracted feature-set and the curves, identifying a level of solidification quality by applying the curve to a predictive model, wherein the predictive model is trained based on training data-set and updated build parameters values based on a level of solidification quality from inspection output, update build parameters according to the level of solidification quality if an adjustment of build parameter is determined to perform, and adjust the build parameters via a coupled controller; and perform a third defect detecting process of the target area, wherein the third defect detecting process further comprises steps of illuminating the target area using at least one light source at predetermined setting in sequence, capturing one or more reference images on a predefined region using at least one image recording device at predetermined setting in sequence, performing preprocessing of received coupon images using one or more computer-vision systems to extract feature-set, generating at least one curve from the extracted feature-set, generating a training data-set from the extracted feature-set and the curves, identifying a level of solidification quality by applying the curve to a predictive model, wherein the predictive model is trained based on training data-set and updated build parameters values based on a level of solidification quality from inspection output, update build parameters according to the level of solidification quality if an adjustment of build parameter is determined to perform, and adjust the build parameters via the coupled controller.
15. The method of claim 14, the method further selectively performs the second defect detecting process or the third defect detecting process during the manufacturing process.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the detected defects from the first defect detecting process are a short feeding including uneven surface of a powder layer and/or a patterned feeding.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the alert configured to correct issues associated with the first defect detecting process comprising: replacing a blade; dispensing powders; and/or stopping the process.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the computer-vision system is performing pattern matching and/or color contrast analysis using a predetermined tolerance value associated with the image analysis.
</claims>
</document>
