<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/9032,G06F16/9035,G06N20/10,G06N3/08,G06N5/04,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06,G16H20/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTERCONTINENTAL GREAT BRANDS (KRAFT FOODS)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ANDREJKO, ERIK
ALDOR-NOIMAN, SIVAN
LEIFER, TJARKO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67298305
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for improving food-related personalization
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for improving food-related personalization for a user including generating a recipe database including a set of recipe data structures; deriving a recipe vector representation of the recipe data structures; determining a set of user food preferences; extracting a set of recipe vector constraints from the set of user food preferences; determining a personalized food plan for the user, including automatically selecting a subset of the set of recipe data structures associated with recipe vector representations that satisfy the set of recipe vector constraints; determining fulfillment parameters for grocery items associated with the personalized food plan; and automatically facilitating fulfillment of grocery items associated with the personalized food plan based on the fulfillment parameters.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for improving food-related personalization for a user comprising: generating a recipe database comprising a set of recipe data structures, wherein each of the set of recipe data structures comprises natural language data; deriving a recipe vector representation of each of the set of recipe data structures, comprising: training a neural network model using each of the set of recipe data structures as inputs, wherein the neural network model comprises a plurality of neuronal layers, wherein the recipe vector representation comprises an intermediate layer of the plurality of neuronal layers; determining a set of user food preferences; extracting a set of recipe vector constraints from the set of user food preferences; determining a personalized food plan for the user, comprising: comparing the recipe vector representation of each of the set of recipe data structures to the set of recipe vector constraints, and automatically selecting a subset of the set of recipe data structures associated with recipe vector representations that satisfy the set of recipe vector constraints, based on the comparison; determining fulfillment parameters for grocery items associated with the personalized food plan; and automatically facilitating fulfillment of grocery items associated with the personalized food plan based on the fulfillment parameters.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the set of user food preferences comprises inferring user food preferences from social media content associated with the user.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein inferring user food preferences from social media content comprises analyzing cuisine types of dining establishments frequented by the user based on the social media content.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically facilitating fulfillment of grocery items comprises facilitating physical transport of the grocery items to the user.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the set of recipe data structures specifies a set of ingredients, and further comprising deriving an ingredient vector representation associated with each ingredient of the set of ingredients.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising determining a set of substitution parameters associated with each ingredient based on the ingredient vector representation.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the set of substitution parameters comprises comparing the ingredient vector representation of each ingredient with the ingredient vector representation of each other ingredient in the recipe database in a pairwise manner.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein comparing the ingredient vector representation of each ingredient with the ingredient vector representation of each other ingredient comprises determining the distance between each pair of ingredient vector representations in a vector space containing all the ingredient vector representations in the recipe database.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein comparing the ingredient vector representation of each ingredient with the ingredient vector representation of each other ingredient comprises determining the distance between each component of each pair of ingredient vector representations in a vector space containing all the ingredient vector representations in the recipe database and defining a number of dimensions equal to a number of components of each ingredient vector representation.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein a subset of the number of components of each ingredient vector representation represents a flavor profile, and wherein determining the set of substitution parameters associated with each ingredient comprises determining a similarity between a first flavor profile of each ingredient vector representation and a second flavor profile of each other ingredient vector representation in the recipe database.
11. The method of claim 6, further comprising substituting a first ingredient for a second ingredient specified by a recipe data structure based on the user food preferences and the set of substitution parameters associated with the first and second ingredients.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the user food preferences comprise a user allergy, and further comprising substituting the first ingredient for the second ingredient based on the user allergy to the second ingredient.
13. The method of claim 6, further comprising substituting a first ingredient for a second ingredient specified by a recipe data structure based on the fulfillment parameters and the set of substitution parameters associated with the first and second ingredients.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein determining fulfillment parameters for grocery items comprises determining that the second ingredient is unavailable, and substituting the first ingredient for the second ingredient in response to determining that the second ingredient is unavailable.
15. The method of claim 6, wherein the recipe data structure is associated with a set of preparation parameters, and further comprising: substituting a first ingredient for a second ingredient specified by a recipe data structure based on the set of substitution parameters associated with the first and second ingredients, and modifying a preparation parameter of the set of preparation parameters based on the substitution parameters associated with the first ingredient.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the preparation parameter comprises a cook time, and wherein modifying the preparation parameter comprises altering the cook time based on the substitution parameters.
17. The method of claim 15, further comprising controlling a connected cooking device according to the preparation parameter subsequent to modifying the preparation parameter.
18. The method of claim 6, further comprising determining fulfilled items, and updating the personalized food plan based on the fulfilled items and the substitution parameters.
19. A system for improving food-related personalization for a user comprising: a remote computing system, comprising: a recipe database comprising a set of recipe data structures represented by recipe vectors, wherein each of the set of recipe data structures comprises natural language data, and wherein a set of ingredients represented by ingredient vectors and preparation parameters associated with each of the set of ingredients are determined based on the recipe data structures; a food personalization module that: extracts a set of vector constraints from food preference data associated with the user, generates a personalized food plan based on a comparison between the set of vector constraints and the recipe vectors of the set of recipe data structures, and automatically facilitates fulfillment of grocery items associated with the personalized food plan; a user device communicatively coupled to the remote computing system, comprising: a user interface that records explicit and inferred food preference data from the user, and an application executing on the user device that provides the food preference data to the food personalization module.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the user device is communicatively coupled to a connected cooking tool, and wherein the user device: controls the cooking tool according to the preparation parameters associated with the ingredients specified by a recipe data structure selected by the user at the user device, and updates the personalized food plan based on the selected recipe data structure.
</claims>
</document>
