<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/53,G06F21/55,G06F21/56,G06F21/57,G06F30/20,G06F8/65,G06K9/62,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
RELIAQUEST HOLDINGS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARTLOW, JOE
MURPHY, BRIAN P.
PFEIFFER, JASON
O'CONNOR, COLIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68763673
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Threat mitigation system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method, computer program product and computing system for: obtaining consolidated platform information to identify current security-relevant capabilities for a computing platform; determining comparative platform information that identifies security-relevant capabilities for a comparative platform; and generating comparison information that compares the current security-relevant capabilities of the computing platform to the comparative platform information of the comparative platform to identify a threat context indicator.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, executed on a computing device, comprising: generating, via a Security Information and Event Management system, consolidated platform information from a plurality of security-relevant subsystems within a computing platform, the plurality of security-relevant subsystems including one or more of Content Delivery Network systems, Database Activity Monitoring systems, User Behavior Analytic systems, Mobile Device Management systems, Identity and Access Management systems, and Domain Name Server systems, wherein generating the consolidated platform information from the plurality of security-relevant subsystems within the computing platform includes establishing connectivity with the plurality of security-relevant subsystems via one or more application programmable interface (API) gateways; obtaining the consolidated platform information to identify current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform, wherein the current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform indicate the capabilities of the computing platform to counter computer threats; determining comparative platform information that identifies security-relevant capabilities for a comparative platform, wherein the comparative platform concerns one or more vendor customers; generating comparison information that compares the current security-relevant capabilities of the computing platform to the comparative platform information of the comparative platform to identify a threat context indicator; and displaying the comparison information to user, wherein the comparison information includes a current threat context score for a client and a threat context score for the one or more vendor customers.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in a specific industry comparative.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in any industry comparative.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the comparison information includes graphical comparison information.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4 wherein the graphical comparison information identifies the current threat context score for a client, a maximum possible threat context score for the client, and one or more of: a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in a specific industry; and a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in any industry.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from an independent information source.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from a client information source.
8. A computer program product residing on a non-transitory computer readable medium having a plurality of instructions stored thereon which, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising: generating, via a Security Information and Event Management system, consolidated platform information from a plurality of security-relevant subsystems within a computing platform, the plurality of security-relevant subsystems including one or more of Content Delivery Network systems, Database Activity Monitoring systems, User Behavior Analytic systems, Mobile Device Management systems, Identity and Access Management systems, and Domain Name Server systems, wherein generating the consolidated platform information from the plurality of security-relevant subsystems within the computing platform includes establishing connectivity with the plurality of security-relevant subsystems via one or more application programmable interface (API) gateways; obtaining the consolidated platform information to identify current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform, wherein the current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform indicate the capabilities of the computing platform to counter computer threats; determining comparative platform information that identifies security-relevant capabilities for a comparative platform, wherein the comparative platform concerns one or more vendor customers; generating comparison information that compares the current security-relevant capabilities of the computing platform to the comparative platform information of the comparative platform to identify a threat context indicator; and displaying the comparison information to user, wherein the comparison information includes a current threat context score for a client and a threat context score for the one or more vendor customers.
9. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in a specific industry comparative.
10. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in any industry comparative.
11. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the comparison information includes graphical comparison information.
12. The computer program product of claim 11 wherein the graphical comparison information identifies the current threat context score for a client, a maximum possible threat context score for the client, and one or more of: a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in a specific industry; and a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in any industry.
13. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from an independent information source.
14. The computer program product of claim 8 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from a client information source.
15. A computing system including a processor and memory configured to perform operations comprising: generating, via a Security Information and Event Management system, consolidated platform information from a plurality of security-relevant subsystems within a computing platform, the plurality of security-relevant subsystems including one or more of Content Delivery Network systems, Database Activity Monitoring systems, User Behavior Analytic systems, Mobile Device Management systems, Identity and Access Management systems, and Domain Name Server systems, wherein generating the consolidated platform information from the plurality of security-relevant subsystems within the computing platform includes establishing connectivity with the plurality of security-relevant subsystems via one or more application programmable interface (API) gateways; obtaining the consolidated platform information to identify current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform, wherein the current security-relevant capabilities for the computing platform indicate the capabilities of the computing platform to counter computer threats; determining comparative platform information that identifies security-relevant capabilities for a comparative platform, wherein the comparative platform concerns one or more vendor customers; generating comparison information that compares the current security-relevant capabilities of the computing platform to the comparative platform information of the comparative platform to identify a threat context indicator; and displaying the comparison information to user, wherein the comparison information includes a current threat context score for a client and a threat context score for the one or more vendor customers.
16. The computing system of claim 15 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in a specific industry comparative.
17. The computing system of claim 15 wherein the comparative platform information concerns vendor customers in any industry comparative.
18. The computing system of claim 15 wherein the comparison information includes graphical comparison information.
19. The computing system of claim 18 wherein the graphical comparison information identifies the current threat context score for a client, a maximum possible threat context score for the client, and one or more of: a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in a specific industry; and a threat context score for one or more vendor customers in any industry.
20. The computing system of claim 15 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from an independent information source.
21. The computing system of claim 15 wherein the consolidated platform information is obtained from a client information source.
</claims>
</document>
