<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/62,G06N20/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SPARKCOGNITION
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIEBMAN, ELAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71408405
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processor and method of weighted feature importance estimation
</title>

<abstract>
A method includes determining a feature importance ranking for each pair of clusters of a plurality of clusters to generate a first plurality of feature importance rankings. The method further includes determining a feature importance ranking between a particular data element and each cluster to generate a second plurality of feature importance rankings. A distance value associated with each pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters is determined to generate a plurality of distance values, and a probability value associated with each data element is determined to generate a plurality of probability values. The method further includes weighting the first plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of distance values to determine a first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings and weighting the second plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of probability values to determine a second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of operation of a processor, the method comprising: determining a feature importance ranking for each pair of clusters of a plurality of clusters associated with data to generate a first plurality of feature importance rankings; determining a feature importance ranking between a particular data element of the data and each cluster of the plurality of clusters to generate a second plurality of feature importance rankings; determining a distance value associated with each pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters to generate a plurality of distance values, wherein a particular distance value associated with a particular pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters indicates a distance between a first cluster of the particular pair of clusters and a second cluster of the particular pair of clusters; for each data element of the data at a distance that is within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters, determining a probability value associated with the data element to generate a plurality of probability values; weighting the first plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of distance values to determine a first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings; weighting the second plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of probability values to determine a second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings; and using the first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings and the second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings in a machine learning operation.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising, prior to determining the first plurality of feature importance rankings: classifying one or more data elements of the data as being within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters; and classifying the particular data element as being an outlier of the data.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings indicates a weighted ranking of features of the particular data element contributing to classification of the particular data element as an outlier.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of clusters is associated with a plurality of sets of features of the data, and wherein the particular data element is associated with a particular set of features that is distinct from each of the plurality of sets of features.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of feature importance rankings and the second plurality of feature importance rankings are generated during an unsupervised learning process performed by the processor.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of feature importance rankings and the second plurality of feature importance rankings are generated during a supervised learning process performed by the processor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the first plurality of feature importance rankings includes, for a pair of clusters including a first cluster of the plurality of clusters and a second cluster of the plurality of clusters: identifying at least a first feature associated with classification of data elements of the data as being within the first cluster instead of the second cluster; and identifying at least a second feature associated with classification of data elements of the data as being within the second cluster instead of the first cluster.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the second plurality of feature importance rankings includes identifying, for each cluster of the plurality of clusters, a feature associated with classification of data elements of the data as being outside each cluster.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the distance between the first cluster of the particular pair of clusters and the second cluster of the particular pair of clusters is within a feature space.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the plurality of probability values includes determining, for each cluster of the plurality of clusters, a probability that each non-anomalous data element of the data is within the cluster.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings includes identifying a primary feature associated with a clustered data element of the data contributing to classification of the clustered data element within a cluster associated with the clustered data element.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings includes identifying a primary feature associated with the particular data element of the data contributing to classification of the particular data element as being outside a particular cluster that is proximate to the particular data element in a feature space.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of feature importance rankings and the second plurality of feature importance rankings are determined using a random forest classification technique.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the first plurality of feature importance rankings and the second plurality of feature importance rankings are determined using a mutual information classification technique.
15. An apparatus comprising: a memory; and a processor coupled to the memory and configured to: determine a feature importance ranking for each pair of clusters of a plurality of clusters associated with data to generate a first plurality of feature importance rankings; determine a feature importance ranking between a particular data element of the data and each cluster of the plurality of clusters to generate a second plurality of feature importance rankings; determine a distance value associated with each pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters to generate a plurality of distance values, wherein a particular distance value associated with a particular pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters indicates a distance between a first cluster of the particular pair of clusters and a second cluster of the particular pair of clusters; for each data element of the data that is within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters, determine a probability value associated with the data element to generate a plurality of probability values; weight the first plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of distance values to determine a first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings; and weight the second plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of probability values to determine a second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to classify one or more data elements of the data as being within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters and to classify the particular data element as being an outlier of the data.
17. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings indicates a weighted ranking of features of the particular data element contributing to classification of the particular data element as an outlier.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions executable by a processor to perform operations, the operations comprising: determining a feature importance ranking for each pair of clusters of a plurality of clusters associated with data to generate a first plurality of feature importance rankings; determining a feature importance ranking between a particular data element of the data and each cluster of the plurality of clusters to generate a second plurality of feature importance rankings; determining a distance value associated with each pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters to generate a plurality of distance values, wherein a particular distance value associated with a particular pair of clusters of the plurality of clusters indicates a distance between a first cluster of the particular pair of clusters and a second cluster of the particular pair of clusters; for each data element of the data that is within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters, determining a probability value associated with the data element to generate a plurality of probability values; weighting the first plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of distance values to determine a first plurality of weighted feature importance rankings; and weighting the second plurality of feature importance rankings based on the plurality of probability values to determine a second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise, prior to determining the first plurality of feature importance rankings: classifying one or more data elements of the data as being within one or more clusters of the plurality of clusters; and classifying the particular data element as being an outlier of the data.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the second plurality of weighted feature importance rankings indicates a weighted ranking of features of the particular data element contributing to classification of the particular data element as an outlier.
</claims>
</document>
