<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06N3/02,G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G16H30/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEVALIER, DAVID ERIK
GROS, ERIC MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67392320
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for capturing deep learning training data from imaging systems
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and systems are provided for capturing deep learning training data from imaging systems. In one embodiment, a method for an imaging system comprises performing a scan of a subject to acquire imaging data, inputting the imaging data to a deep neural network, displaying an output of the deep neural network and an image reconstructed from the imaging data, and transmitting an intermediate representation of the imaging data generated by the deep neural network to a server for training a central deep neural network. In this way, imaging data may be leveraged for training and developing global deep learning models without transmitting the imaging data itself, thereby preserving patient privacy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for an imaging system, comprising: performing a scan of a subject to acquire imaging data; inputting the imaging data to a deep neural network; displaying an output of the deep neural network and an image reconstructed from the imaging data; transmitting an intermediate representation of the imaging data generated by the deep neural network to a server for training a central deep neural network; and receiving a ground truth for the deep neural network, and transmitting the ground truth to the server for training the central deep neural network.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the deep neural network comprises a first hidden layer and a second hidden layer, and wherein the intermediate representation comprises an output of the first hidden layer.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising training the deep neural network based on an error of the output of the deep neural network, wherein training the deep neural network comprises adjusting weights of hidden nodes of the second hidden layer.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein training the deep neural network excludes training the first hidden layer.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the ground truth is received from a user via a user interface of the imaging system.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising training the deep neural network with backpropagation based on the ground truth.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising reconstructing the image from the imaging data, wherein inputting the imaging data to the deep neural network comprises inputting the image to the deep neural network.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the output of the deep neural network and the image comprises displaying, via a display device of the imaging system, the output superimposed on the image.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein displaying the output of the deep neural network and the image comprises displaying, via a display device of the imaging system, the output of the deep neural network adjacent to the image.
10. A system, comprising: an imaging system comprising a scanner for scanning a subject to acquire imaging data, a processor, and a non-transitory memory storing a deep neural network; and a server comprising a processor and a non-transitory memory storing a central deep neural network, the server communicatively coupled to the imaging system via a network; wherein the imaging system is configured with executable instructions in the non-transitory memory of the imaging system that when executed cause the processor of the imaging system to transmit an intermediate representation of the imaging data to the server for training the central deep neural network, the intermediate representation of the imaging data generated by the deep neural network; and wherein the imaging system further comprises a user interface configured to receive input from an operator of the imaging system, wherein the imaging system is further configured with executable instructions in the non-transitory memory of the imaging system that when executed causes the processor of the imaging system to receive, via the user interface, a ground truth for the deep neural network.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the imaging system is further configured with executable instructions in the non-transitory memory of the imaging system that when executed causes the processor of the imaging system to transmit the ground truth to the server for training the central deep neural network.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the server is configured with executable instructions in the non-transitory memory of the server that when executed cause the processor of the server to receive the intermediate representation and the ground truth, input the intermediate representation to a hidden layer of the central deep neural network as input features, and adjust weights of the hidden layer based on the ground truth.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the intermediate representation of the imaging data comprises an output of a hidden layer of the deep neural network generated when the imaging data is input to the deep neural network.
14. An imaging system, comprising: an x-ray source that emits a beam of x-rays towards a subject to be imaged; a detector that receives the x-rays attenuated by the subject; a data acquisition system (DAS) operably connected to the detector; and a computing device operably connected to the DAS and configured with executable instructions in non-transitory memory that when executed cause the computing device to: control the x-ray source to emit the beam of x-rays towards the subject; receive projection data from the DAS corresponding to the received x-rays attenuated by the subject; reconstruct an image from the projection data; input one of the projection data or the image to a deep neural network stored in the non-transitory memory; and transmit, to a server communicatively coupled to the computing device, an intermediate representation of the projection data or the image for training a central deep neural network stored in the server, the intermediate representation generated by a hidden layer of the deep neural network.
15. The imaging system of claim 14, further comprising a display device coupled to the computing device, wherein the computing device is further configured with executable instructions in non-transitory memory that when executed cause the computing device to display, via the display device, the image and an output generated by the deep neural network from the projection data or the image.
16. The imaging system of claim 15, further comprising an operator console coupled to the computing device, wherein the computing device is further configured with executable instructions in non-transitory memory that when executed cause the computing device to: receive, via the operator console, a ground truth for the deep neural network; and train the deep neural network without adjusting the hidden layer of the deep neural network according to an error calculated from the ground truth and the output generated by the deep neural network.
17. The imaging system of claim 16, wherein the computing device is further configured with executable instructions in non-transitory memory that when executed cause the computing device to transmit the ground truth to the server for training the central deep neural network.
18. The imaging system of claim 14, wherein the intermediate representation comprises an output of the hidden layer of the deep neural network.
19. A method for an imaging system, comprising: performing a scan of a subject to acquire imaging data; inputting the imaging data to a deep neural network; displaying an output of the deep neural network and an image reconstructed from the imaging data; and transmitting an intermediate representation of the imaging data generated by the deep neural network to a server for training a central deep neural network; wherein the deep neural network comprises a first hidden layer and a second hidden layer, and wherein the intermediate representation comprises an output of the first hidden layer.
</claims>
</document>
