<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-26
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-07-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
LUO, JIESI
WU, WEI
ZHENG, LU
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65038113
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Marketplace feed ranking on online social networks
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes, receiving a request, from a client system of a first user, to access a marketplace including products offered for sale by a second user. The method includes, by the computing device, filtering a set of product listings based on multiple respective product-listing embeddings and a content-interaction embedding associated with the first user. Each product listing includes a description of one of the products in the marketplace. The method includes ranking each product listing in the filtered set based at least on a product-score representing a likelihood of the first user interacting with the respective product. The product-score is based on interaction information associated with the first user, product information associated with the product, and sparse information associated with the first user. The method includes sending, to the client system of the first user, a subset of the ranked product listings.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: by a computing device, receiving a request, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, to access a marketplace comprising a plurality of products offered for sale by a second user of the online social network; by the computing device, accessing a content interaction history of the first user in response to receiving the request; by the computing device, filtering a set of product listings based on comparing a plurality of respective product-listing embeddings and a content-interaction embedding associated with the first user, wherein each of the product listings comprises a description of one of the products in the marketplace, wherein each product-listing embedding is a vector representation of a corresponding product listing mapped to a first embedding space and the content-interaction embedding is a vector representation of the content interaction history of the first user mapped to a second embedding space, wherein the second embedding space maps to the first embedding space; by the computing device, ranking each product listing in the filtered set based at least on a product-score representing a likelihood of the first user interacting with the respective product, the product-score being based on interaction information associated with the first user, product information associated with the product, and sparse information associated with the first user; and by the computing device, sending, to the client system of the first user, a subset of the ranked product listings having a rank that satisfies a threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating the content-interaction embedding associated with the first user based on the content interaction history associated with the first user.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: generating the content-interaction embedding on a periodic basis.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the content interaction history comprises: user demographic information associated with the first user; an image interaction history associated with the first user; or a text interaction history associated with the first user.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more product-listing embeddings associated with one or more product listings, respectively, based on content associated with each of the respective product listings.
6. The method of claim 5 further comprising: generating the product-listing embedding for a particular product listing when the particular product listing is submitted to the marketplace or when the particular product listing is updated.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the content associated with each product listing comprises one or more text items; and the generating the product-listing embedding for a particular product-listing comprises parsing each of the one or more text items associated with the particular product listing into one or more n-grams.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the content associated with each product listing comprises one or more images; and the generating the product-listing embedding for a particular product listing comprises performing feature recognition on the one or more images associated with the particular product listing.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of product-listing embeddings and the content-interaction embedding are generated by respective machine-learning-generated models.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the machine-learning-generated models are trained using a rank-loss training methodology.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the filtering the set of product listings comprises: for each of the product listings, computing a dot product of the content-interaction embedding and the respective product-listing embedding to generate a filter value; and removing from the set of product listings one or more product listings having a filter value that does not satisfy a threshold filter value.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the product-score comprises a weighted combination of a plurality of calculated probabilities, each of the calculated probabilities representing a likelihood of the first user initiating a particular interaction with the respective product listing.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the product information associated with each product listing comprises an interaction history associated with the product or a product category.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the interaction information associated with the first user comprises: a content interaction history associated with the first user; a user-category interaction history associated with the first user; a user-group interaction history associated with the first user; a user-content interaction history associated with the first user; or a similar-product interaction history associated with the first user.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the sparse information associated with the first user comprises user engagement information wherein a number of possible engagement recipients is substantially larger than a number of engagement recipients with whom the first user has engaged.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the ranking is performed by a machine-learning-generated model.
17. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media comprising software that is operable when executed to: receive a request, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, to access a marketplace comprising a plurality of products offered for sale by a second user of the online social network; access a content interaction history of the first user in response to receiving the request; filter a set of product listings based on comparing a plurality of respective product-listing embeddings and a content-interaction embedding associated with the first user, wherein each of the product listings comprises a description of one of the products in the marketplace, wherein each product-listing embedding is a vector representation of a corresponding product listing mapped to a first embedding space and the content-interaction embedding is a vector representation of the content interaction history of the first user mapped to a second embedding space, wherein the second embedding space maps to the first embedding space; rank each product listing in the filtered set based at least on a product-score representing a likelihood of the first user interacting with the respective product, the product-score being based on interaction information associated with the first user, product information associated with the product, and sparse information associated with the first user; and send, to the client system of the first user, a subset of the ranked product listings having a rank that satisfies a threshold.
18. The media of claim 17, wherein the software is further operable when executed to generate the content-interaction embedding associated with the first user based on the content interaction history associated with the first user.
19. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media coupled to one or more of the processors and comprising instructions operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to: receive a request, from a client system of a first user of an online social network, to access a marketplace comprising a plurality of products offered for sale by a second user of the online social network; access a content interaction history of the first user in response to receiving the request; filter a set of product listings based on comparing a plurality of respective product-listing embeddings and a content-interaction embedding associated with the first user, wherein each of the product listings comprises a description of one of the products in the marketplace, wherein each product-listing embedding is a vector representation of a corresponding product listing mapped to a first embedding space and the content-interaction embedding is a vector representation of the content interaction history of the associated user mapped to a second embedding space, wherein the second embedding space maps to the first embedding space; rank each product listing in the filtered set based at least on a product-score representing a likelihood of the first user interacting with the respective product, the product-score being based on interaction information associated with the first user, product information associated with the product, and sparse information associated with the first user; and send, to the client system of the first user, a subset of the ranked product listings having a rank that satisfies a threshold.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the instructions are further operable when executed by one or more of the processors to cause the system to generate the content-interaction embedding associated with the first user based on the content interaction history associated with the first user.
</claims>
</document>
