<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2010-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F21/31,G06F21/36,G06F21/40,G06F3/0486,G06F3/0488,H04W12/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BIOCATCH
</assignee>

<inventors>
RIVNER, URI
TURGEMAN, AVI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63916159
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System, device, and method of visual login
</title>

<abstract>
Devices, systems, and methods of detecting user identity, differentiating between users of a computerized service, and detecting a possible attacker. A log-in process or a user-authentication process, is augmented or enriched by one or more incidental tasks, which force the user to perform additional on-screen interactions or input-unit interactions, which in turn enrich and augment the pool of user interactions from which the system extracts one or more user-specific features. The extracted user-specific features are used as part of the user authentication process, and are further used to differentiate among users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: (a) generating an interactions-enriched log-in process for authenticating a user of an electronic device, by generating a log-in process that requires the user: (i) to enter at least a password, and (ii) to perform an on-screen task that enriches an ability of a user-interactions tracker to extract a user-specific feature from user interactions while performing said on-screen task; (b) tracking the user interactions while the user performs said on-screen task of said interactions-enriched log-in process, and extracting from said user interactions a user-specific feature; (c) determining that said user is authenticated, based on at least a combination of: (c1) a determination whether the user-specific feature that was extracted from a manner in which the user performs said on-screen task as part of said interactions-enriched log-in process, matches a previously-extracted user-specific characteristic that was previously extracted from one or more previous log-in interactions that said user performed in one or more previous usage sessions via said interactions-enriched log-in process; and also (c2) a determination whether the password entered by the user matches a pre-defined reference password.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process requires the user to perform at least one of: (i) an on-screen drag-and-drop operation via a mouse; (ii) an on-screen drag-and-drop operation via a touch-pad; (iii) an on-screen drag-and-drop operation via a touch-screen.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process requires the user to perform at least one of: (i) a set of on-screen drag-and-drop operations via a mouse; (ii) a set of on-screen drag-and-drop operations via a touch-pad; (iii) a set of on-screen drag-and-drop operations via a touch-screen.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process requires the user to perform at least an on-screen drawing operation having an on-screen route that corresponds to at least a part of a particular shape.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process requires the user to perform at least an on-screen drawing operation having an on-screen route that corresponds to at least a part of a particular shape; wherein said user-specific feature indicates whether said user performs either (i) a clockwise on-screen drawing movement, or (ii) a counter-clockwise on-screen drawing movement.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process requires the user to perform at least on-screen tracing of an on-screen shape.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein said task, which is part of said interactions-enriched log-in process, is an invisible implicit challenge that said user respond to without knowing that a challenge-response process is taking place.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein said user-specific feature, that is extracted from user interactions while performing said on-screen task within said interactions-enriched log-in process, comprise at least a velocity of movement.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein said user-specific feature, that is extracted from user interactions while performing said on-screen task within said interactions-enriched log-in process, comprise at least acceleration or deceleration.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein said user-specific feature, that is extracted from user interactions while performing said on-screen task within said interactions-enriched log-in process, comprise at least curvature or linearity of movement.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein said user-specific feature, that is extracted from user interactions while performing said on-screen task within said interactions-enriched log-in process, comprise at least vibrations or shaking during movement.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein said interactions-enriched log-in process is performed via said electronic device which is a device selected from the group consisting of: a desktop computer, a laptop computer, a smartphone, a tablet, a touch-screen equipped device.
13. A system comprising: a hardware processor that is configured to perform: (a) generating an interactions-enriched log-in process for authenticating a user of an electronic device, by generating a log-in process that requires the user: (i) to enter at least a password, and (ii) to perform an on-screen task that enriches an ability of a user-interactions tracker to extract a user-specific feature from user interactions while performing said on-screen task; (b) tracking the user interactions while the user performs said on-screen task of said interactions-enriched log-in process, and extracting from said user interactions a user-specific feature; (c) determining that said user is authenticated, based on at least a combination of: (c1) a determination whether the user-specific feature that was extracted from a manner in which the user performs said on-screen task as part of said interactions-enriched log-in process, matches a previously-extracted user-specific characteristic that was previously extracted from one or more previous log-in interactions that said user performed in one or more previous usage sessions via said interactions-enriched log-in process; and also (c2) a determination whether the password entered by the user matches a pre-defined reference password.
14. A non-transitory storage medium having stored thereon instructions that, when executed by a hardware processor, causes the hardware processor to perform a method comprising: (a) generating an interactions-enriched log-in process for authenticating a user of an electronic device, by generating a log-in process that requires the user: (i) to enter at least a password, and (ii) to perform an on-screen task that enriches an ability of a user-interactions tracker to extract a user-specific feature from user interactions while performing said on-screen task; (b) tracking the user interactions while the user performs said on-screen task of said interactions-enriched log-in process, and extracting from said user interactions a user-specific feature; (c) determining that said user is authenticated, based on at least a combination of: (c1) a determination whether the user-specific feature that was extracted from a manner in which the user performs said on-screen task as part of said interactions-enriched log-in process, matches a previously-extracted user-specific characteristic that was previously extracted from one or more previous log-in interactions that said user performed in one or more previous usage sessions via said interactions-enriched log-in process; and also (c2) a determination whether the password entered by the user matches a pre-defined reference password.
</claims>
</document>
