<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/00,G06F16/2453,G06F16/335,G06F16/387,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G06N99/00,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MILLIUS, SEBASTIAN
FEUZ, SANDRO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59093629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Context aware chat history assistance using machine-learned models
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure provides systems and methods that leverage machine learning to implement context determination and/or text extraction in computing device applications. Particular embodiments can include and use a machine-learned text extraction model that has been trained to receive one or more messages containing text and determine one or more portions of extracted text from the one or more messages as well as a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text. In addition, or alternatively, particular embodiments can include and use a machine-learned context determination model that has been trained to receive one or more portions of device data from one or more input sources available at the mobile computing device and determine a current user context indicative of one or more activities in which a user of the mobile computing device is currently engaged.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A mobile computing device, comprising: at least one processor; a display screen; a machine-learned context determination model, wherein the context determination model has been trained to receive one or more portions of device data from one or more input sources accessible by the mobile computing device and determine a current user context indicative of one or more activities in which a user of the mobile computing device is currently engaged; at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the mobile computing device to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first set of one or more portions of device data from one or more input sources accessible by the mobile computing device; inputting the first set of one or more portions of device data into the machine-learned context determination model; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned context determination model, a determined user context; determining one or more portions of text from one or more applications of the mobile computing device that have an assigned user context that matches the determined user context; and providing the one or more portions of text for display on the display screen of the mobile computing device.
2. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein the determined user context is determined from a predetermined set of user contexts, each user context indicative of a different activity in which a user of the mobile computing device may be engaged.
3. The mobile computing device of claim 2, wherein the predetermined set of user contexts comprises respective contexts for one or more different activities including shopping or attending an event.
4. The mobile computing device of claim 2, wherein each different activity associated with a user context in the predetermined set of user contexts corresponds to a primary context and wherein the user context is further determined to include a secondary context associated with a category describing a particular aspect of the activity.
5. The mobile computing device of claim 1, further comprising one or more input sources configured to provide the device data, the input sources comprising one or more of a location sensor, a motion sensor, an audio sensor, an image sensor, and a calendar application.
6. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein determining one or more portions of text from one or more applications of the mobile computing device that have an assigned user context that matches the determined user context is determined periodically.
7. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein the one or more applications of the user computing device comprise one or more of a text messaging application, a chat messaging application, an email application, and a voicemail application.
8. The mobile computing device of claim 7, wherein the one or more portions of text are taken from a message thread between two or more parties.
9. The mobile computing device of claim 1, the operations further comprising: receiving signal instructions from a user descriptive of feedback regarding the one or more portions of text provided for display on the display screen of the mobile computing device; and providing the signal instructions from the user in conjunction with data describing the one or more portions of text provided for display on the display screen as training data for the machine-learned context determination model.
10. The mobile computing device of claim 1, wherein the step of determining the one or more portions of text from the one or more applications of the mobile computing device that have an assigned user context that matches the determined user context comprises: inputting the text from the one or more applications into a machine-learned text extraction model, the machine-learned text extraction model having been trained to receive one or more messages containing text and to determine one or more portions of extracted text from the one or more messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; and receiving, as an output of the machine-learned text extraction model, one or more portions of extracted text, wherein the user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text corresponds to the determined current user context.
11. A mobile computing device, comprising: at least one processor; a machine-learned text extraction model, wherein the text extraction model has been trained to receive one or more messages containing text and determine one or more portions of extracted text from the one or more messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; at least one tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium that stores instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the mobile computing device to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first set of messages containing text from one or more applications of the mobile computing device; inputting the first set of messages containing text into the machine-learned text extraction model; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned text extraction model, one or more portions of extracted text from the first set of messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; and providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to at least one corresponding user context as output.
12. The mobile computing device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise receiving signal instructions from a user indicative of a particular user context, and wherein providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to at least one corresponding user context as output comprises providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to the particular user context for display on a display screen of the mobile computing device.
13. The mobile computing device of claim 11, wherein the operations further comprise determining a current user context indicative of one or more activities in which a user of the mobile computing device is currently engaged, and wherein providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to at least one corresponding user category as output comprises providing at least one portion of extracted text corresponding to the current user context for display on a display screen.
14. The mobile computing device of claim 13, wherein determining the current user context comprises: obtaining a first set of one or more portions of device data from one or more input sources accessible by the mobile computing device; inputting the first set of one or more portions of device data into a machine-learned context determination model, wherein the context determination model has been trained to receive one or more portions of device data from the one or more input sources and determine a current user context indicative of one or more activities in which a user of the mobile computing device is currently engaged; and receiving, as an output of the machine-learned context determination model, a determined current user context.
15. The mobile computing device of claim 13, wherein the current user context is determined from a predetermined set of user contexts, each user context indicative of a different activity in which a user of the mobile computing device may be engaged, and optionally wherein the predetermined set of user contexts comprises respective contexts for one or more different activities including shopping or attending an event.
16. The mobile computing device of claim 15, wherein each different activity associated with a user context in the predetermined set of user contexts corresponds to a primary context and wherein the user context is further determined to include a secondary context associated with a category describing a particular aspect of the activity.
17. The mobile computing device of claim 13, further comprising one or more input sources configured to provide device data, the input sources comprising one or more of a location sensor, a motion sensor, an audio sensor, an image sensor, and a calendar application, and wherein the device data is employed at least in part to determine the current user context.
18. The mobile computing device of claim 11, wherein the obtaining, inputting and receiving operations are implemented periodically.
19. The mobile computing device of claim 11, wherein the one or more applications of the user computing device comprise one or more of a text messaging application, a chat messaging application, an email application, and a voicemail application.
20. The mobile computing device of claim 11, the operations further comprising: receiving signal instructions from a user descriptive of feedback regarding the at least one portion of extracted text provided as output; and providing the signal instructions from the user in conjunction with data describing the at least one portion of text provided as output as training data for the machine-learned text extraction model.
21. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first set of messages containing text from one or more applications of a mobile computing device; inputting the first set of messages containing text into a machine-learned text extraction model, wherein the text extraction model has been trained to receive one or more messages containing text and determine one or more portions of extracted text from the one or more messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned text extraction model, one or more portions of extracted text from the first set of messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; and providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to at least one corresponding user context as output.
22. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions of claim 21, wherein providing at least one portion of extracted text assigned to the at least one corresponding user context as output comprises providing the at least one portion of extracted text for display.
23. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions of claim 21, wherein the instructions further comprise: receiving signal instructions descriptive of feedback regarding the at least one portion of extracted text provided as output; and providing the signal instructions from the user in conjunction with data describing the at least one portion of extracted text provided as output as training data for the machine-learned text extraction model.
24. One or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer executable instructions that when executed by one or more processors cause the processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: obtaining a first set of one or more portions of device data from one or more input sources accessible by a mobile computing device; inputting the first set of one or more portions of device data into a machine-learned context determination model, wherein the context determination model has been trained to receive one or more portions of device data from the one or more input sources and determine a current user context indicative of one or more activities in which a user of the mobile computing device is currently engaged; receiving, as an output of the machine-learned context determination model, a determined current user context; determining one or more portions of text from one or more applications of the mobile computing device that are relevant to the determined user context; and providing the one or more portions of text for display on a display screen of the mobile computing device.
25. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions of claim 24, wherein determining one or more portions of text from one or more applications of the mobile computing device that are relevant to the determined user context comprises: inputting the text from the one or more applications into a machine-learned text extraction model, the machine-learned text extraction model being trained to receive one or more messages containing text and to determine one or more portions of extracted text from the one or more messages and a corresponding user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text; and receiving, as an output of the machine-learned text extraction model, one or more portions of extracted text, wherein the user context assigned to each of the one or more portions of extracted text corresponds to the determined current user context.
26. The one or more tangible, non-transitory computer-readable media storing computer-readable instructions of claim 24, wherein the instructions further comprise: receiving signal instructions descriptive of feedback regarding the one or more portions of text provided for display on the display screen of the mobile computing device; and providing the signal instructions from the user in conjunction with data describing the one or more portions of text provided for display on the display screen as training data for the machine-learned context determination model.
</claims>
</document>
