<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E05B45/06,G01V1/00,G01V1/16,G01V1/18,G01V1/30,G08B13/16,G08B25/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SensoGuard Ltd.
</assignee>

<inventors>
Levy, Tomer
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65409402
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Energy efficient seismic intrusion detection
</title>

<abstract>
Methods and a device for detecting physical intrusion are providing, the device including a vibration sensor, a processor, a transmitter, a battery, and a conductive wire connecting the vibration sensor and the processor. The vibration sensor is affixed to a first part of the device, and the processor, transmitter, and battery are affixed to a second part of the device. The first and second parts, when attached together, form a case containing the conductive wire. The device performs steps of: sampling a set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor, determining that the set of seismic signals matches a seismic threat pattern, and responsively issuing an intrusion alert.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device for physical intrusion detection, comprising: a vibration sensor, a processor, a transmitter, a battery, and a conductive wire connecting the vibration sensor and the processor, wherein the vibration sensor is affixed to a first part of the device, wherein the processor, transmitter, and battery are affixed to a second part of the device, wherein the first and second parts, when attached together, form a case containing the conductive wire, wherein according to a length of the conductive wire the first and second parts when separated are buriable at different depths, and wherein the device further comprises a memory comprising computer-readable instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform steps of: sampling a set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor; determining that the set of seismic signals matches a seismic threat pattern; and responsively transmitting, by the transmitter, an intrusion alert to a remote alarm controller.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the conductive wire is between 10 cm and 2 meters in length.
3. The device of claim 1, further comprising additional vibration sensors, connected by additional respective conductive wires to the processor and affixed to additional, separable parts of the device.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein determining that the set of seismic signals matches the seismic threat pattern comprises determining that a vibration level is greater than a predetermined vibration threshold.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein sampling the set of seismic signals comprises sampling according to a first precision setting including parameters of a sampling frequency, a sampling resolution, and an oversampling rate.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein determining that the set of seismic signals matches the seismic threat pattern comprises performing steps of: a. calculating a representative vibration level of the set of seismic signals; b. determining that the vibration level is greater than a predetermined vibration threshold and responsively changing a first precision setting to a second precision setting by increasing at least one of: a sampling frequency, a sampling resolution, and an oversampling rate; c. sampling, according to the second precision setting, a second set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor for a predetermined second sampling time period; d. comparing the second set of seismic signals to one or more stored seismic threat patterns; and e. responsively to determining a match between the second set of seismic signals and the one or more stored seismic threat patterns, issuing the intrusion alert.
7. The device of claim 6, wherein the processor is further configured, after issuing the intrusion alert, to determine that a subsequent set of seismic signals does not match the one or more of the stored seismic threat patterns and responsively to restore the first precision setting and to continue testing seismic signals.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein restoring the first precision setting after issuing the intrusion alert comprises decreasing the vibration threshold for a post-alarm time period.
9. A device for physical intrusion detection, comprising a vibration sensor, at least one processor, and a memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor, the memory comprising computer-readable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform steps of: a. sampling a first set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor, according to a first precision setting comprising parameters of a sampling frequency, a sampling resolution, and an oversampling rate; b. calculating a representative vibration level of the first set of seismic signals; c. determining that the vibration level is greater than a predetermined vibration threshold and responsively changing the first precision setting to a second precision setting by increasing at least one of the parameters of the sampling frequency, the sampling resolution, and the oversampling rate; d. sampling, according to the second precision setting, a second set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor for a predetermined second sampling time period; e. comparing the second set of seismic signals to one or more stored seismic threat patterns; and f. performing one of (1) issuing an intrusion alert, responsively to determining a correlation between the second set of seismic signals and the one or more stored seismic threat patterns, and (2) restoring the first precision setting and continuing to test seismic signals, responsively to determining no correlation.
10. The device according to claim 9, wherein comparing the second set of seismic signals to the one or more stored seismic threat patterns comprises filtering out noise from one or more of the seismic signals of the second set.
11. The device according to claim 9, wherein determining there is the correlation comprises determining a distance to a seismic vibration source, and issuing the intrusion alert comprises issuing an alert including a location and a probable intrusion.
12. The device according to claim 9, wherein determining there is the correlation comprises determining a correlation between the second set of seismic signals and each of the one or more stored seismic threat patterns and comparing each respective correlation with a preset probability threshold defining a minimum correlation for a match.
13. The device according to claim 9, wherein sampling the first set of seismic signals comprises sampling 15 to 100 samples and the second sampling time period is 5 to 30 seconds.
14. The device according to claim 9, further comprising, responsively to determining no correlation, increasing the vibration threshold for a post-event time period.
15. The device according to claim 9, further comprising, responsively to determining the correlation, decreasing the vibration threshold for a post-alarm time period.
16. The device according to claim 9, wherein calculating the vibration level comprises calculating a root mean square (RMS) value of the set of signals.
17. The device according to claim 9, wherein restoring the first precision setting comprises gradually decreasing, over a period of time, one or more of the precision setting parameters until the parameters equal to those of the first precision setting.
18. A method for detecting physical intrusion, implemented on at least one processor having at least one memory communicatively coupled to the at least one processor and comprising stored computer-readable instructions that when executed by the at least one processor cause the at least one processor to perform the method of: a. sampling a first set of seismic signals from a vibration sensor, according to a first precision setting comprising parameters of a sampling frequency, a sampling resolution, and an oversampling rate; b. calculating a representative vibration level of the first set of seismic signals; c. determining that the vibration level is greater than a predetermined vibration threshold and responsively changing the first precision setting to a second precision setting by increasing at least one of the parameters of the sampling frequency, the sampling resolution, and the oversampling rate; d. sampling, according to the second precision setting, a second set of seismic signals from the vibration sensor for a predetermined second sampling time period; e. comparing the second set of seismic signals to one or more stored seismic threat patterns; and f. performing one of (1) issuing an intrusion alert, responsively to determining a correlation, and (2) restoring the first precision setting and continuing to test seismic signals, responsively to determining no correlation.
</claims>
</document>
