<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/117,G10L17/00,G10L17/06,G10L25/78
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SRI INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHARYA, GIRISH
CASTAN LAVILLA, DIEGO
KNOTH, BRUCE H
ROGERS, JOSEPH B
SAHNER, DAVID
SHRIBERG, ELIZABETH
VERGYRI, DIMITRA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60477922
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Virtual health assistant for promotion of well-being and independent living
</title>

<abstract>
An electronic device for providing health information or assistance includes an input configured to receive at least one type of signal selected from sound signals, verbal signals, non-verbal signals, and combinations thereof, a communication module configured to send information related to the at least one user and his/her environment to a remote device, including the sound signals, non-verbal signals, and verbal signals, the remote device being configured to analyze a condition of the at least one user and communicate condition signals to the electronic device, a processing module configured to receive the condition signals and to cause the electronic device to engage in a passive monitoring mode or an active engagement and monitoring mode, the active engagement and monitoring mode including, but not limited to, verbal communication with the at least one user, and an output configured to engage the at least one user in verbal communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for providing health information or assistance, the system comprising: at least one electronic device configured to engage in verbal communication with at least one user based upon at least one type of signal selected from the group consisting of 1) sound signals from the at least one user's environment, 2) non-verbal signals from the at least one user, 3) verbal signals from the user; and 4) any combination of (1), (2), and (3), the electronic device comprising: an input module configured to receive the sound signals from the at least one user's environment, the non-verbal signals from the at least one user, and the verbal signals for the at least one user; a communication module configured to send information related to the at least one user and the at least one user's environment, including the sound signals, the non-verbal signals, and the verbal signals, to a remote device, and to subsequently receive condition signals from the remote device; a processing module configured to receive the condition signals and to cause the electronic device to operate in a passive monitoring mode or an active engagement and monitoring mode, the active engagement and monitoring mode including, but not limited to, verbal communication with the at least one user; an output configured to engage the at least one user in specific types of verbal communication selected from a group consisting of: 1) asking the at least one user a question; 2) providing related suggestions to the user; and 3) provide information to the user; and the remote device comprising: a remote communication module configured to receive the information related to the sound signals, the non-verbal signals, and the verbal signals from the at least one electronic device, and to subsequently send the condition signals to the at least one electronic device; and a rules module configured to determine, based on the sound signals, the non-verbal signals, and the verbal signals, a responsive action; wherein the responsive action is communicated from the remote device to the at least one electronic device in the form of the condition signals.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the electronic device and the remote device further comprises: a speaker identification module configured to identify and authenticate the at least one user.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the remote device further comprises: a temporal database configured to receive and store the information related to the at least one user and the at least one user's environment; and a decisions database configured to receive and store decisions from at least one health care provider.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the remote device further comprises: a training module configured to selectively retrieve the information related to the at least one user and the at least one user's environment from the temporal database, selectively retrieve the decisions from the at least one health care provider from the decisions database, and adapt the rules module using machine learning based on the retrieved information and decisions to increase accuracy of the responsive action.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one electronic device comprises a plurality of electronic devices, the at least one user comprises a plurality of users using the plurality of electronic devices, and wherein the training module is further configured to selectively retrieve information about each of the plurality of users and each of a plurality of users' environments, selectively retrieve decisions from at least one health care provider, and adapt the rules module using machine learning based on the retrieved information and decisions to increase accuracy of the responsive action.
6. The system of claim 3, wherein the communication module of the at least one electronic device is further configured to retrieve the information related to the at least one user, the at least one user's environment, and the decisions from the at least one health care provider, and the at least one electronic device further comprises: a report module configured to produce a report to the at least one user regarding the information related to the at least one user, the at least one user's environment, and the decisions from the at least one health care provider.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein, when operating in the passive monitoring mode, a remote device processing module is configured to: analyze the sound signals to extract passive user information; determine, from the passive user information, whether an active trigger event has occurred; and upon determining that the active trigger event has occurred, cause the electronic device to transition to the active engagement and monitoring mode.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein, upon transitioning to the active engagement and monitoring mode: the processing module is configured to engage the at least one user via the verbal communication through the output; and the remote device processing module is configured to verify and augment the passive user information through the verbal communication with the user.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein, upon transitioning to the active engagement and monitoring mode, the remote device processing module is further configured to: analyze a sound signal from an input to extract active user information associated with a communication with the at least one user; and determine, from both the passive user information and the active user information, an active engagement response.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein, upon transitioning to the active engagement and monitoring mode, the remote device processing module is further configured to: determine, via the verbal communication, whether the active engagement response has been completed; and upon determining that the active engagement response has been completed, cause the electronic device to transition to the passive monitoring mode.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the rules module adapts the verbal communication through the output in real time based on one of the passive user information and the active user information.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein an adaptation of the verbal communication comprises changes in questions asked or a way questions are asked to the at least one user based on changes in a condition of the at least one user detected in one of the passive user information and the active user information.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the non-verbal signals are selected from the group consisting of: pitch, speed, tone, volume of voice, intonation, inflection, or other sounds that do not include words.
14. The system of claim 7 or 9, wherein the step of analyzing the sound signals comprises at least one of analyzing speech pattern, intonation, data about the at least one user, data about the at least one user's environment, sound signals in the at least one user's environment, sounds created by the at least one user, and does not include analyzing key words.
15. The system of claim 9, wherein, while engaging the at least one user via the verbal communication regarding the active trigger event, the rules module adapts future engagements regarding related trigger events based on information acquired during the verbal communication regarding the active trigger event.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein, while engaging the at least one user via the verbal communication, the processing module is configured to analyze both verbal signals and non-verbal signals.
17. The system of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of electronic devices is configured to produce a report and, subsequent to the training module adapting the rules module, the at least one health care provider makes a decision based on the report.
18. The system of claim 5, wherein machine learning performed by the training module uses a model based on information retrieved from the temporal database and decisions retrieved from the decisions database, and the model is subsequently trained based on input from the at least one health care provider.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the model is based on information from multiple users, thereby providing a larger data set.
20. The system of claim 5, wherein each of the plurality of electronic devices is configured to produce a report and each of the plurality of users inputs information into a corresponding one of the plurality of electronic devices and receives output information from the corresponding one of the plurality of electronic devices.
</claims>
</document>
