<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-10-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
DENBO, TODD LAWRENCE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62874441
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Customized lending product system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes providing an application form configured for electronic display and data entry, receiving loan application data via the form, and providing selectable lending product features based on the loan application data. The selectable lending product features include an approved range of selectable credit options. Each of the selectable credit options has a different associated amount of required collateral. The method also includes receiving feature selection data. The feature selection data includes a selection of at least one of the selectable credit options. The method further includes providing a customized lending product based on the feature selection data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for providing a customized lending product via graphical user interface displayed in a client device, comprising: providing, by processing circuitry of a financial institution computing system and to the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, an electronic loan application form comprising personal, financial and asset input data of a user; receiving, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system and from the client device, loan application data, the loan application data comprising user inputs provided via the electronic loan application form; identifying, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system, one or more lending products offered by a financial institution that the user qualifies for based on the received loan application data; pre-approving, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system, the user for each of the one or more identified lending products; providing, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system and to the client device, selectable lending product features via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, each of the selectable lending product features relating to the one or more identified, pre-approved lending products and including a range of selectable credit amounts, each of the selectable credit amounts having a different collateral requirement; receiving, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system from the client device, feature selection data provided by the user via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device; selecting, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system, a pre-approved customized lending product from the one or more identified, pre-approved lending products based on the feature selection data; and providing, by the processing circuitry of the financial institution computing system to the client device, a webpage configured to be displayed by the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, the webpage confirming details of the pre-approved customized lending product and including an indication of a selected credit amount including any associated collateral requirements for the pre-approved customized lending product.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein identifying the one or more lending products that the user qualifies for includes evaluating, by the financial institution computing system, the loan application data against lending criteria of lending products offered by the financial institution.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the feature selection data includes receiving a selection of one of a loan and a line of credit.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the pre-approved customized lending product includes providing at least one of an interest rate and a payment amount.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the feature selection data includes receiving a selection requesting card access to the customized lending product.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic loan application form includes a selection of at least one of real property, tangible personal property and intangible personal property that the user is willing to provide as collateral.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein providing the electronic loan application form, the selectable lending product features, and the pre-approved customized lending product includes providing the electronic loan application form, the selectable lending product features, and the pre-approved customized lending product via an online financial institution website.
8. A financial institution computer system associated with a financial institution, the financial institution computer system comprising: processing circuitry; and machine readable storage media having instructions stored therein that, when executed by the processing circuitry, cause the processing circuitry to: provide, to a graphical user interface of a client device, an electronic loan application form, the electronic loan application form comprising user personal, financial and asset input data of a user; receive, from the client device, loan application data, the loan application data comprising user inputs provided via the electronic loan application form; identify, based on the loan application data, one or more lending products offered by the financial institution that the user qualifies for; pre-approve the user for each of the one or more identified lending products; provide, to the client device, selectable lending product features via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, each of the selectable lending product features relating to the one or more identified, pre-approved lending products and including a range of selectable credit amounts, each of the selectable credit amounts having a different collateral requirement; receive, from the client device, feature selection data provided by the user via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device; select, from the one or more identified, pre-approved lending products, a pre-approved customized lending product based on the feature selection data; and provide, to the client device, a webpage configured to be displayed by the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, the webpage confirming details of the pre-approved customized lending product and including an indication of a selected credit amount including any associated collateral requirements for the pre-approved customized lending product.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the provided selectable lending product features include a selection of a loan and a line of credit.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the provided selectable lending product features include a selection requesting card access to a customized lending product.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the electronic loan application form includes a section requesting a selection of types of collateral the user is willing to provide as collateral.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the selection of types of collateral include at least one of a savings account, a certificate of deposit, an automobile, and real estate.
13. A non-transitory computer readable media having computer-executable instructions embodied therein that, when executed by a processor of a computing system, cause the computing system to perform operations to provide a customized lending product via a graphical user interface displayed in a client device, the operations comprising: providing, to the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, an electronic loan application form comprising user personal, financial and asset input data of a user; receiving, from the client device, loan application data, the loan application data comprising user inputs provided via the electronic loan application form; identifying one or more lending products offered by a financial institution that the user qualifies for based on an evaluation of the received loan application data; pre-approving the user for each of the one or more identified lending products; providing, to the client device, selectable lending product features via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device, each of the selectable lending product features relating to the one or more identified lending products and including a range of selectable credit amounts, each of the selectable credit amounts having a different collateral requirement; receiving, from the client device, feature selection data provided by the user via the graphical user interface displayed in the client device; selecting a pre-approved customized lending product from the one or more identified, pre-approved lending products based on the feature selection data; and providing, to the client device, a webpage configured to be displayed by the graphical user interface displayed in the client-device, the webpage confirming details of the pre-approved customized lending product and including an indication of a selected credit amount including any associated collateral requirements for the pre-approved customized lending product.
14. A method, comprising: The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 13, further comprising providing, by the financial institution computing system, selectable lending product features including at least one of a loan and a line of credit.
15. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 13, wherein providing the detail details of the pre-approved customized lending product includes providing at least one of an interest rate and a monthly payment amount.
16. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 13, further comprising providing, by the financial institution computing system, selectable lending product features including a selection for card access to the customized lending product.
17. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 13, the received loan application data includes a user input regarding at least one of a savings account, a certificate of deposit, an automobile, and real estate that the user is willing to provide as collateral.
18. The non-transitory computer readable media of claim 13, wherein the loan application data and the feature selection data are received via an online financial institution website.
</claims>
</document>
