<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K7/06,G06K7/10,G06K7/12,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NCR CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
CROOKS, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74067081
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Produce identification methods and device
</title>

<abstract>
A controlled image sample is obtained of a produce item. The controlled image sample may be captured using an integrated camera of a mobile device or by a specialized produce image meter from a handheld scanning device. The image sample is processed to obtain a produce signature that is unique to a type of produce associated with the image sample. The produce signature is matched to a specific produce identifier and the produce identifier is added to a list of items being purchased by a shopper through a self-shopping system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: controlling an image device integrated within a second device upon an activation event detected from the second device; capturing an image sample of a target item by the image device, wherein capturing further includes capturing the image sample after determining that the target item is at an optimal distance from the image device based on a sharpness, a contrast, and a focus of the image sample reported by the image device as compared against a predefined threshold to ensure that a dominant illumination for the image sample comes from the image device and not from ambient light associated with surroundings of the target item; generating a signature that uniquely identifies the target item from the image sample; and obtain an identifier for the target item based on the signature.
2. The method of claim 1 wherein controlling further includes detecting the activation event as a squeezed trigger pressed on the second device, wherein the second device is a handheld scanner and produce identifier device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein detecting further includes activating a spot color meter as the image device, wherein the handheld scanner and produce identifier includes a scanner for scanning barcodes of items and the scanner is separate from the spot color meter.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling further includes detecting the activation event as a button activation made within a user-facing interface of a mobile application that executes on the second device, wherein the second device is a mobile device.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein detecting further includes changing a mode of operation of the image device from auto-exposure mode with illumination off to white illumination with fixed exposure and fixed macro focus, wherein the image device is an integrated camera of the mobile device.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein capturing further includes performing color corrections on the image sample based on a model type associated with the mobile device.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein capturing further includes performing color corrections on the image sample based on a mobile device identifier for the mobile device.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein capturing further includes performing color corrections on the image sample based on results of a color calibration performed by the mobile device.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein generating further includes averaging color pixel values within the image sample to generate the signature.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein generating further includes generating the signature based on one or more of: color pixel values present in the image sample, textures identified from pixel values of the image sample, and shapes identified from the pixels of the image sample.
11. A method, comprising: activating an image device based on detection of an event generated during a self-shopping session with a self-shopping system; controlling the image device and capturing an image of a produce item that is being added to a shopping cart during the self-shopping session, wherein controlling further includes capturing the image after determining that the produce item is at an optimal distance from the image device based on a sharpness, a contrast, and a focus of the image reported by the image device as compared against a predefined threshold to ensure that a dominant illumination for the image comes from the image device and not from ambient light associated with surroundings of the produce item; generating an image signature for the image; searching an image signature data store for the image signature; providing at least one produce identifier for the produce item based on the searching; and recording the at least one produce item in the shopping cart.
12. The method of claim 11 further comprising, recoding audit images captured by the image device before the event and after the event for a configured amount of time.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein controlling further includes changing a mode of operation for the image device, wherein the image device is a camera integrated into a mobile device.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein changing further includes restoring the camera back to the mode of operation after the image is captured by the camera.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein controlling further includes activating a spot color meter as a device integrated into a handheld scanner and produce identification device, wherein the produce scanning and identification device includes a separate scanner device for item barcode scanning during the self-shopping session.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein providing further includes displaying a list of candidate produce item identifiers on a device operated by a shopper, wherein the candidate produce item identifiers represent the at least one produce identifier.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein recording further includes receiving a selection from the candidate produce item identifiers from the device as selected by the shopper and recording a selection identifier for the selection as the at least one produce identifier in the shopping cart.
18. A handheld scanner with produce identifier device, comprising: a scanner; a spot color meter; a trigger; a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium comprising executable instructions: the executable instructions when executed by the processor from the non-transitory computer-readable storage medium cause the processor to: scan barcodes placed in view of the scanner; provide item identifiers for the barcodes to a shopping cart associated with a self-shopping transaction; activate the spot color meter when the trigger is activated; capture an image sample, by the spot color meter, of a produce item after determining that the produce item is at an optimal distance from the spot meter based on a sharpness, a contrast, and a focus of the image sample reported by the spot meter as compared against a predefined threshold to ensure that a dominant illumination for the image sample comes from the spot meter and not from ambient light associated with surroundings of the produce item; cause an image signature to be generated from the image sample that uniquely identifies the produce item and provides a produce identifier to the shopping cart for the self-shopping transaction; and deactivate the spot color meter after the image sample is captured or when the trigger is released.
19. The handheld scanner with produce identifier device of claim 18 further comprising an aperture in front of the scanner and the spot color meter, the aperture enclosed in a housing.
</claims>
</document>
