<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/901,G06F16/903,G06F16/951,G06F17/27,G06F40/205,G06F40/30,G06N3/08,G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OATH CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOENKA, MOHIT
DHARAMSHI, ASHISH KHUSHAL
VARMA, NIKITA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66697521
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated network account transfers based on determined inactivity
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, devices, and methods for automating network account transfers based on predicted inactivity are disclosed. In one embodiment, the system comprises a mail server providing access to an email account of a user; a social graph monitor configured to: periodically query, over a network, a social graph associated with the user to retrieve at least one social network feed associated with the user, calculate a sentiment score for the social network feed based on parsing the social network feed using a natural language parser, and determining that a transfer condition has occurred if the sentiment score exceeds a pre-defined sentiment score threshold; and a condition processor configured to: transmit, via the mail server, a password reset request to a network application associated with the transfer condition, intercept an email from the network application, via the mail server, transmitted in response to the password reset request, forward, via the mail server, the email to a recipient associated with the transfer condition, determine that the recipient has reset a password associated with the network application, and forward, to the recipient via the mail server, subsequent emails from the network application.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a mail server providing access to an email account of a user; a social graph monitor configured to: periodically query, over a network, a social graph associated with the user to retrieve at least one social network feed associated with the user, calculate a sentiment score for the social network feed based on parsing the social network feed using a natural language parser, and determine that a transfer condition has occurred if the sentiment score exceeds a pre-defined sentiment score threshold; and a condition processor configured to: transmit, via the mail server, a password reset request to a network application associated with the transfer condition, intercept an email from the network application, via the mail server, transmitted in response to the password reset request, forward, via the mail server, the email to a recipient associated with the transfer condition, determine that the recipient has reset a password associated with the network application, and forward, to the recipient via the mail server, subsequent emails from the network application.
2. A method comprising: periodically querying, via a mail server, over a network, a social graph associated with a user to retrieve at least one social network feed associated with the user; calculating, via the mail server, a sentiment score for the social network feed based on parsing the social network feed using a natural language parser; determining, via the mail server, that a transfer condition has occurred if the sentiment score exceeds a pre-defined sentiment score threshold; verifying, via the mail server, that the transfer condition is a valid condition; retrieving, via the mail server, a set of transfer rules associated with the user and the transfer condition, each transfer rule associated with a recipient user and a network application used by the user and including one or more instructions defining operations to execute regarding the respective network application; and executing, via the mail server, a transfer for each of the transfer rules, the executing a transfer comprising rerouting communications from the network application associated with the transfer rule to the recipient user, the rerouting performed by executing the operations in the transfer rules using an application programming interface of the network applications.
3. The method of claim 2, the periodically querying a social graph further comprising retrieving one or more posts from a social network feed and filtering the one or more posts based on an identity of a posting user.
4. The method of claim 3, the calculating a sentiment score further comprising: converting a post of the one or more posts into a word vector; transmitting the word vector for each of the one or more posts to the natural language parser; and generating a sentiment score for the post based on the outputs of the natural language parser.
5. The method of claim 4, the natural language parser comprising a neural network or deep neural network.
6. The method of claim 2, the verifying that the transfer condition is a valid condition comprising: transmitting a notification to the user via a contact method associated with the user; and identifying the transfer condition as invalid upon receiving a response to the notification.
7. The method of claim 2, the executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules comprises transmitting a set of digital account details to the recipient user, the digital account details comprising account details stored by the network application.
8. The method of claim 2, further comprising enabling an auto-responder in response to verifying that the transfer condition is a valid condition.
9. The method of claim 2, the executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising: retrieving one or more assets associated with a network account included in the transfer rule via an API; segmenting the one or more assets based on a list of recipients and asset types included within the transfer rule; and transmitting the segmented assets to each recipient in the list of recipients.
10. The method of claim 2, the executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising: transmitting a password reset request to a network application associated with the transfer condition; intercepting an email from the network application transmitted in response to the password reset request; forwarding the email to the recipient user associated with the transfer condition; determining that the recipient user has reset a password associated with the network application; and forwarding, to the recipient user, subsequent emails from the network application.
11. The method of claim 2, the executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising granting access to the user's email account to the recipient user.
12. A mail server comprising: a processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for tangibly storing thereon program logic for execution by the processor, the stored program logic comprising: logic for periodically querying, over a network, a social graph associated with a user to retrieve at least one social network feed associated with the user; logic for calculating a sentiment score for the social network feed based on parsing the social network feed using a natural language parser; logic for determining that a transfer condition has occurred if the sentiment score exceeds a pre-defined sentiment score threshold; logic for verifying that the transfer condition is a valid condition; logic for retrieving a set of transfer rules associated with the user and the transfer condition, each transfer rule associated with a recipient user and a network application used by the user and including one or more instructions defining operations to execute regarding the respective network application; and logic for executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules, executing a transfer comprises rerouting communications from the network application associated with the transfer rule to the recipient user, the rerouting performed by executing the operations in the transfer rules using an application programming interface of the network applications.
13. The mail server of claim 12, the logic for periodically querying a social graph further comprising logic for retrieving one or more posts from a social network feed and filtering the one or more posts based on an identity of a posting user.
14. The mail server of claim 13, the logic for calculating a sentiment score further comprising: logic for converting a post of the one or more posts into a word vector; logic for transmitting the word vector for each of the one or more posts to the natural language parser; and logic for generating a sentiment score for the post based on the outputs of the natural language parser.
15. The mail server of claim 14, the natural language parser comprising a neural network or deep neural network.
16. The mail server of claim 12, the logic for verifying that the transfer condition is a valid condition further comprising: logic for transmitting a notification to the user via a contact method associated with the user; and logic for identifying the transfer condition as invalid upon receiving a response to the notification.
17. The mail server of claim 12, the executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules comprises transmitting a set of digital account details to the recipient user, the digital account details comprising account details stored by the network application.
18. The mail server of claim 12, the logic for executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising: logic for retrieving one or more assets associated with a network account included in the transfer rule via an API; logic for segmenting the one or more assets based on a list of recipients and asset types included within the transfer rule; and logic for transmitting the segmented assets to each recipient in the list of recipients.
19. The mail server of claim 12, the logic for executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising: logic for transmitting a password reset request to a network application associated with the transfer condition; logic for intercepting an email from the network application transmitted in response to the password reset request; logic for forwarding the email to the recipient user associated with the transfer condition; logic for determining that the recipient user has reset a password associated with the network application; and logic for forwarding, to the recipient user, subsequent emails from the network application.
20. The mail server of claim 12, the logic for executing a transfer for each of the transfer rules further comprising logic for granting access to the user's email account to the recipient user.
</claims>
</document>
