<document>

<filing_date>
2014-07-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2008-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/28,G06F17/30,G06F3/048,G06Q10/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GUPTA ANOOP
CURTIS, PAVEL
OZZIE,RAYMOND E.
NORLANDER, REBECCA
CZERWINSKI MARY P.
BARGA, ROGER S.
MCANIFF, RICHARD J
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
43648617
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Single device with multiple personas
</title>

<abstract>
A single device that receives communications, resources, data, and/or other information intended for a user having multiple contact addresses is provided. The single device can receive various information intended for multiple telephone numbers, email aliases, screen names, aliases, other means of contact, or combinations thereof. The device can selectively forward the information to the user based on a current user role, user preferences, contact information, or based on other criteria. If information is to be forwarded to the user at substantially the same time as receipt, automatic means of notifying the user of the role for which the communication is intended are provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more computer storage media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform actions comprising: accepting, from a sender, information intended for a device of a user; determining, from a plurality of user roles, an intended user role associated with the accepted information, the determining including comparing the sender with data contained in a contact database to ascertain the intended user role, each contact having an assigned user role of the plurality of user roles, the assigned user role assigned by the user; determining, after accepting the information from the sender, a current user role associated with the device based on a particular application stored on the device and based on the particular application being opened by the user after accepting the information from the sender, the particular application being previously associated with a particular user role of the plurality of user roles based on the particular application being previously opened by the user after accepting previous information from the sender; and determining whether the intended user role matches the current user role, thereby allowing the user to selectively use resources of the device of the user based on a user role.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the actions further comprise: presenting the accepted information in response to determining that the intended user role matches the current user role.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the actions further comprise: storing the accepted information in response to determining that the intended user role does not match the current user role.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the actions further comprise: presenting the accepted information in response to determining that a change in the current user role causes the intended user role to match the current user role.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the particular application stored on the device and the particular application being opened by the user after accepting the information from the sender resulted in a transition from a first previous user role to a second previous user role.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the particular application stored on the device and the particular application being opened by the user after accepting the information from the sender resulted in a confirmation that a previous current user role was accurate.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the particular application stored on the device and the particular application being opened by the user after accepting the information from the sender comprises opening a work-related software application.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the particular application stored on the device and the particular application being opened by the user after accepting the information from the sender comprises opening a personal software application.
9. A method comprising: receiving first data previously sent to a device of a user; receiving second data sent to the device of the user; determining, from a plurality of user roles using a support vector machine, an intended user role associated with the device based on at least one key phrase of the second data and based on the at least one key phrase of the second data being similar to at least one key phrase of the first data; determining a current role associated with the device based on the determining that the at least one key phrase of the second data is similar to the at least one key phrase of the first data, and based on a previous activity engaged in by the user in response to the receiving the first data, the previous activity including opening a particular type of application among a plurality of types of applications in response to receiving the first data, the plurality of types of applications including a work application and a personal application, and the particular type of application being previously associated with a particular user role of the plurality of user roles; and determining whether the intended user role matches the current user role, thereby allowing the user to selectively use resources of the device of the user based on a user role.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: presenting the second data in response to determining that the intended user role matches the current user role.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: storing the second data in response to determining that the intended user role does not match the current user role.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: presenting the second data in response to determining that a change in the current user role causes the intended user role to match the current user role.
13. The method of 9, wherein the intended user role is selected from the plurality of user roles.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the intended user role comprises at least one of a work role and a personal role.
15. One or more non-transitory computer storage media storing computer-executable instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform actions comprising: receiving, by a user device, a communication from a sender; determining, from a plurality of user roles, an intended user role associated with the communication, the determining including comparing the sender with data contained in a contact database to ascertain the intended user role, each contact having an assigned user role of the plurality of user roles, the assigned user role assigned by the user; determining, after receiving the communication from the sender, a current user role associated with the user device based on a particular application stored on the user device and based on the particular application being opened by the user after receiving the communication from the sender, the particular application being previously associated with a particular user role of the plurality of user roles based on the particular application being previously opened by the user after receiving a previous communication from the sender; and determining whether the intended user role matches the current user role, thereby allowing the user to selectively use resources of the device of the user based on a user role; and presenting the communication in response to determining that the intended user role matches the current user role.
16. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 15, wherein the actions further comprise: storing the communication in response to determining that the intended user role does not match the current user role.
17. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 16, wherein the actions further comprise: presenting the communication in response to determining that a change in the current user role causes the intended user role to match the current user role.
18. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 15, wherein the particular application stored on the device and the particular application being opened by the user after receiving the communication from the sender resulted in a transition from a first previous user role to a second previous user role.
19. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 15, wherein the particular application being opened by the user after receiving the communication from the sender comprises opening a work-related software application.
20. The one or more non-transitory computer storage media of claim 15, wherein the particular application being previously opened by the user after receiving a previous communication from the sender resulted in a confirmation that a previous current user role was accurate.
</claims>
</document>
