<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/32,G06F15/173,G06F15/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRAPHCORE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FELIX, STEPHEN
MANGNALL, JONATHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60481907
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Direction indicator
</title>

<abstract>
An indication of a direction of transmission over the switching fabric is inserted into a data packet that is transmitted from a tile. The indication of direction may indicate directions from the transmitting tile in which intended recipient tiles are present. The switching fabric prevents (e.g. by blocking the data packet at one of a series of latches) the transmission in a direction not indicated in the data packet. Hence, power saving may be achieved, by preventing the unnecessary transmission of data packets over parts of the switching fabric.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer comprising: a plurality of processing units each having instruction storage holding a local program, an execution unit executing the local program, data storage for holding data; an input interface with a set of input wires, and an output interface with a set of output wires; a switching fabric connected to each of the processing units by the respective set of output wires and connectable to each of the processing units by the respective input wires via switching circuitry controllable by each processing unit; a synchronisation module operable to generate a synchronisation signal wherein the processing units are configured to execute their local programs according to a common clock, the local programs being such that in an exchange phase at least one processing unit is configured to transmit at a transmit time, relative to the synchronization signal, a data packet intended for a recipient processing unit onto its output set of connection wires, the data packet having no destination identifier of the recipient processing unit, wherein the data packet is destined for receipt at the recipient processing unit with a predetermined delay relative to the transmit time, the predetermined delay based on a transmission distance between the at least one processing unit and the recipient unit.
2. A computer as claimed in claim 1, wherein each data packet includes an indication of at least one direction of transmission on the switching fabric.
3. A computer as claimed in claim 2, wherein the switching fabric is configured to, in response to determining that the indication of the at least one direction indicates that the data is not for transmission in a first direction, prevent the transmission of the data packet in the first direction.
4. A computer as claimed in claim 2, wherein the indication as to whether or not the data packet is for transmission in the at least one direction comprises a flag in a header of the data packet.
5. A computer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the switching fabric comprises a plurality of temporary stores at which the data packet is held during transmission between the at least one processing unit and the recipient processing unit.
6. A computer as claimed in claim 5, wherein each of the temporary stores comprises at least one of: a latch; and a flip flop.
7. A computer as claimed in claim 5, wherein each of the temporary stores is configured to hold the data packet for one cycle of the common clock.
8. A computer as claimed in claim 2 wherein the indication of the at least one direction comprises: an indication as to whether or not the data packet is for transmission in a first direction on the switching fabric; and an indication as to whether or not the data packet is for transmission in a second direction on the switching fabric: wherein the computer further comprises an additional recipient processing unit that is destined to receive the data packet, and the at least one processing unit is configured to set the indication of the at least one direction to indicate that the data packet is for transmission in the first direction and the second direction.
9. A computer as claimed in claim 2 wherein the indication of the at least one direction comprises: an indication as to whether or not the data packet is for transmission in a first direction on the switching fabric; and an indication as to whether or not the data packet is for transmission in a second direction on the switching fabric: wherein the at least one processing unit is configured to set the indication of the at least one direction to indicate that the data packet is for transmission in only one of the first direction and the second direction.
10. A computer as claimed in claim 1, wherein the switching circuitry comprises a multiplexer associated with the recipient processing unit, wherein the multiplexer is configured to receive the data packet transmitted on the switching fabric for delivery to the recipient processing unit.
11. A computer as claimed in claim 10, wherein each multiplexer has an exit set of output wires connected to its associated processing unit, and multiple sets of input wires connected to the switching fabric whereby one of the multiple sets of input wires is selected as controlled by its associated processing unit to receive the data packet at a receive time at the predetermined delay.
12. A computer according to claim 1, wherein one of the sets of input wires is connected to a null input.
13. A method for transferring a data packet from a first processing unit to a second processing unit within a computer, the method comprising: executing a send instruction by the first processing unit to transmit at a transmit time a data packet onto an output set of wires, the data packet being destined for the second processing unit, the data packet including an indication of a direction of transmission on a switching fabric; preventing the data packet from being transmitted over the switching fabric in a direction different from the direction indicated in the data packet; passing the data packet over the switching fabric in the direction indicated in the data packet, wherein the data packet is destined for receipt at the second processing unit with a predetermined delay relative to the transmit time and based on a transmission distance between the first processing unit and the second processing unit; and receiving the data packet at the second processing unit.
14. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein preventing the data packet from being transmitted comprises: at a temporary store of the switching fabric, blocking transmission of the data packet through the switching fabric in the direction different from the direction indicated in the data packet.
15. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein passing the data packet over the switching fabric comprises: holding the data packet in a temporary store of the switching fabric for one clock cycle of a clock common to the first processing unit and the second processing unit.
16. A method as claimed in claim 13, wherein the indication of direction of transmission comprises a flag in a header of the data packet.
17. A computer program comprising instructions recorded on non-transitory media which when executed by a computer implement a method comprising: executing a send instruction by a first processing unit of the computer to transmit at a transmit time a data packet onto an output set of wires, the data packet being destined for a second processing unit of the computer, the data packet including an indication of a direction of transmission on a switching fabric of the computer; transmitting the data packet to the switching fabric, wherein the data packet is destined for receipt at the second processing unit with a predetermined delay relative to the transmit time and based on a transmission distance between the first processing unit and the second processing unit; and receiving the data packet at the second processing unit according to the predetermined delay.
18. A computer program as claimed in claim 17, wherein the indication of direction of transmission comprises a flag in a header of the data packet.
19. A computer program as claimed in claim 17, wherein the data packet has no destination identifier for the second processing unit.
20. A computer program as claimed in claim 17, wherein the send instruction is executed after a synchronization signal causes the computer to switch from a compute phase to an exchange phase, according to a Bulk Synchronous Parallel (BSP) protocol.
21. A computer program as claimed in claim 17, wherein the switching fabric comprises a plurality of temporary stores arranged in an East-West direction, and wherein the first processing unit and the second processing unit are arranged in at least one North-South array of a plurality of processing units, and wherein the direction indicated in the data packet is East or West.
</claims>
</document>
