<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60Q1/00,B60W30/09,B60W40/08,B60W40/10,B60W50/14,G06K9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
NATH, NITENDRA
SORSBY, RYAN
TEEMS, JUSTIN
WEGIENKA, KEVIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72141076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Driver awareness detection system
</title>

<abstract>
A determination that a driver of a vehicle is directed to a non on-road zone based on at least one of a head pose or an eye gaze of a driver. Based on the non on-road zone, a probability is determined that the driver does not transition from the non on-road zone to an on-road zone based on the non on-road zone. The probability is adjusted when the driver is directed to the non on-road zone for a time period that exceeds a predetermined time threshold. A warning is generated within the vehicle based on the adjusted probability.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for a vehicle comprising a computer including a processor and a memory, the memory including instructions when executed by the processor such that the processor is programmed to: determine that a driver of the vehicle is directed to a non on-road zone based on at least one of a head pose or an eye gaze of the driver depicted within an image, wherein the non on-road zone is mapped to at least one category of a plurality of categories, each category of the plurality of categories representing a different probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze does not transition from the non on-road zone to an on-road zone based on the non on-road zone; determine a probability based on the mapped category; adjust the probability when the driver is directed to the non on-road zone for a time period that exceeds a predetermined time threshold by incrementing the probability by a predetermined amount for every time unit that is greater than the predetermined time threshold; and generate a warning within the vehicle based on the adjusted probability when the adjusted probability is greater than a probability threshold.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: actuate at least one vehicle system of the vehicle based on the warning.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the actuation of the at least one vehicle system causes the vehicle to decelerate.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: generate the warning at an infotainment device of the vehicle.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: determine a type of warning to generate based on at least one of a length of the time period exceeding the predetermined time threshold or a vehicle parameter, wherein the vehicle parameter comprises at least one a distance between the vehicle and another vehicle, a yaw rate of the vehicle, or a velocity of the vehicle, wherein the type of warning comprises at least one of a visual warning or an audible warning.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: receive the image depicting the driver from a camera disposed within the vehicle; and determine that the driver of the vehicle is directed to the non on-road zone based on the image.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the processor is further programmed to: determine that the driver of the vehicle is directed to the non on-road zone via a deep neural network that classifies the image.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the deep neural network comprises a convolutional neural network.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein a first category of the plurality of categories comprises an on-road right zone and a cluster zone; a second category of the plurality of categories comprises a console zone, a driver mirror zone, an off-road zone, a passenger foot well zone, a passenger mirror zone, and a rear mirror zone; and a third category of the plurality of categories comprises a driver lap zone, wherein each zone corresponds to a respective probability that contributes to a probability assigned to a respective category.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the probability is defined by P(Inattentive)=1−P(OnRoad), where P(Inattentive) represents the probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze does not transition from the non on-road zone to the on-road zone based on the non on-road zone and P(OnRoad) represents a probability the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze transitioning from the non on-road zone to the on-road zone based on the non on-road zone.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the P(OnRoad) is defined by P(OnRoad)=P1(OnRoad)+P2(OnRoad)+P3(OnRoad), where P1(OnRoad) represents a probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze is directed to the on-road zone given a first non on-road category, P2(OnRoad) represents a probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze is directed to the on-road zone given a second non on-road category, and P3(OnRoad) represents a probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze is directed to the on-road zone given a third non on-road category.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further programmed to: determine whether the at least one of the head pose or the eye gaze of the driver has changed when the adjusted probability is less than or equal to the probability threshold; and then determine that the driver of the vehicle is directed to another non on-road zone based on at least one of the head pose or the eye gaze of the driver.
13. A computer method performed by a system of a vehicle to generate a warning to re-engage a driver of the vehicle, the system comprising a computer including a processor and a memory, the memory including instructions when executed by the processor such that the processor is programed to perform: determining that the driver of the vehicle is directed to a non on-road zone based on at least one of a head pose or an eye gaze of driver depicted within an image, wherein the non on-road zone is mapped to at least one category of a plurality of categories, each category of the plurality of categories representing a different probability that the driver's head pose and/or eye gaze does not transition from the non on-road zone to an on-road zone based on the non on-road zone; determining a probability based on the mapped category; adjusting the probability when the driver is directed to the non on-road zone for a time period that exceeds a predetermined time threshold by incrementing the probability by a predetermined amount for every time unit that is greater than the predetermined time threshold; and generating a warning within the vehicle based on the adjusted probability when the adjusted probability is greater than a probability threshold.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: actuating at least one vehicle system of the vehicle based on the warning.
15. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining a type of warning to generate based on at least one of a length of the time period exceeding the predetermined time threshold or a vehicle parameter, wherein the vehicle parameter comprises at least one a distance between the vehicle and another vehicle, a yaw rate of the vehicle, or a velocity of the vehicle, wherein the type of warning comprises at least one of a visual warning or an audible warning.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising: receiving the image depicting the driver from a camera disposed within the vehicle; and determining that the driver of the vehicle is directed to the non on-road zone based on the image.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining that the driver of the vehicle is directed to the non on-road zone via a deep neural network that classifies the image.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the deep neural network comprises a convolutional neural network.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein a first category of the plurality of categories comprises an on-road right zone and a cluster zone; a second category of the plurality of categories comprises a console zone, a driver mirror zone, an off-road zone, a passenger foot well zone, a passenger mirror zone, and a rear mirror zone; and a third category of the plurality of categories comprises a driver lap zone, wherein each zone corresponds to a respective probability that contributes to a probability assigned to a respective category.
20. The method of claim 13, further comprising: determining whether the at least one of the head pose or the eye gaze of the driver has changed when the adjusted probability is less than or equal to the probability threshold; and then determining that the driver of the vehicle is directed to another non on-road zone based on at least one of the head pose or the eye gaze of the driver.
</claims>
</document>
