<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L29/06,H04L9/32
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAGLEY, GEOFFREY
HOOVER, JASON
PRICE, MICAH
TANG, QIAOCHU
WYLIE, STEPHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71838669
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for tokenized data delegation and protection
</title>

<abstract>
Example embodiments of systems and methods for data delegation and control through the use of tokenized data are provided. In an exemplary method of data delegation and control, a data device may store private information associated with a user and generate an access token, comprising tokenized data identifying the data device. The data device may transmit the access token to a user device through a front channel and receive an information request from a merchant device comprising the access token through a secure back channel. Upon authenticating the access token, the data device may transmit a portion of the private information to the merchant device through the secure back channel.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of data delegation and control, comprising: storing, by a data device, private information associated with a user; generating, by the data device, an access token, wherein the access token comprises tokenized data identifying the data device; transmitting, by the data device through a first front channel, the access token to a user device; receiving, by the data device through a first secure back channel, an information request comprising the access token, from a merchant device; authenticating, by the data device, the access token; transmitting, by the data device through the first secure back channel, a first portion of the private information, to the merchant device based on the authentication of the access token; receiving, by the data device through a second secure back channel, a request for a second portion of private information from a vendor device, wherein the vendor device has stored a third portion of private information; receiving, by the data device through the second secure back channel, the third portion of private information; comparing, by the data device, the third portion of private information to a fourth portion of the private information, wherein the fourth portion of private information is stored by the data device; generating, by the data device, a first similarity score based on the comparison; determining, by the data device, that the first similarity score exceeds a first threshold; and transmitting a share confirmation request to the user device.
2. The method of data delegation and control of claim 1, wherein the information request further comprises a secret key.
3. The method of data delegation and control of claim 2, wherein the information request further comprises an identification of a subset of the private information to be transmitted to the merchant device.
4. The method of data delegation and control of claim 1, the method further comprising transmitting, by the user device through a second front channel, the access token to the merchant device.
5. The method of data delegation and control of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, from the data device to the user device, a confirmation request message, wherein the confirmation request message is transmitted upon authentication by the data device of the access token from the merchant device.
6. The method of data delegation and control of claim 4, further comprising wherein the data device transmits the first portion of private information to the merchant device upon receipt of a confirmation response message from the user device.
7. The method of data delegation and control of claim 1, further comprising: retrieving, by the data device, a fifth portion of private information; and comparing, by the data device, the third portion of private information to the fifth portion of private information.
8. The method of data delegation and control of claim 7, further comprising generating, by the data device, a second similarity score based on the comparison of the third portion of private information to the fifth portion of private information.
9. The method of data delegation and control of claim 8, further comprising: comparing, by the data device, the second similarity score to a second threshold; and upon determining, by the data device, that the second similarity score exceeds the second threshold, transmitting, by the data device, a fifth portion of private information to the vendor device through the second secure back channel.
10. The method of claim 8, further comprising: comparing, by the data device, the second similarity score to a second threshold; and upon determining, by the data device, that the second similarity score is less than the second threshold, transmitting, by the data device, a failure message to the vendor device through the second secure back channel.
11. A system for data delegation and control, comprising: a user device comprising a processor and a memory; a data device comprising a processor and a memory, wherein the data device is in data communication with a database containing private information; and a requesting device comprising a processor and a memory, wherein, upon receipt of a request for an access token from the user device, the data device is configured to generate an access token associated with the private information, and transmit the access token to the user device via a front channel, and wherein, upon receipt of an information request from the requesting device through a secure back channel, the information request comprising the access token, a secret key, an identification of a first portion of private information, and a second portion of private information, the data device is configured to: authenticate the access token and the secret key; retrieve a third portion of private information from the database based on the authentication of the access token and the secret key; compare the second portion of private information to the third portion of private information; generate a first similarity score based on the comparison; and wherein, upon determining that the first similarity score exceeds a first threshold: retrieve the first portion of private information from the database; and transmit the first portion of private information to the requesting device through the secure back channel.
12. The system for data delegation and control of claim 11, wherein the data device is configured to transmit the first portion of private information to the requesting device upon receipt of an approval message from the user device.
13. The system for data delegation and control of claim 11, wherein the data device is configured to transmit the first portion of private information to the requesting device unless a disapproval message is received from the user device within a specified time period.
14. The system for data delegation and control of claim 11, wherein the data device is configured to determine, based on the access token, whether the requesting device is in possession of any private information relating to the user.
15. The system for data delegation and control of claim 14, wherein the data device is configured to, upon a determination that the requesting device is in possession of private information, request that the requesting device transmit a fourth portion of private information to the data device through the secure back channel.
16. The system for data delegation and control of claim 15, wherein, upon receipt of the fourth portion of private information, the data device is configured to: retrieve a fifth portion of private information from the database; compare the fifth portion of private information to the fourth portion of private information; and generate a second similarity score based on the comparison.
17. The system for data delegation and control of claim 16, wherein the comparison of the fifth portion of private information to the fourth portion of private information is performed using at least one selected from the group of natural language processing and a machine learning algorithm.
18. The system for data delegation and control of claim 17, wherein the machine learning algorithm comprises at least one selected from the group of gradient boosting machine, logistic regression, and neural networks.
19. A non-transitory computer-accessible medium having stored thereon computer-executable instructions for providing data delegation and control, wherein, when a computer arrangement executes the instructions, the computer arrangement comprising a processor in data communication with a database containing private information, the computer arrangement is configured to perform procedures comprising: receiving, through a front channel, a request for an access token associated with the private information; generating an access token, the access token comprising a tokenized identifier for the computer arrangement; transmitting the access token through the front channel; receiving, through a secure back channel, the access token, a secret key, and a request for a first portion of private information; authenticating the access token and secret key; receiving, through the secure back channel, a second portion of private information; comparing the second portion of private information to a third portion of the private information; generating a similarity score based on the comparison; and transmitting the first portion of private information through the secure back channel if the similarity score exceeds a threshold.
20. The method of data delegation and control of claim 1, the method further comprising, upon receipt of a share confirmation message in response to the share confirmation request, transmitting, by the data device through the second secure back channel, the second portion of private information.
</claims>
</document>
