<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/0408,H04B7/0413,H04B7/06,H04W72/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRESIA, MARIA
OTTERSTEN, JOHAN
TULLBERG, HUGO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64741788
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
First radio node and methods therein for adjusting a set of beams for communication in a wireless communications network
</title>

<abstract>
A method performed by a first radio node for adjusting a set of beams for communication with a second radio node. The first radio node obtains an indication of a first set of beams based on a beam prediction model. The first radio node sends a training symbol on each beam in the first set of beams. The first radio node receives from the second radio node, feedback relating to the sent training symbols. A second beam is identified based on the feedback and is used for transmission. The received feedback and the second beam are used to adapt the beam prediction model. Further, the first radio node decides whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams based on a relationship between the first and second beam. The adjusted first set of beams is to be used for sending training symbols before an upcoming communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by a first radio node for adjusting a set of beams for communication with a second radio node, which first radio node and second radio node operate in a wireless communications network, the method comprising: obtaining an indication of a first set of beams based on a beam prediction model, which first set of beams comprises a first beam and a number of first neighbouring beams to the first beam; sending a training symbol on each respective beam in the first set of beams; receiving from the second radio node, feedback relating to at least one of the sent training symbols on each respective beam in the first set of beams; identifying a second beam based on the received feedback to be used for transmission; adapting the beam prediction model based on the received feedback and the second beam; and deciding whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams based on a relationship between the first beam and the second beam, which adjusted first set of beams is to be used for sending training symbols before an upcoming communication between the first radio node and the second radio node.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein obtaining the indication of the first set of beams, comprises performing at least one time: sending a training symbol on each of a set of available beams; receiving from the second radio node, feedback relating to at least one of the sent training symbols on each of the set of available beams; identifying a subset of beams of the set of available beams based on the received feedback; one of creating and updating the beam prediction model based on the subset of beams of the set of available beams; and identifying the first beam based on the beam prediction model, which first beam is comprised in the first set of beams.
3. The method according to claim 2, wherein identifying the second beam further comprises identifying a third set of beams comprising a third beam and a number of neighbouring beams based on the received feedback on each respective beam in the first set of beams, and transmitting instructions to the second radio node to use the third set of beams for transmitting and receiving data.
4. The method according to claim 2, wherein deciding whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams is further based on at least one of: radio channel properties between the first radio node and the second radio node, and packet error rates of the data being sent between the first radio node and the second radio node.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein identifying the second beam further comprises identifying a third set of beams comprising a third beam and a number of neighbouring beams based on the received feedback on each respective beam in the first set of beams, and transmitting instructions to the second radio node to use the third set of beams for transmitting and receiving data.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein deciding whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams is further based on at least one of: radio channel properties between the first radio node and the second radio node, and packet error rates of the data being sent between the first radio node and the second radio node.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the relationship between the first beam and the second beam is associated to the extent that both beams coincide.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein deciding whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams further comprises deciding to decrease the number of beams based on at least one of the first and second beams overlapping to a predefined level, the radio channel properties between the first radio node and the second radio node being above a first threshold, and the packet error rates of the data being sent between the first radio node and the second radio node being lower than a second threshold; otherwise deciding to increase the number of beams in the first set of beams.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the received feedback from the second radio node corresponding to the sent training symbols is in the form of one of signal-to-noise ratio, SNR, and another measure related to the available channel information.
10. A computer storage medium storing a computer program comprising instructions, which when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform a method for a first radio node for adjusting a set of beams for communication with a second radio node, which first radio node and second radio node operate in a wireless communications network, the instructions causing the processor to: obtain an indication of a first set of beams based on a beam prediction model, which first set of beams comprises a first beam and a number of first neighbouring beams to the first beam; send a training symbol on each respective beam in the first set of beams; receive from the second radio node, feedback relating to at least one of the sent training symbols on each respective beam in the first set of beams; identify a second beam based on the received feedback to be used for transmission; adapt the beam prediction model based on the received feedback and the second beam; and decide whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams based on a relationship between the first beam and the second beam, which adjusted first set of beams is to be used for sending training symbols before an upcoming communication between the first radio node and the second radio node.
11. A first radio node for adjusting a set of beams for communication with a second radio node, which first radio node and second radio node are operable in a wireless communications network, the first radio node is configured to: obtain an indication of a first set of beams based on a beam prediction model, which first set of beams comprises a first beam and a number of first neighbouring beams to the first beam; send a training symbol on each respective beam in the first set of beams; receive from the second radio node, feedback relating to at least one of the sent training symbols on each respective beam in the first set of beams; identify a second beam based on the received feedback to be used for transmission; adapt the beam prediction model based on the received feedback and the second beam; and decide whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams based on a relationship between the first beam and the second beam, which adjusted first set of beams is to be used for sending training symbols before an upcoming communication between the first radio node and the second radio node.
12. The first radio node according to claim 11, further configured to obtain the indication of the first set of beams, by performing at least one time: sending a training symbol on each of a set of available beams; receiving from the second radio node, feedback relating to one or more of the sent training symbols on each of the set of available beams; identifying a subset of beams of the set of available beams based on the received feedback; one of creating and updating the beam prediction model based on the subset of beams of the set of available beams; and identifying the first beam based on the beam prediction model, which first beam is comprised in the first set of beams.
13. The first radio node according to claim 11, further configured to identify a second beam by identifying a third set of beams comprising a third beam and a number of neighbouring beams based on the received feedback on each respective beam in the first set of beams, and transmit instructions to the second radio node to use the third set of beams for transmitting and receiving data.
14. The first radio node according to claim 11, further configured to decide whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams by further taking into account at least one of: radio channel properties between the first radio node and the second radio node, and packet error rates of the data being sent between the first radio node and the second radio node.
15. The first radio node according to claim 11, wherein the relationship between the first beam and the second beam is adapted to be associated to the extent that both beams coincide.
16. The first radio node according to claim 11, further configured to decide whether to adjust the number of beams in the first set of beams further comprises deciding to decrease the number of beams based on at least one of the first and second beams overlapping to a predefined level, the radio channel properties between the first radio node and the second radio node being above a first threshold, and the packet error rates of the data being sent between the first radio node and the second radio node being lower than a second threshold; otherwise deciding to increase the number of beams in the first set of beams.
17. The first radio node according to claim 11, wherein the received feedback from the second radio node corresponding to the sent training symbols is adapted to be in the form of one of signal-to-noise ratio, SNR, and another measure related to the available channel information.
18. The first radio node according to claim 11, wherein the first radio node is a wireless device and the second radio node is any one of: a radio network node and a wireless device.
19. The first radio node according to claim 11, wherein the first radio node is a network node and the second radio node is any one of: a radio network node and a wireless device.
</claims>
</document>
