<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/27,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
STUBBS, PETER E.
EL-RIFAI, MOHAMAD
BELLARY, SHASHANK
JANG, ANDREW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66634012
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Smarter event planning using cognitive learning
</title>

<abstract>
Selecting an optimal date for a planned event is provided. Event input data is received that includes at least one of a location for a planned event, a range of dates for the planned event, attributes of a target audience for the planned event, and attributes of the planned event. Web search data and social media data corresponding to the received event input data are retrieved. The received event input data and the retrieved web search data and social media data that correspond to the received event input data are analyzed using natural language processing to identify a set of optimal dates to maximize attendance of the target audience at the planned event. The identified set of optimal dates for the planned event is ranked based on weights assigned to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for selecting an optimal date for a planned event using machine-based natural language processing, the computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a data processing system, event input data that includes at least one of a location for a planned event, a range of dates for the planned event, attributes of a target audience for the planned event, and attributes of the planned event; retrieving, by the data processing system, web search data from at least one network and social media data corresponding to the received event input data from at least one website; analyzing, by the data processing system, the received event input data and the retrieved web search data and social media data that correspond to the received event input data using the machine-based natural language processing to identify a set of optimal dates to maximize attendance of the target audience at the planned event; ranking, by the data processing system, the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event based on weights assigned to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event; selecting, by the data processing system, a highest-ranking date in the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event; and performing, by the data processing system, a set of action steps pertaining to the planned event based on the selected highest-ranking date for the planned event.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: assigning, by the data processing system, different weights to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event responsive to determining that the highest-ranking date for the planned event is not successful based on a defined threshold level of success.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the set of action steps includes scheduling the planned event on the selected highest-ranking date, reserving a site for the planned event, and sending event invitations to the target audience.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1 further comprising: receiving, by the data processing system, post-event data corresponding to the planned event; and applying, by the data processing system, cognitive machine learning to the post-event data to increase event date selection accuracy for future events.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the attributes of the target audience include age range of potential attendees, income of potential attendees, geographic location of potential attendees, and personal interests and preferences of potential attendees that match keywords describing a focus of the planned event.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the attributes of the planned event include type of event, cost of attendance, and one or more keywords describing a focus of the planned event.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the web search data include information regarding same or similar events already scheduled in or near a location for the planned event on or near the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event, information regarding businesses, entertainment, and places of interest near the planned event, information regarding construction projects near the planned event, and information regarding city events already scheduled on the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the social media data include information regarding social media users that have personal interests or preferences that match information in the attributes of the target audience, information regarding social media users that have previously attended events that are same or similar to the planned event, information regarding social media users that are available during the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event.
9. A data processing system for selecting an optimal date for a planned event using machine-based natural language processing, the data processing system comprising: a bus system; a storage device connected to the bus system, wherein the storage device stores program instructions; and a processor connected to the bus system, wherein the processor executes the program instructions to: receive event input data that includes at least one of a location for a planned event, a range of dates for the planned event, attributes of a target audience for the planned event, and attributes of the planned event; retrieve web search data from at least one network and social media data corresponding to the received event input data from at least one web site; analyze the received event input data and the retrieved web search data and social media data that correspond to the received event input data using the machine-based natural language processing to identify a set of optimal dates to maximize attendance of the target audience at the planned event; rank the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event based on weights assigned to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event; select a highest-ranking date in the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event; and perform a set of action steps pertaining to the planned event based on the selected highest-ranking date for the planned event.
10. The data processing system of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: assign different weights to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event responsive to determining that the highest-ranking date for the planned event is not successful based on a defined threshold level of success.
11. The data processing system of claim 9, wherein the set of action steps includes scheduling the planned event on the selected highest-ranking date, reserving a site for the planned event, and sending event invitations to the target audience.
12. The data processing system of claim 9, wherein the processor further executes the program instructions to: receive post-event data corresponding to the planned event; and apply cognitive machine learning to the post-event data to increase event date selection accuracy for future events.
13. A computer program product for selecting an optimal date for a planned event using machine-based natural language processing, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a data processing system to cause the data processing system to perform a method comprising: receiving, by the data processing system, event input data that includes at least one of a location for a planned event, a range of dates for the planned event, attributes of a target audience for the planned event, and attributes of the planned event; retrieving, by the data processing system, web search data from at least one network and social media data corresponding to the received event input data from at least one website; analyzing, by the data processing system, the received event input data and the retrieved web search data and social media data that correspond to the received event input data using the machine-based natural language processing to identify a set of optimal dates to maximize attendance of the target audience at the planned event; ranking, by the data processing system, the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event based on weights assigned to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event; selecting, by the data processing system, a highest-ranking date in the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event; and performing, by the data processing system, a set of action steps pertaining to the planned event based on the selected highest-ranking date for the planned event.
14. The computer program product of claim 13 further comprising: assigning, by the data processing system, different weights to each of the attributes of the target audience and the attributes of the planned event responsive to determining that the highest-ranking date for the planned event is not successful based on a defined threshold level of success.
15. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the set of action steps includes scheduling the planned event on the selected highest-ranking date, reserving a site for the planned event, and sending event invitations to the target audience.
16. The computer program product of claim 13 further comprising: receiving, by the data processing system, post-event data corresponding to the planned event; and applying, by the data processing system, cognitive machine learning to the post-event data to increase event date selection accuracy for future events.
17. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the attributes of the target audience include age range of potential attendees, income of potential attendees, geographic location of potential attendees, and personal interests and preferences of potential attendees that match keywords describing a focus of the planned event.
18. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the attributes of the planned event include type of event, cost of attendance, and one or more keywords describing a focus of the planned event.
19. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the web search data include information regarding same or similar events already scheduled in or near a location for the planned event on or near the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event, information regarding businesses, entertainment, and places of interest near the planned event, information regarding construction projects near the planned event, and information regarding city events already scheduled on the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event.
20. The computer program product of claim 13, wherein the social media data include information regarding social media users that have personal interests or preferences that match information in the attributes of the target audience, information regarding social media users that have previously attended events that are same or similar to the planned event, information regarding social media users that are available during the identified set of optimal dates for the planned event.
</claims>
</document>
