<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04M1/725,H04W24/00,H04W4/029
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
DOTAN-COHEN, DIKLA
PRINESS, IDO
COHN, IDO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66776888
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
User event pattern prediction and presentation
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the technology described herein provide visual representations of future user events for improved graphical user interfaces and improved computing services provided to a computer user. In one particular embodiment, using the one or more sensors, information about a current event, which may include a current location of the user, is determined. Based on at least the current event, a prediction of future events or event patterns in association with the user is determined. Each user event pattern can include one or more future events, such as activities, meetings, or location visits, corresponding with the user. Thereafter, the user event patterns can be presented via a graphical user interface. Each user event pattern can be visually represented as a sequence of events in which the user might partake over a timeframe, and may include a corresponding probability of the user's likelihood of partaking in the event.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized system comprising: one or more sensors configured to provide sensor data comprising at least location information; one or more processors; and computer storage memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the processor, implement a method of providing visual representations of predicted user event patterns, the method comprising: determining, using the one or more sensors, a current event including at least a current location of the user; based on at least the current event, determining a prediction of user event patterns in association with the user, each of the user event patterns including one or more future events corresponding with the user; and causing display of the user event patterns via a graphical user interface, the user event patterns visually represented as a probability dependency graph comprising probabilities of the user proceeding with the user event patterns, and each of the user event patterns further visually represented as a sequence of events in which the user might partake over a timeframe.
2. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein determining the prediction of user event patterns is based on at least the current event and historical events.
3. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein determining the prediction of user event patterns is based on at least the current event and historical events having features similar to the current event.
4. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein determining the prediction of user event patterns comprises utilization of an event prediction model based on a Markov process.
5. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the user event patterns are visually represented as a tree, wherein each node in the tree represents an event.
6. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the method further comprises determining probabilities associated with events in the event patterns.
7. The computerized system of claim 6, wherein the determined probabilities are represented in association with the corresponding events in the sequences of events represented as a tree, wherein the edges of the tree indicate a stochastic nature of the sequence of events.
8. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the determination and display of the predicted user event patterns are updated as the current event is updated.
9. The computerized system of claim 1, wherein the user event patterns visually represented as a sequence of events are provided in accordance with a timeline over which the events are distributed.
10. The computerized system of claim 9, wherein the events are distributed over the timeline in accordance with start and end times for each event.
11. A computing device comprising a computer memory and a computer processor that is configured to provide visual representations of predicted user event patterns, the computing device comprising: determining, using one or more sensors, a current event including at least a current location of the user; based on at least the current event, determining a prediction of user event patterns in association with the user, each of the user event patterns including one or more future events corresponding with the user; and causing display of the user event patterns via a graphical user interface, the user event patterns visually represented in a marginal density chart in which a marginal probability of a user partaking in an event is provided in association with a time interval.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein determining the prediction of user event patterns is a pattern-based prediction based on at least the current event and historical events.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein determining the prediction of user event patterns comprises utilization of an event prediction model based on a Markov process.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein each event in the marginal density chart is uniquely represented.
15. The computing device of claim 14, wherein each event in the marginal density chart is uniquely represented by color or design.
16. A computerized method for providing visual representations of predicted user event patterns, the method comprising: determining, using one or more sensors, a current event including at least a current location of the user; based on at least the current event, determining a prediction of a user event pattern in association with the user, the user event pattern including one or more future events corresponding with the user; and causing display of the user event pattern via a graphical user interface, the user event pattern visually represented in an electronic calendar view among other calendar items by visually emphasizing a set of calendar items in the electronic calendar corresponding with the predicted event pattern, the set of calendar items comprising a first calendar item and a second calendar item, wherein visually emphasizing the first calendar item and the second calendar item is based on corresponding probabilities of the user proceeding the set of calendar items over corresponding other calendar items.
17. The computerized method of claim 16, wherein the predicted user event pattern is determined in accordance with calendar items within the electronic calendar.
18. The computerized method of claim 16, wherein the set of calendar items are visually emphasized in the electronic calendar based on utilization of a color, a font, a style, an icon, an alert, a notification, a placement, or a combination thereof.
19. The computerized method of claim 16, wherein the set of calendar items are visually emphasized in the electronic calendar by placing the set of calendar items in a first alignment and placing the other calendar items in a second alignment.
20. The computerized method of claim 16, wherein determining the prediction of the user event pattern comprises utilization of an event prediction model based on a Markov process.
</claims>
</document>
