<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/08,H04L29/12,H04M1/725,H04M3/58,H04W4/00,H04W4/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVIDSON, FORD
Fiori, Patrick
Banks, Shawn Michael
Lohani, Rohit
Robinson, Merle Michael
Parkhi, Ninad
Sathyanarayana Rao, Shambhavi
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73264159
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Managing communications sessions based on restrictions and permissions
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques related to managing data communications between devices are described. In an example, a computer system receives, from a first device, a request to transfer a communications session with the first device and a second device. The computer system determines contextual data associated with the communications session. Using at least the contextual data, the computer system determines the communications session is permitted to be transferred from the first device to a third device based. The computer system causes a transferred communications session to be established with the third device and the second device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method implemented by a computer system, comprising: receiving, from a first device, first data representing a request to transfer a synchronous communications session with the first device and a second device, the request to transfer is from the first device to a third device; determining a permission associated with transferring the synchronous communications session from the first device to the third device, wherein determining the permission comprises: determining that the first device is associated with an account, determining that the third device is associated with the account, and determining that the third device is configured to support one or more synchronous communications sessions transferred from the first device; and establishing, based on the permission, a transferred synchronous communications session with the third device and the second device.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the second device, second data representing a second request to establish a second synchronous communications session, the second request indicating an address; establishing the second synchronous communications session with the first device and the second device; determining a second permission associated with transferring the second synchronous communications session from the first device to the third device, the second permission determined by at least determining that the third device is associated with the address; sending, to the third device, third data indicating that the second synchronous communications session is transferrable to the third device; receiving, from the third device, fourth data representing a third request to transfer the second synchronous communications session; and establishing a second transferred synchronous communications session with the third device.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a restriction associated with transferring the synchronous communications session from the first device to a fourth device, the restriction determined by at least: determining that the fourth device is associated with the account; and determining that the fourth device does not support the one or more synchronous communications sessions.
4. A computer system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more memories storing computer-readable instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: receive, from a first device, a request to transfer a communications session with the first device and a second device; determine contextual data associated with the communications session; determine, using at least the contextual data, the communications session is permitted to be transferred from the first device to a third device; and cause a transferred communications session to be established with the third device and the second device.
5. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the contextual data indicates that the request is associated with an identifier that represents an account, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises determining that the third device is associated with the identifier.
6. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the contextual data indicates at least one of: a geographic location associated with the first device, a service set identifier (SSID) associated with an access point to which the first device is connected, or an internet protocol (IP) address associated with the first device, and wherein the communications session is determined as permitted to be transferred based at least in part on one or more of the geographic location, the SSID, or the IP address.
7. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the contextual data indicates a first geographic location associated with the first device, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises: determining that a second geographic location associated with the third device is outside of a predefined geographic area that includes the first geographic location; sending, to the first device, first data to authorize transferring of the communications session to the third device; and receiving, from the first device, second data indicating an authorization of the transferring.
8. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the contextual data indicates an identifier that is associated with the second device, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises: determining a list of permitted contacts associated with the third device; and determining a match between the identifier and the list.
9. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the contextual data indicates that the first device is associated with a first identifier and that the second device is associated with a second identifier, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises: determining a contacts list associated with the second identifier; and determining a match between the first identifier and the contacts list.
10. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the one or more memories store further computer-readable instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: determine that the communications session is permitted to be transferred to a fourth device based at least in part on the contextual data; send, to the first device, first data indicating that transferring the communications session is permitted to at least the third device and the fourth device; and receive, from the first device, second data indicating that the communications session is to be transferred to the third device.
11. The computer system of claim 10, wherein the one or more memories store additional computer-readable instructions that, upon execution by the one or more processors, cause the computer system to: generate a ranking of the third device and the fourth device based on at least one: an audio and video capability of the third device, an activity status of the third device, or a setting of the third device, wherein the first data further indicates the ranking.
12. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the request indicates a device identifier associated with the third device, wherein the contextual data indicates that the request is associated with an account identifier that represents an account, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises determining that the third device is associated with the device identifier and the account identifier.
13. The computer system of claim 4, wherein the request indicates a space, wherein the contextual data indicates that the request is associated with an identifier that represents an account, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises determining that the third device is associated with the space and the identifier.
14. The computer system of claim 4, wherein cause the transferred communications session to be established comprises: sending, to the first device, first data indicating that the communications session is transferring to the third device; and sending, to the third device, second data indication that the communications session is transferring from the first device.
15. A method implemented by a computer system, comprising: causing a communications session to be established with a first device and a second device; determining contextual data associated with the communications session; determining, using at least the contextual data, the communications session is permitted to be transferred from the first device to a third device; sending, to the third device, data indicating that the communications session is transferrable to the third device; receiving, from the third device, a request to transfer the communications session based at least in part on the data; and causing a transferred communications session to be established with the third device and the second device.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the communications session is established based at least in part on a second request from the second device, wherein the contextual data indicates a requested address for the communications session, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises determining that the third device is associated with the requested address.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the communications session is established based at least in part on a second request from the second device, wherein the contextual data indicates that the first device is associated with a first account, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises: determining that the third device is associated with a second account; determining that the first account and the second account are associated with a group account; determining that the second request indicates an address for the communications session; and determining that the address is associated with the group account.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein the communications session is established based at least in part on a second request from the second device, wherein the contextual data indicates that the first device is associated with a first account, and wherein determining that the communications session is permitted to be transferred comprises: determining that the third device is associated with the first account; determining that the second request indicates an address for the communications session; and determining that the address is associated with the first account.
19. The method of claim 18, further comprising determining the communications session is restricted from transferring to a fourth device by at least: determining that the first account and a second account are associated with a group account; and determining that the fourth device is associated with the second account and not the first account.
20. The method of claim 15, wherein the communications session is established based at least in part on a second request from the second device, and further comprising: determining that the second request is associated with a communications application of the second device; determining that the communications application is associated with a ringtone; and sending, to the third device, data to output the ringtone.
</claims>
</document>
