<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/08,G10L15/22,H04M1/64,H04M3/22,H04M3/51
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WELLS FARGO BANK
</assignee>

<inventors>
CIESLAK, KEVIN R.
MAIORANA, NICK A.
GORLESKY, DAVID
CANTOR, JUDY
ERNST, JEREMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71611852
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fraud detection in contact centers using deep learning model
</title>

<abstract>
An example method is described. The method includes receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a call into an interactive voice response (IVR) system from a user device and determining, by the computing system and based on the data, a set of actions performed by the user device within the IVR system and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the call. Additionally, the method includes converting, by the computing system, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary established based on training data, determining, by the computing system, an activity pattern during the call based on the sequence of code pairs; and calculating, by the computing system, a probability that the call is fraudulent based on the activity pattern during the call.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing system, data indicative of a call into an interactive voice response (IVR) system from a user device; determining, by the computing system and based on the data, a set of actions performed by the user device within the IVR system and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the call; converting, by the computing system, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary generated based on a set of training data, wherein each code pair of the sequence of code pairs includes an action code corresponding to an action of the set of actions and a result code corresponding to a respective result of the set of results; determining, by the computing system, an activity pattern during the call based on the sequence of code pairs; and calculating, by the computing system, a probability that the call is fraudulent based on the activity pattern during the call.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results comprises converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into the sequence of code pairs for use as input to the deep learning model, and wherein determining the activity pattern during the call comprises determining the activity pattern during call as output from the deep learning model.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results comprises: identifying, from the data indicative of the call, a plurality of primary species of words entered by the user device, wherein each primary species of words represents an action from the set of actions performed by the user device during the call; assigning, by the computing system and using the dictionary, a respective action code to represent each action from the set of actions performed by the user device, wherein the dictionary maps actions to action codes; identifying, from the data indicative of the call, a plurality of secondary species of words entered by the IVR system, wherein each secondary species of words represents a result from the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call in response to a corresponding action from the set of actions performed by the user device during the call; and assigning, by the computing system and using the dictionary, a respective result code to represent one or more of the results from the set of results performed by the IVR system, wherein the dictionary maps results to result codes.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results further comprises: generating a code pair including an action code and a corresponding result code for each action from the set of actions performed by the user device and each corresponding result from the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call; and generating the sequence of code pairs including one or more code pairs generated for the call.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results further comprises normalizing unique values included in the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call, wherein normalizing the unique values comprises assigning one of a set of generalized result codes to each of the unique values.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results comprises: identifying, from the data indicative of the call, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents unique account information of an account being accessed by the user device; and assigning, by the computing system, a result code to represent the species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized account result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the account information of the account being accessed.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein converting the set of actions and the corresponding set of results comprises: identifying, from the data indicative of the call, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents a unique amount of currency associated with an action being performed by the user device; and assigning, by the computing system, a result code to represent the at least one species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized balance result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the amount of currency associated with the action being performed.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the activity pattern comprises identifying, based on the sequence of code pairs, one or more known patterns associated with fraudulent calls, and wherein calculating the probability that the call is fraudulent comprises determining a level of similarity between the sequence of code pairs and the known patterns.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model, the method further comprising generating, by the computing system, the dictionary based on the set of training data, wherein the set of training data includes a plurality of calls into one or more IVR systems.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein generating the dictionary comprises: determining a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by the one or more IVR systems during each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data; creating, for each unique action in the set of actions, an entry in the dictionary to map the action to an action code; and creating, for each unique result in the set of results, an entry in the dictionary to map the result to a result code.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model, the method further comprising training, by the computing system, the deep learning model based on the set of training data, wherein the set of training data includes a plurality of calls into one or more IVR systems, and wherein the plurality of calls includes a group of fraudulent calls and a group of non-fraudulent calls.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein training the deep learning model comprises: determining, in each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by the one or more IVR systems during the respective call; converting, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using the dictionary; and identifying, based on the sequence of code pairs for each call of the plurality of calls, a plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising periodically retraining the deep learning model based on an updated set of training data.
14. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, by the computing system, that the call is fraudulent if the probability is above a threshold value; and in response to determining that the call is fraudulent, alerting, by the computing system, a fraud management system that the call is fraudulent.
15. A computing system comprising: a memory; and one or more processors in communication with the memory and configured to: receive data indicative of a call into an interactive voice response (IVR) system from a user device; determine a set of actions performed by the user device and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the call; convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary generated based on a set of training data, wherein each code pair of the sequence of code pairs includes an action code corresponding to an action of the set of actions and a result code corresponding to a respective result of the set of results; determine an activity pattern during the call based on the sequence of code pairs; and calculate a probability that the call is fraudulent based on the activity pattern during the call.
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into the sequence of code pairs for use as input to the deep learning model, and determine the activity pattern during the call as output from the deep learning model.
17. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to determine the set of actions and the corresponding set of results, the one or more processors are configured to: identify a plurality of primary species of words entered by the user device, wherein each primary species of words represents an action from the set of actions performed by the user device during the call; assign, using the dictionary, a respective action code to represent each action from the set of actions performed by the user device, wherein the dictionary maps actions to action codes; identify, from the data indicative of the call, a plurality of secondary species of words entered by the IVR system, wherein each secondary species of words represents a result from the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call in response to a corresponding action from the set of actions performed by the user device during the call; and assign, using the dictionary, a respective result code to represent one or more of the results from the set of results performed by the IVR system, wherein the dictionary maps results to result codes.
18. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results, the one or more processors are further configured to: generate a code pair including an action code and a corresponding result code for each action from the set of actions performed by the user device and each corresponding result from the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call; and generate the sequence of code pairs including one or more code pairs generated for the call.
19. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results, the one or more processors are configured to normalize unique values included in the set of results performed by the IVR system during the call, and wherein, to normalize the unique values, the one or more processors are configured to assign one of a set of generalized result codes to each of the unique values.
20. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results, the one or more processors are configured to: identify, from the data indicative of the call, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents unique account information of an account being accessed by the user device; and assign a result code to represent the species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized account result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the account information of the account being accessed.
21. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results, the one or more processors are configured to: identify, from the data indicative of the call, a species of words, wherein each word of the species of words represents a unique amount of currency associated with an action being performed by the user device; and assign a result code to represent the at least one species of words, wherein the result code comprises a generalized balance result code that is present in the dictionary and is not unique to the amount of currency associated with the action being performed.
22. The computing system of claim 15, wherein, to determine the activity pattern, the one or more processors are configured to identify, in the sequence of code pairs, one or more known patterns associated with fraudulent calls, and wherein, to calculate the probability, the one or more processors are configured to determine a level of similarity between the sequence of code pairs and the known patterns.
23. The computing system of claim 15, wherein computing system comprises a deep learning model, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to generate the dictionary based on the set of training data, wherein the set of training data includes a plurality of calls into one or more IVR systems.
24. The computing system of claim 23, wherein, to generate the dictionary, the one or more processors are configured to: determine a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by the one or more IVR systems during each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data; create, for each unique action in the set of actions, an entry in the dictionary to map the action to an action code; and create, for each unique result in the set of results, an entry in the dictionary to map the result to a result code.
25. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the computing system comprises a deep learning model, and wherein the one or more processors are configured to train the deep learning model based on the set of training data, wherein the set of training data includes a plurality of calls into one or more IVR systems, and wherein the plurality of calls includes a group of fraudulent calls and a group of non-fraudulent calls.
26. The computing system of claim 25, wherein, to train the deep learning model, the one or more processors are configured to: determine, in each call of the plurality of calls included in the set of training data, a set of actions performed by a device and a corresponding set of results performed by the one or more IVR systems during the respective call; convert, for each call of the plurality of calls, the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using the dictionary; and identify, based on the sequence of code pairs for each call of the plurality of calls, a plurality of patterns associated with the group of fraudulent calls.
27. The computing system of claim 25, wherein the one or more processors are configured to periodically retrain the deep learning model based on an updated set of training data.
28. The computing system of claim 15, wherein one or more processors are configured to: determine that the call is fraudulent if the probability is above a threshold value; and in response to determining that the call is fraudulent, alert a fraud management system that the call is fraudulent.
29. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions that when executed cause one or more processors to: receive data indicative of a call into an interactive voice response (IVR) system from a user device; determine, based on the data, a set of actions performed by the user device and a corresponding set of results performed by the IVR system during the call; convert the set of actions and the corresponding set of results into a sequence of code pairs using a dictionary generated based on a set of training data, wherein each code pair of the sequence of code pairs includes an action code corresponding to an action of the set of actions and a result code corresponding to a respective result of the set of results; determine an activity pattern during the call based on the sequence of code pairs; and calculate a probability that the call is fraudulent based on the activity pattern during the call.
</claims>
</document>
