<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/06,G01S13/89,G06F3/00,G06F3/01,G06F3/03,G06F3/0354
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, BRYAN
AMIHOOD, PATRICK M.
GIUSTI, LEONARDO
HAYASHI, EIJI
POUPYREV, IVAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68290349
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Radar-image shaper for radar-based applications
</title>

<abstract>
This document describes techniques and systems that enable a radar-image shaper for radar-based applications. A radar field enables an electronic device to accurately determine a characteristic disposition (e.g., a location, orientation, velocity, or direction) of an object in the radar field. The characteristic disposition is determined by detecting a radar cross-section (or radar signature) of a radar-image shaper that is included in the object. The shape of the radar-image shaper produces a known signature when illuminated by the radar field. Using these techniques, the electronic device can determine a characteristic disposition of the object, which allows the object to be used to interact with the electronic device using gestures and other position-based techniques. Because the radar-image shaper enables a passive object to control applications on the electronic device, users have an interaction method with a rich library of gestures and controls that does not require additional components or a battery.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An electronic device, comprising: a radar system, implemented at least partially in hardware, configured to: provide a radar field; sense reflections from an object in the radar field; analyze the reflections from the object in the radar field; and provide, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; one or more computer processors; and one or more computer-readable media having instructions stored thereon that, responsive to execution by the one or more computer processors, implement a radar-signature manager configured to: detect, based on a first subset of the radar data, a radar signature of a radar-image shaper that is attached to the object in the radar field; compare the detected radar signature to a benchmark radar signature that corresponds to a characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper, the comparison comprising to: determine features of the radar-image shaper based on the first subset of the radar data; and analyze the determined features to determine a match to known features of the benchmark radar signature; determine, based on the comparison, that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature; and responsive to the determination that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature, determine, based on the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper that corresponds to the matched benchmark radar signature, a characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field.
2. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the radar-signature manager is further configured to: determine, based on a second subset of the radar data, a change in the characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field; based on the change in the characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field, determine a gesture by the object in the radar field; determine a function of the electronic device that corresponds to the gesture; and cause the electronic device to provide the function.
3. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the radar-signature manager is further configured to compare the detected radar signature to the benchmark radar signature by comparison of the detected radar signature to a plurality of benchmark radar signatures, each benchmark radar signature of the plurality of radar signature corresponding to a different characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper.
4. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the radar-image shaper is a corner reflector.
5. The electronic device of claim 4, wherein the corner reflector is an octahedron comprising eight trihedral corner reflectors.
6. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the radar-image shaper is asymmetrical.
7. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein: the radar-image shaper comprises a first portion made from a first material and a second portion made from a second material; the first material absorbs radar signals within a first range of frequencies; and the second material absorbs radar signals within a second range of frequencies, at least a part of the second range of frequencies not included in the first range of frequencies.
8. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein a length of a longest edge of the radar-image shaper is between 1 millimeter and ten millimeters.
9. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the radar system further comprises a digital beamformer and an angle estimator, and the radar system is configured to monitor angles in a field of view between approximately −90 degrees and approximately 90 degrees.
10. The electronic device of claim 1, wherein the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper includes one or more of: an orientation of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a location of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a velocity of the radar-image shaper; or a direction of a movement of the radar-image shaper.
11. A method implemented by an electronic device that includes a radar system, the method comprising: providing, by the radar system, a radar field; sensing, by the radar system, reflections from an object in the radar field; analyzing the reflections from the object in the radar field; providing, based on the analysis of the reflections, radar data; detecting, based on a first subset of the radar data, a radar signature of a radar-image shaper that is attached to the object in the radar field; comparing the detected radar signature to a benchmark radar signature, the benchmark radar signature corresponding to a characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper, the comparison comprising: determining features of the radar-image shaper based on the first subset of the radar data; and analyzing the determined features to determine a match to known features of the benchmark radar signature; determining, based on the comparison, that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature; and responsive to determining that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature, determining a characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field, based on the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper that corresponds to the matched benchmark radar signature.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining, based on a second subset of the radar data, a change in the characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field; determining, based on the change in the characteristic disposition of the object in the radar field, a gesture by the object in the radar field; determining a function of the electronic device that corresponds to the gesture; and causing the electronic device to provide the function.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein comparing the detected radar signature to the benchmark radar signature further comprises comparing the detected radar signature to a plurality of benchmark radar signatures, each benchmark radar signature of the plurality of radar signatures corresponding to a different characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper includes one or more of: an orientation of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a location of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a velocity of the radar-image shaper; or a direction of a movement of the radar-image shaper.
15. A stylus, comprising: a stylus housing; and a radar-image shaper integrated with the stylus housing, the radar-image shaper configured to provide a radar signature that is detectable by a radar system, the radar signature effective to enable the radar system to determine a characteristic disposition of the housing, the determination of the characteristic disposition of the housing comprising: detecting the radar signature of the radar-image shaper; comparing the detected radar signature to a benchmark radar signature, the benchmark radar signature corresponding to a characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper, the comparison comprising: determining features of the radar-image shaper, based on the radar signature; and analyzing the determined features to determine a match to known features of the benchmark radar signature; determining, based on the comparison, that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature; and responsive to determining that the detected radar signature matches the benchmark radar signature, determining a characteristic disposition of the housing based on the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper that corresponds to the matched benchmark radar signature.
16. The stylus of claim 15, further comprising another radar-image shaper, and wherein: the radar-image shaper is integrated nearer to a first end of the housing; and the other radar-image shaper is integrated nearer to a second end of the housing.
17. The stylus of claim 16, wherein the radar-image shaper and the other radar-image shaper are made from different materials.
18. The stylus of claim 16, wherein the radar-image shaper and the other radar-image shaper are different shapes.
19. The stylus of claim 15, wherein the housing has a cross-section that is cylindrical or elliptical.
20. The stylus of claim 15, wherein the characteristic disposition of the radar-image shaper includes one or more of: an orientation of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a location of the radar-image shaper with respect to the radar system; a velocity of the radar-image shaper; or a direction of a movement of the radar-image shaper.
</claims>
</document>
