<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-03-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G1/137,G05B15/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COUPANG CORPORATION
COUPANG CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, WOONG
OH, JEONG SEOK
KIM, JI EUN
JIN, CHANG GEUN
YIM, SANG HO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69549098
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computerized systems and methods for assisted picking processes
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the disclosure include a computer implemented system including at least one processor and memory storing instructions. In one embodiment, a system receives a batch identifier, determines a number of containers, sends the number of containers to a user device, and receives a first container identifier from a user device. The system retrieves a location identifier of a first item, sends the location identifier to the user device, and receives a physical location identifier from the user device. The system sends to the user device the first item when the physical location identifier matches the location identifier. The system receives a physical item identifier of the first item and sends a destination to the user device to bring the container.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented system for fulfilling a batch in a fulfillment center, comprising: at least one processor; at least one memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to: retrieve a location identifier for an item on a list of one or more items; send, to a user device for display, the location identifier; send, to the user device for display, a map illustrating a physical location corresponding to the location identifier; receive, from the user device, a physical location identifier; send, to the user device for display, at least one of an image of the item, a volume of the item, or a weight of the item; receive, from the user device, an indication that the item is present at the physical location; and send, to the user device for display, a destination to which to bring a container holding the item.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an indication, from the user device, that a first container is full, and send a prompt to the user device requesting a container identifier associated with a second container.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the second container is a different size than the first container.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: receive an indication, from the user device, to move an item from a first container to another container; receive, from the user device, a first container identifier; receive, from the user device, the physical item identifier of the item to be moved; and receive, from the user device, a second container identifier.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive a batch identifier representing the batch from the user device or from a server.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive at least one of the physical item identifier, the physical location identifier, or a container identifier associated with a first container for holding the one or more items from the user device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to send a received batch identifier, a container identifier, the physical item identifier, and the physical location identifier to a server.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to: determine a number of containers for holding items; and send, to a user device, the determined number of containers as an image.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the number of containers comprises determining at least one of a weight or a volume of the one or more items.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further cause the at least one processor to receive a report from the user device of an error with one or more of the listed items, the error including at least one of a shortage, a damaged barcode, a missing barcode, or damage.
11. A computer implemented method for fulfilling a batch in a fulfillment center performed at a computing device, by at least one processor, the method comprising: retrieving a location identifier for an item on a list of one or more items; sending, to a user device for display, the location identifier; sending, to the user device, a map illustrating a physical location corresponding to the location identifier; receiving, from the user device, a physical location identifier; sending, to the user device for display, at least one of an image of the item, a volume of the item, or a weight of the item; receiving, from the user device, an indication that the item is present at the physical location; and sending, to the user device for display, a destination to which to bring a container holding the item.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving an indication, from the user device, that a first container is full, and sending a prompt to the user device requesting a container identifier associated with a second container.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second container is a different size than the first container.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving an indication, from the user device, to move an item from a first container to another container; receiving, from the user device, a first container identifier; receiving, from the user device, the physical item identifier of the item to be moved; and receiving, from the user device, a second container identifier.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving a batch identifier representing the batch from the user device or from a server.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving at least one of the physical item identifier, the physical location identifier, or a container identifier associated with a first container for holding the one or more items from the user device.
17. The method of claim 11, further comprising determining a number of containers for holding items; and sending, to a user device, the determined number of containers as an image.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein determining the number of containers comprises determining at least one of a weight or a volume of the one or more items.
19. The method of claim 11, further comprising receiving a report from the user device of an error with one or more of the listed items, the error including at least one of a shortage, a damaged barcode, a missing barcode, or damage.
20. A computer-implemented system for fulfilling a batch in a fulfillment center, comprising: at least one processor; at least one memory storing instructions, wherein the instructions cause the at least one processor to: retrieve a location identifier for an item; send, to a user device for display, the location identifier; send, to the user device for display, a map illustrating a physical location corresponding to the location identifier; send, to the user device for display, at least one of an image of the item, a volume of the item, or a weight of the item; receive, from the user device, an indication that the item is present at the physical location; and send, to the user device for display, a destination to which to bring a container holding the item.
</claims>
</document>
