<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-01-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,G06N20/00,H04L12/801,H04L29/06,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SECURESKY
</assignee>

<inventors>
EVERS, RIDGELY C.
FLOWERS,JOHN,S.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
51224590
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for detecting a compromised computing system
</title>

<abstract>
A digital security threat management system is disclosed. The system detects the presence of a computing system, on a network, that has been compromised by an undetected and/or unknown digital security threat. The digital security threat management system recognizes characteristic emanations from a computer system that has been compromised. Because the characteristic emanations that result from a known threat can be the same as the characteristic emanations that result from an undetected and/or unknown threat, the digital security threat management system can learn to detect a computing system that has been compromised by an unknown threat if the security threat management system recognizes characteristic emanations from a previous attack, based on a known threat, of the computing system. In this way, the system can detect the presence of a compromised computing system, even if the cause of the compromise remains undetected and/or unknown. Appropriate remedial action may be taken upon detection.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving a plurality of sets of data, wherein the plurality of sets of data are associated with a computing device; combining the plurality of sets of data to provide a combined set of data; determining, based on the combined set of data, whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest; in accordance with a determination that the computing device is associated with the event of interest, initiating an operation; and in accordance with a determination that the computing device is not associated with the event of interest, forgoing initiation of the operation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one set of data of the plurality of sets of data includes one or more data packet.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the event of interest is a threat associated with the computing device.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the combined set of data includes a subset of a first set of data of the plurality of sets of data and a subset of a second set of data of the plurality of sets of data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes a first set of data and second set of data, wherein the first set of data is associated with a first type of data and the second set of data is associated with a second type of data different from the first type of data.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes sets of data received during the event of interest and at least one or more of: before the event of interest, after the event of interest, related to the event of interest, or any combination thereof.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving an event indicator configured to recognize an occurrence of an event of interest, wherein determining whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest includes comparing the combined set of data with the event indicator to determine whether the computing device is associated with the event of interest.
8. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-executable instructions, the computer-executable instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive a plurality of sets of data, wherein the plurality of sets of data are associated with a computing device; combine the plurality of sets of data to provide a combined set of data; determine, based on the combined set of data, whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest; in accordance with a determination that the computing device is associated with the event of interest, initiate an operation; and in accordance with a determination that the computing device is not associated with the event of interest, forgo initiation of the operation.
9. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein at least one set of data of the plurality of sets of data includes one or more data packet.
10. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the event of interest is a threat associated with the computing device.
11. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the combined set of data includes a subset of a first set of data of the plurality of sets of data and a subset of a second set of data of the plurality of sets of data.
12. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes a first set of data and second set of data, wherein the first set of data is associated with a first type of data and the second set of data is associated with a second type of data different from the first type of data.
13. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes sets of data received during the event of interest and at least one or more of: before the event of interest, after the event of interest, related to the event of interest, or any combination thereof.
14. The non-transitory computer-readable storage medium of claim 8, wherein the computer-executable instructions, when executed by one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to: receive an event indicator configured to recognize an occurrence of an event of interest, wherein determining whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest includes comparing the combined set of data with the event indicator to determine whether the computing device is associated with the event of interest.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory operatively coupled to the one or more processors, wherein the memory includes instructions to: receive a plurality of sets of data, wherein the plurality of sets of data are associated with a computing device; combine the plurality of sets of data to provide a combined set of data; determine, based on the combined set of data, whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest; in accordance with a determination that the computing device is associated with the event of interest, initiate an operation; and in accordance with a determination that the computing device is not associated with the event of interest, forgo initiation of the operation.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the event of interest is a threat associated with the computing device.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the combined set of data includes a subset of a first set of data of the plurality of sets of data and a subset of a second set of data of the plurality of sets of data.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes a first set of data and second set of data, wherein the first set of data is associated with a first type of data and the second set of data is associated with a second type of data different from the first type of data.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the plurality of sets of data includes sets of data received during the event of interest and at least one or more of: before the event of interest, after the event of interest, related to the event of interest, or any combination thereof.
20. The system of claim 15, further comprising: receiving an event indicator configured to recognize an occurrence of an event of interest, wherein determining whether the computing device is associated with an event of interest includes comparing the combined set of data with the event indicator to determine whether the computing device is associated with the event of interest.
</claims>
</document>
