<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/00,F24F11/58,F24F110/70,F24F120/10,G05B13/02,G05B13/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, KYUNGJAE
SONG, KWANWOO
CHO, HYEJUNG
KO, SOONHEUM
LEE, WOONSIK
KIM, JAEHONG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67684392
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Compound control apparatus and method thereof in air conditioning system
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosure relates to a sensor network, machine type communication (MTC), machine-to-machine (M2M) communication, and technology for internet of things (IoT). A method of a server in an air conditioning system and a server are provided. The method includes detecting a schedule duration for a compound control zone in which a compound control operation for controlling a ventilating operation and a cooling/heating operation will be performed; determining a ventilating schedule based on an air state change; and determining a cooling/heating schedule.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of a server in an air conditioning system, the method comprising: determining a schedule duration for a compound control zone in which a compound control operation for controlling a ventilating operation of a ventilating apparatus and a cooling/heating operation of an air conditioning apparatus will be performed; determining a ventilating schedule based on an air state change; and determining a cooling/heating schedule, wherein determining the ventilating schedule based on the air state change comprises; predicting a carbon dioxide (CO2)concentration during the schedule duration; predicting a difference between an indoor temperature and an outdoor temperature of the compound control zone; and determining to turn on the ventilating apparatus during a time duration for which the CO2 concentration is greater than a threshold CO2 concentration and the difference is less than a threshold difference.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: modifying the determined ventilating schedule and the determined cooling/heating schedule based on cooling/heating energy for removing ventilating load occurring due to the determined ventilating schedule and ventilating energy due to the determined ventilating schedule.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the ventilating schedule based on the air state change comprises: detecting a plurality of ventilating schedules by predicting a CO2 concentration change during the schedule duration, if the air state change is detected based on the CO2 concentration; and determining a ventilating schedule which causes a minimal ventilating load amount among the plurality of ventilating schedules as the ventilating schedule.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the cooling/heating schedule comprises determining the cooling/heating schedule based on a temperature change, and wherein determining the cooling/heating schedule based on the temperature change comprises: determining a plurality of cooling/heating schedules which satisfy a target temperature comfort-degree by predicting a temperature change during the schedule duration; and determining a cooling/heating schedule of which cooling/heating energy consumption is minimal among the plurality of cooling/heating schedules as the cooling/heating schedule.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the schedule duration is determined based on a time point at which occupancy starts and a time point at which the occupancy ends for the compound control zone, and wherein the time point at which the occupancy starts and the time point at which the occupancy ends are determined based on the air state change.
6. A method of a server in an air conditioning system, the method comprising: determining a schedule duration for a compound control zone in which a compound control operation for controlling a ventilating operation of a ventilating apparatus and a cooling/heating operation of an air conditioning apparatus will be performed; determining a cooling/heating schedule based on a temperature change; and determining a ventilating schedule, wherein determining the ventilating schedule comprises; predicting a carbon dioxide (CO2)concentration during the schedule duration; predicting a difference between an indoor temperature and an outdoor temperature of the compound control zone; and determining to turn on the ventilating apparatus during a time duration for which the CO2 concentration is greater than a threshold CO2 concentration and the difference is less than a threshold difference.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: modifying the determined ventilating schedule and the determined cooling/heating schedule based on cooling/heating energy consumed due to the determined cooling/heating schedule and cooling/heating energy for removing ventilating load due to the determined ventilating schedule.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the cooling/heating schedule based on the temperature change comprises: detecting a plurality of cooling/heating schedules by predicting a temperature change during the schedule duration; and determining a cooling/heating schedule of which energy consumption is minimal among the plurality of cooling/heating schedules as the cooling/heating schedule.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein determining the ventilating schedule comprises determining the ventilating schedule based on an air state change, and wherein determining the ventilating schedule based on the air state change comprises: detecting a plurality of ventilating schedules by predicting a CO2 concentration change during the schedule duration if the air state change is detected based on the CO2 concentration; and determining a ventilating schedule which causes minimal ventilating load amount among the plurality of ventilating schedules as the ventilating schedule.
10. The method of claim 6, wherein the schedule duration is determined based on a time point at which occupancy starts and a time point at which the occupancy ends for the compound control zone, and wherein the time point at which the occupancy starts and the time point at which the occupancy ends are determined based on an air state change.
11. A server in an air conditioning system, the server comprising: a controller configured to: determine a schedule duration for a compound control zone in which a compound control operation for controlling a ventilating operation of a ventilating apparatus and a cooling/heating operation of an air conditioning apparatus will be performed, determine a ventilating schedule based on an air state change, and determine a cooling/heating schedule; and a communication unit configured to: transmit information which is based on the ventilating schedule to the ventilating apparatus, and transmit information which is based on the cooling/heating schedule to the air conditioning apparatus, wherein the controller is further configured to; predict a carbon dioxide (CO2)concentration during the schedule duration, predict a difference between an indoor temperature and an outdoor temperature of the compound control zone, and determine to turn on the ventilating apparatus during a time duration for which the CO2 concentration is greater than a threshold CO2 concentration and the difference is less than a threshold difference.
12. The server of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to modify the determined ventilating schedule and the determined cooling/heating schedule based on cooling/heating energy for removing ventilating load occurring due to the determined ventilating schedule and ventilating energy due to the determined ventilating schedule.
13. The server of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: detect a plurality of ventilating schedules by predicting a CO2 concentration change during the schedule duration, if the air state change is detected based on the CO2 concentration, and determine a ventilating schedule which causes minimal ventilating load amount among the plurality of ventilating schedules as the ventilating schedule.
14. The server of claim 11, wherein the controller is further configured to: determine a plurality of cooling/heating schedules which satisfy a target temperature comfort-degree by predicting a temperature change during the schedule duration, and determine a cooling/heating schedule of which cooling/heating energy consumption is minimal among the plurality of cooling/heating schedules as the cooling/heating schedule.
15. The server of claim 11, wherein the schedule duration is determined based on a time point at which occupancy starts and a time point at which the occupancy ends for the compound control zone, and wherein the time point at which the occupancy starts and the time point at which the occupancy ends are determined based on the air state change.
16. A server in an air conditioning system, the server comprising: a controller configured to: determine a schedule duration for a compound control zone in which a compound control operation for controlling a ventilating operation of a ventilating apparatus and a cooling/heating operation of an air conditioning apparatus will be performed, determine a cooling/heating schedule based on a temperature change, and determine a ventilating schedule; and a communication unit configured to: transmit information which is based on the ventilating schedule to ventilating apparatus, and transmit information which is based on the cooling/heating schedule to the air conditioning apparatus, wherein the controller is further configured to: predict a carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration during the schedule duration, predict a difference between an indoor temperature and an outdoor temperature of the compound control zone, and determine to turn on the ventilating apparatus during a time duration for which the CO2 concentration is greater than a threshold CO2 concentration and the difference is less than a threshold difference.
17. The server of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to modify the determined ventilating schedule and the determined cooling/heating schedule based on cooling/heating energy consumed due to the determined cooling/heating schedule and cooling/heating energy for removing ventilating load due to the determined ventilating schedule.
18. The server of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to: detect a plurality of cooling/heating schedules by predicting a temperature change during the schedule duration, and determine a cooling/heating schedule of which energy consumption is minimal among the plurality of cooling/heating schedules as the cooling/heating schedule.
19. The server of claim 16, wherein the controller is further configured to: detect a plurality of ventilating schedules by predicting a CO2 concentration change during the schedule duration, if the air state change is detected based on CO2 concentration, and determine a ventilating schedule which causes minimal ventilating load amount among the plurality of ventilating schedules as the ventilating schedule.
20. The server of claim 16, wherein the schedule duration is determined based on a time point at which occupancy starts and a time point at which the occupancy ends for the compound control zone, and wherein the time point at which the occupancy starts and the time point at which the occupancy ends are determined based on an air state change.
</claims>
</document>
