<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/46,H04L12/741
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
GARG, PANKAJ
SHUKLA, PANKAJ
GUMMADIDALA, KISHORE
GUNUGANTI, RAMAKANTH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67470629
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Flexible unnumbered destination tunnels for virtual networks
</title>

<abstract>
A cloud service provider's enterprise edge device and network interface are configured to establish a single tunnel connection with a remote server for delivering data packets to multiple distinct virtual machines on the remote server. The provider's enterprise edge device stores the network address information for each virtual machine and remote server to attach the destination network addresses to the data packet for transmission to the appropriate virtual machine on the remote server. Utilizing a single tunnel to transmit data packets to multiple virtual machines increases scalability at the provider's enterprise edge device and reduces system resources compared to other implementations in which the provider uses a tunnel for each virtual machine on a remote server.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method performed by an enterprise edge device to tunnel data packets in a cloud network from the enterprise edge device to a remote server, comprising: receiving, at the enterprise edge device, network address information for a plurality of virtual machines operating on a remote server in a virtual network; utilizing, by the enterprise edge device, a single tunnel between the enterprise edge device and each of the virtual machines operating on the remote server, in which the single tunnel is configured for transmitting information to each of the plurality of virtual machines operating on the remote server; determining, at the enterprise edge device, respective destination IP (Internet Protocol) addresses for each of the virtual machines in the plurality of virtual machines operating on the remote server using the received network address information; and transmitting, by the enterprise edge device utilizing the single tunnel, data packets to respective virtual machines operating on the remote server according to the respective destination IP addresses.
2. The method of claim 1, in which the single tunnel is a point-to-point connection between the enterprise edge device and the remote server and no other single tunnel is presently in operation between the enterprise edge device and the remote server during the transmission, in which the point-to-point connection supports encryption and encapsulation of data exchanged between the enterprise edge device and the remote server.
3. The method of claim 1, in which virtual machines on the remote server are associated with a single company entity.
4. The method of claim 3, in which the virtual machines for the single company entity form one set of virtual machines, and one or more remote servers further support multiple different sets of virtual machines that are respectively associated with different company entities.
5. The method of claim 1, in which the network address information includes a virtual IP address for each virtual machine and a physical IP address for the remote server, and the destination IP address is determined using both the virtual IP address and the physical IP address to transmit the data packets.
6. The method of claim 1, further including: receiving a profile for the remote server, the profile including a set of parameters by which to handle at least networking and data transmissions to the remote server from the enterprise edge device; and configuring the data packet according to the parameters included in the profile.
7. The method of claim 1, in which a destination IP address is determined when the enterprise edge device is preparing to transmit the data packets to a virtual machine.
8. One or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices storing instructions which, when executed by one or more processors disposed in an enterprise edge device associated with a cloud-service provider, cause the enterprise edge device to: provide computing services to customer devices over a network, by which multiple virtual machines operate on a remote server to perform operations and functions, the enterprise edge device being in communication with the remote server; create a first tunnel to the remote server, in which the first tunnel comprises a single tunnel between the enterprise edge device and each of the multiple virtual machines operating on the remote server, and in which the single tunnel is utilized to transmit data packets from the enterprise edge device to each of the multiple virtual machines operating on the remote server; create a second tunnel to a gateway which is utilized to route data packets from the enterprise edge device to the virtual machines on the remote server; and utilize the first and second tunnels to forward data packets to the virtual machines, wherein the enterprise edge device is configured to transmit data packets to the virtual machines using data paths on the first and second tunnels.
9. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 8, in which the one or more processors further cause the enterprise edge device to: receive network address information for each virtual machine on the remote server; attach a network address for a virtual machine to a data packet at least when using the first tunnel; and use the attached network address information to forward the data packet to the virtual machine on the remote server for which the data packet is destined.
10. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 9, in which the network address information includes virtual IP (Internet Protocol) address information for each virtual machine and physical IP address information for the remote server.
11. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 8, in which the enterprise edge device is configured to selectively utilize the first and second tunnels per data transmission.
12. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 11, in which the enterprise edge device utilizes the first tunnel to decrease latency in forwarding data packets to the virtual machines relative to the utilization of the second tunnel.
13. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 8, in which the remote server is associated with a single customer, and further including a plurality of remote servers associated with the single customer, in which each of the plurality of remote servers has a tunnel which respectively provides a point-to-point connection between the enterprise edge device and a remote server among the plurality of remote servers.
14. The one or more hardware-based non-transitory computer-readable memory devices of claim 13, in which the first tunnel and the respective tunnels are each dynamically configured to be utilized with different remote servers when an original remote server goes stale.
15. An enterprise edge device configured to interact with computer servers in a virtualized network, comprising: one or more processors; and one or more hardware-based non-transitory memory devices storing computer-readable instructions which, when executed by the one or more processors cause the enterprise edge device to: identify a network address for a computer server and virtual machines operating on the computer server; using the network address, establish a point-to-point connection with the computer server utilizing a single tunnel, in which the point-to-point connection supports encryption and encapsulation of data exchanged between the enterprise edge device and each of the virtual machines operating on the computer server over the single tunnel; while preparing to transmit data packets to the virtual machines operating on the computer server, configure each data packet to include a virtual machine network address for a virtual machine for which the data packet is destined and a physical network address of the computer server; and transmit the configured data packets using the established point-to-point connection utilizing the single tunnel to the computer server based on the included physical network address so that the computer server routes the configured data packets to the destined virtual machine based on the included virtual machine network address.
16. The enterprise edge device of claim 15, in which the executed instructions further cause the enterprise edge device to transmit data packets to a gateway which routes data packets to respective computer servers, such that the enterprise edge device is simultaneously configured to transmit data packets to computer servers via direct tunneling using either the point-to-point connection or the gateway.
17. The enterprise edge device of claim 15, in which the point-to-point connection is configured to dynamically connect to other computer servers.
18. The enterprise edge device of claim 17, in which the computer server is an initial computer server, and the enterprise edge device removes the established point-to-point connection when the initial computer server goes stale and establishes a new point-to-point connection with a different computer server that is separate from the initial computer server.
19. The enterprise edge device of claim 15, in which the executed instructions further cause the enterprise edge device to dynamically update the one or more hardware-based non-transitory memory devices to identify new virtual machines and deleted virtual machines on the computer server, such that the memory devices store network addresses for new virtual machines with which to communicate over point-to-point connections and delete from memory network addresses for deleted virtual machines.
20. The enterprise edge device of claim 15, in which the executed instructions further cause the enterprise edge device to configure the data packets to comport with profile parameters for transmitting the data packets which are unique to the remote computer server, in which the profile parameters are re-usable and shareable for other remote computer servers.
</claims>
</document>
