<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-09-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q10/06,G06Q40/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, PAUL J.
BLAKEMAN, CORY R.
SHEMESH, KEREN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55437931
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Segmentation platform system
</title>

<abstract>
According to some embodiments, data is received indicative of a plurality of insurance claims. It may then be automatically determined that a first insurance claim is associated with a first type of insurance and that a second insurance claim is associated with a second type of insurance. The received data associated with the first insurance claim may be analyzed in accordance with first segmentation logic to determine a first segment classification appropriate for the first insurance claim. Similarly, the received data associated with the second insurance claim may be automatically analyzed in accordance with second segmentation logic to determine a second segment classification appropriate for the second insurance claim. Indications of the first and second segment classifications may then be transmitted (e.g., to a load balancing and assignment engine that automatically selects claim handlers for insurance claims).
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a communication device to receive claim data for a plurality of claims submitted in connection with policies of a first coverage type and a second coverage type; a computer storage unit for receiving, storing, and providing the claims data for the plurality of claims; a claim intake computer system configured for receiving the claim data corresponding to the plurality of claims of the first coverage type and the second coverage type; and a claims processing computer system coupled to the computer storage unit and the claim intake computer system, the claims processing computer system including: first segmentation logic applicable to claims of the first coverage type and second segmentation logic applicable to claims of the second coverage type; a segmentation platform processor in communication with the computer storage unit, wherein the segmentation platform processor is configured for: automatically determining, for each claim of the plurality of claims, a segment classification based on application of the one of the first segmentation logic and the second segmentation logic applicable to the claim; and transmitting a segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims comprising one of a first segment classification indication and a second segment classification indication; and a load balancing and assignment engine configured for: receiving the one of the first segment classification indication or the second segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims from the segmentation platform processor; accessing a claim handler database to identify eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims based on the one of the first segment classification indication or the second segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims; determine a load for each of the eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims; automatically selecting, for each of the plurality of claims based on the determined load for each of the corresponding eligible claim handlers for the claim, assignment of each claim to one of the eligible claim handlers and a case manager; and transmitting an electronic file for each of the plurality of claims to the assigned one of the claim handler and the case manager.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein automatically determining the segment classification for each claim of the plurality of claims comprises: analyzing, for each of the claims associated with the first coverage type, the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with the first segmentation logic, to determine a first segment classification appropriate for the claim; and analyzing, for each of the claims associated with the second coverage type, the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with the second segmentation logic different from the first segmentation logic, to determine a second segment classification appropriate for the claim.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the claims processing computer system includes a configurable segment ranking table for configuring the first segmentation logic; and wherein said analyzing the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with the first segmentation logic, comprises: determining an injury driven foundation segment; applying non-injury driven rules to determine a non-injury driven segment; and selecting one of the injury driven foundation segment and the non-injury driven segment based on the configurable segment ranking table.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the segmentation platform processor is further configured for: automatically transmitting the first and second segment classification indications to at least one of: (i) an email server, (ii) a workflow application, (iii) a report generator, (iv) a calendar application, and (v) the load balancing and assignment engine.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the data indicative of the plurality of claims is received via at least one of: (i) submitted paper claims, (ii) telephone call center operators, and (iii) an online claim submission web site.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the load balancing and assignment engine being configured to determine the load for each of the eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims comprises: accessing data indicative of a number of other claims currently assigned to each of the eligible claim handlers; and determining an adjusted load based on the accessed data indicative of the number of other claims currently assigned and one or more of data indicative of paid time off information for each of the eligible claim handlers and a load factor indicative of a claim-handling ability of the eligible claim handlers.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one of the segmentation platform processor and the load balancing and assignment engine are implemented by a predictive model trained with historical claim information.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the predictive model is associated with at least one of: (i) a computer-implemented neural network, (ii) a computer-implemented Bayesian network, (iii) a computer-implemented Hidden Markov model, (iv) a computer-implemented expert system, (v) a computer-implemented decision tree, (vii) a computer-implemented collection of decision trees, (viii) a computer-implemented support vector machine, and (ix) computer-implemented weighted factors.
9. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a communication device of a claim intake computer system, data indicative of a plurality of claims submitted in connection with policies providing at least a first coverage type and a second coverage type different from the first coverage type; storing, by a computer storage unit, the data indicative of the plurality of claims; automatically determining, by a segmentation platform processor of a claims processing computer system, for each claim of the plurality of claims, a segment classification based on application of one of first segmentation logic applicable to claims of the first coverage type and second segmentation logic applicable to claims of the second coverage type; transmitting, from the segmentation platform processor to a load balancing and assignment engine, a segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims comprising one of a first segment classification indication and a second segment classification indication; receiving, by the load balancing and assignment engine from the segmentation platform processor, the segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims; accessing, by the load balancing and assignment engine, a claim handler database to identify eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims based on the one of the first segment classification indication or the second segment classification indication for each of the plurality of claims; determining, by the load balancing and assignment engine, a load for each of the eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims; automatically selecting, by the load balancing and assignment engine for each of the plurality of claims based on the adjusted load for each of the corresponding eligible claim handlers for the claim, assignment of each claim to one of the eligible claim handlers and a case manager; and transmitting, by the load balancing and assignment engine, an electronic file for each of the plurality of claims to the assigned one of the eligible claim handlers and the case manager.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein automatically determining the segment classification for each claim of the plurality of claims comprises: analyzing, for each of the claims associated with the first coverage type, the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with the first segmentation logic, to determine the first segment classification appropriate for the claim; and analyzing, for each of the claims associated with the second coverage type, the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with the second segmentation logic different from the first segmentation logic, to determine the second segment classification appropriate for the claim.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 10, further comprising configuring the first segmentation logic and the second segmentation logic with a configurable segment ranking table.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein said analyzing the received data associated with the claim, in accordance with first segmentation logic, comprises: determining an injury driven foundation segment; applying non-injury driven rules to determine a non-injury driven segment; and selecting one of the injury driven foundation segment and the non-injury driven segment based on the configurable segment ranking table.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and the second segmentation logic is configured to evaluate: (i) a potential claim liability data parameter, (ii) an injury classification data parameter, (iii) an injury severity data parameter, (iv) a hospitalization data parameter, and (v) an admission to intensive care data parameter.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein at least one of the first and the second segmentation logic is configured to evaluate at least one of: (i) a claimant age data parameter, (ii) a co-morbidity data parameter, (iii) an amount of work absence data parameter, (iv) a jurisdiction data parameter, and (v) an indication of potential litigation data parameter.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining the load for each of the eligible claim handlers for each of the plurality of claims is based upon an adjusted load, the adjusted load based on: data indicative of a number of other claims currently assigned to each of the eligible claim handlers; and one or more of data indicative of paid time off information for each of the eligible claim handlers and a load factor indicative of a claim-handling ability of the eligible claim handlers.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein steps performed by at least one of the segmentation platform processor and the load balancing and assignment engine are implemented by a predictive model trained with historical claim information.
</claims>
</document>
