<document>

<filing_date>
2012-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2006-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N5/217,H04N5/225,H04N5/228,H04N5/238,H04N5/357,H04N5/374
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OPTIMUM IMAGING TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
SOLOMON,NEAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
39863023
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Digital imaging system for correcting video image aberrations
</title>

<abstract>
A system is disclosed for the automated correction of optical and digital aberrations in a digital imaging system. The system includes (a) digital filters, (b) hardware modifications and (c) digital system corrections. The system solves numerous problems in still and video photography that are presented in the digital imaging environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A digital imaging system for correcting optical image aberrations in a digital video, comprising: a digital video camera including in-camera software, an optical lens mechanism, at least one digital sensor for capturing the digital video, an integrated circuit including; a digital signal processor configured to access a database management system including a plurality of optical image aberration corrections, and a memory storage sub-system; wherein the optical lens mechanism is a zoom lens or a fixed focal length lens; wherein the integrated circuit uses the in-camera software to identify at least one optical image aberration and to correct the at least one optical image aberration in at least one frame of the digital video using at least one of the plurality of optical image aberration corrections in the database; wherein the video is captured by the at least one digital sensor and is forwarded to the digital signal processor; wherein the video image file with the at least one optical image aberration is corrected by applying digital filtration using the digital signal processor; and wherein the corrected video consisting of the digital data optimized from the at least one optical image aberration that are corrected from the original video image is stored in the memory storage sub-system.
2. The system of claim 1: wherein the optical image aberrations include at least one of spherical, comatic, lens distortion, astigmatism, curvature of field, pin cushion, barrel distortion, chromatic aberrations, scattered light, and/or flare types of optical image aberrations.
3. The system of claim 1: wherein the optical image aberration is vignetting; wherein the digital signal processor applies neutral density filtration from one third of a stop to three stops in the center of the image and/or wherein the digital signal processor applies an algorithm to lighten the comers of the image or the digital signal processor applies both neutral density filtration in the image center and/or an algorithm to lighten the comers of the image; and wherein the image exposure is optimized to correct the vignetting.
4. The system of claim 1: wherein the digital signal processor applies at least one fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm to correct the at least one optical image aberration.
5. The system of claim 1: wherein each lens type is registered in the camera database; wherein the multiple optical aberrations of each lens is listed in the database; wherein the filtration solutions to the lens optical aberrations are listed in the database; wherein the filtration of each lens optical aberration is applied by the digital signal processor; and wherein after the digital signal processor applies the filtration to correct the optical image aberrations the corrected digital file is forwarded to storage in memory.
6. A digital imaging system for correcting image aberrations comprising: a digital video camera including in-camera software, an optical lens mechanism, at least one digital sensor for capturing digital video, an integrated circuit including a digital signal processor configured to access a database management system including a plurality of optical image aberration corrections, and a memory storage sub-system; wherein the optical lens mechanism is a zoom lens or a fixed focal length lens; wherein the video is forwarded to storage in memory; wherein at least one optical aberration in at least two frames of the digital video are identified using the in-camera software and the integrated circuit; wherein the at least one optical aberration from the optical lens mechanism of at least two frames of the digital video are corrected by using the digital signal processor to apply at least one digital filtration algorithm; and wherein the corrected digital video file is stored in memory.
7. The system of claim 6: wherein the optical image aberrations include spherical, comatic, lens distortion, astigmatism, chromatic aberrations, curvature of field, pin cushion, barrel distortion, scattered light, and/or flare types of optical aberrations.
8. The system of claim 6: wherein the digital signal processor applies at least one fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm to correct the at least one optical image aberration.
9. The system of claim 6: wherein the digital signal processor applies a fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm to correct digital aberrations of at least two frames in the digital video.
10. The system of claim 6: wherein the digital signal processor applies color filtration to at least two frames of the digital video image.
11. The system of claim 6: wherein the digital video is filtered to correct at least one optical and/or digital aberrations after initial capture and before the digital video is initially sent to storage.
12. The system of claim 6: wherein the integrated circuit may be a microprocessor, an application specific integrated circuit or a system on a chip.
13. The system of claim 6: wherein the optical image aberration is vignetting; wherein the digital signal processor applies neutral density filtration from one third of a stop to three stops in the center of the image and/or wherein the digital signal processor applies an algorithm to lighten the comers of the at least two image frames or the digital signal processor applies both neutral density filtration in the image center and/or an algorithm to lighten the comers of the image of at least two image frames; and wherein the image exposure for at least two frames in the digital video file is optimized to correct the vignetting.
14. A digital imaging system for correcting image aberrations comprising: a digital video camera including in-camera software, an optical lens mechanism, at least one digital sensor for capturing digital video, an integrated circuit including a digital signal processor configured to access a database management system including a plurality of optical image aberration corrections, and a memory storage sub-system; wherein the optical lens mechanism is a zoom lens; wherein the zoom lens changes focal length positions; wherein when the digital video is forwarded to the digital signal processor and to memory; wherein the integrated circuit uses system software to access the database to identify at least one optical aberration in at least one frame of the video at any focal length of a zoom lens configuration; wherein the integrated circuit accesses the database to obtain at least one filtration correction algorithm to the optical image aberration of at least one frame in the video file and forwards the at least one filtration algorithms to the digital signal processor; wherein the digital video is forwarded to the digital signal processor which applies at least one filtration algorithm to optimize the digital video and corrects the at least one optical image aberration in at least one video frame for the at least one focal length in the zoom lens configuration; and wherein the corrected digital video is stored in memory.
15. The system of claim 14: wherein the optical aberrations include vignetting, spherical, comatic, lens distortion, chromatic aberrations, curvature of field, pin cushion, barrel distortion, scattered light, and/or flare types of optical aberrations.
16. The system of claim 14: wherein the digital signal processor applies a fast Fourier transform (FFT) algorithm to correct optical and/or digital aberrations in the digital video.
17. The system of claim 14: wherein each focal length of a zoom lens in at least one video image frame is analyzed for a different set of optical aberrations.
18. The system of claim 14: wherein the digital signal processor applies color filtration to at least one frame of the digital video image.
19. The system of claim 14: wherein the optical image aberration is vignetting; wherein the digital signal processor applies neutral density filtration from one third of a stop to three stops in the center of the image and/or wherein the digital signal processor applies an algorithm to lighten the corners of at least one image frame or the digital signal processor applies both neutral density filtration in the image center and/or an algorithm to lighten the corners of the image of at least one image frame; and wherein the image exposure for at least one frame in the digital video file is optimized to correct the vignetting.
20. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to correct red-eye.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the system is configured to correct for dust.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for spherical aberrations.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for chromatic aberrations.
24. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for scattered light aberrations.
25. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for comatic aberrations.
26. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for astigmatism aberrations.
27. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for lens distortion aberrations.
28. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for pin cushion aberrations.
29. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for curvature of field aberrations.
30. The system of claim 1, wherein the system includes machine readable instructions for the system to correct for barrel distortion aberrations.
</claims>
</document>
