<document>

<filing_date>
2017-07-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2006-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F19/00,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/22,G06Q50/26,G16H50/80
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NORTHROP GRUMMAN SYSTEMS CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KASS-HOUT, TAHA, A.
MIRABITO, MASSIMO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
38981922
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Global disease surveillance platform, and corresponding system and method
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for identifying and assessing public health events, and a corresponding system and apparatus, includes capturing public health-related information from structured and unstructured sources, where the information is contained in one or more documents, extracting meta-data from the captured public health-related information, creating an index of the extracted meta-data; archiving the meta-data and the documents, where the index links meta-data to its associated document, processing the extracted meta-data according to one or more detection algorithms to determine if an anomaly exists, and where an anomaly exists, providing a public health event notification, and monitoring and evaluating the responses to the public health events.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A global disease surveillance platform for identifying, determining, and analyzing potential public health events and monitoring responses thereto, the global disease surveillance platform installed on one or more networked servers, comprising: a data acquisition device including a crawler operating on a continuous basis to search for data sources including information of public health and bio-terrorism, worldwide, to determine if a public health event exists and to update an existing event, wherein the data acquisition device is configured to use keywords of Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) to search for the data sources worldwide; an interface coupled to the data acquisition device and configured by computer-executable instructions to: receive structured data from external feeds and unstructured data from the external feeds and the crawler; map the structured and unstructured data into a schema of the platform; tag the unstructured data with meta-data, index the unstructured data, and link unstructured data based on content; and store the structured data, the unstructured data, and the meta-data in a data store; a processing component coupled to the interface, the processing component configured by computer-executable instructions to: receive data from the interface, wherein the data includes the structured data and the unstructured data; analyze the data in relation to one or more thresholds and to trigger transmission of a public health alert by an alert module if a threshold value indicative of a public health event has been exceeded; identify, evaluate, tag, and correlate the structured data, the unstructured data, and the corresponding meta-data to produce a data file related to a specific public health event; and provide real-time user access to the data file for pre-planning, detection, and response to the public health event; and one or more network devices coupled to the one or more networked servers, wherein the network devices obtain and display views of the public health events and the responses.
2. The platform of claim 1, wherein the unstructured data comprises data selected from the group consisting of audio, video, blog, body of an email, and word processor document.
3. The platform of claim 1 further comprising external services coupled to the interface and the processing component, wherein the processing component is configured to receive geo-spatial information and to populate one or more geo-spatial products with the meta-data, wherein the populated geo-spatial products provide visual and temporal displays of progress of the public health event, including indications of populations at risk from the public health event, and wherein the geo-spatial products allow monitoring of effectiveness of response actions.
4. The platform of claim 1, wherein the crawler learns new search criteria by identifying new terms in the data source, and uses the terms for subsequent searches.
5. The platform of claim 1, wherein the crawler receives feedbacks from the interface, and uses the feedbacks as a basis for future searching.
6. An apparatus for managing phases of a public health event and monitoring responses thereto, the apparatus including one or more suitably programmed computing devices, the apparatus comprising: a data acquisition device including a crawler operating on a continuous basis to search for data sources including information of public health and bio-terrorism, worldwide, to determine if a public health event exists and to update an existing event, wherein the data acquisition device is configured to use keywords of Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) to search for the data sources worldwide; an interface coupled to the data acquisition device and configured by computer-executable instructions to: receive structured data from external feeds and unstructured data from the external feeds and the crawler, map the structured and unstructured data into a schema consistent with a schema of the apparatus, and tag the structured and the unstructured data with meta-data, creates an index of the unstructured data, and relate the index of the meta-data back to the meta data's structured or unstructured data; a data store coupled to the interface, wherein the meta-data and the structured and unstructured data are stored in the data store; a processing component coupled to the interface, the processing component configured by computer-executable instructions to: receive data from the interface, wherein the data include the structured data and the unstructured data; analyze the data in relation to one or more thresholds and to trigger transmission of a public health alert by an alert module if a threshold value indicative of a public health event has been exceeded; and provide real-time user access to the structured and unstructured data, and to the corresponding meta-data for pre-planning, identification, detection, and response to the public health event; and one or more network devices coupled to the computing devices, wherein the network devices obtain and display views of the public health event and responses.
7. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising external services coupled to the interface and the processing component, wherein the processing component is configured to receive geo-spatial information and to populate one or more geo-spatial products with the meta-data, wherein the populated geo-spatial products provide visual and temporal displays of progress of the public health event, including indications of populations at risk from the public health event, and wherein the geo-spatial products allow monitoring of effectiveness of response actions.
8. The apparatus of claim 7, wherein the populated geo-spatial products further provide visual indication of locations of public health response assets.
9. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the processing component is further configured to trigger a notification of an event or anomaly to one or more users of the apparatus by the alert module.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the processing component incorporates a triage algorithm for notification of the users.
11. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the index provides retrieval of structured and unstructured data, corresponding to the meta-data, from the data store.
12. The apparatus of claim 6, further comprising a virtual meeting room, wherein analysis of the public health event-related data are displayed and information related to the public health event are received from users of the apparatus.
13. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the unstructured data comprises data selected from the group consisting of audio, video, blog, body of an email, and word processor document.
14. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the crawler learns new search criteria by identifying new terms in the data source, and uses the terms for subsequent searches.
15. The apparatus of claim 6, wherein the crawler receives feedbacks from the interface, and uses the feedbacks as a basis for future searching.
16. A method for managing public health events and monitoring responses thereto during an entire life cycle of the event, the method executed on one or more computing devices including at least one processor, the method comprising: receiving one or more structured and unstructured data, wherein the structured data is received from external feeds, and the unstructured data is received from the external feeds and a data acquisition device including a crawler that operates on a continuous basis to search for data sources including information of public health and bio-terrorism, worldwide, to determine if a public health event exists and to update an existing event, wherein the crawler uses keywords of Unified Medical Language System (UMLS) to search for the data sources worldwide; initially processing the structured and unstructured data, comprising: tagging, using the at least one processor, the unstructured data with meta-data; indexing, using the at least one processor, the unstructured data; and storing, using a storage device, the meta-data and their corresponding structured and unstructured data, wherein the meta-data allows retrieval of the corresponding structured and unstructured data; analyzing, using the at least one processor, data, which include the structured and unstructured data, to determine if a threshold value indicative of a public health event has been exceeded, wherein if the threshold has been exceeded, providing an initial public health event alert, and continuing, using the at least one processor and the storage device, to collect, process, and analyze the data to allow management of the response; and obtaining and displaying views of the public health events and the responses via one or more network devices coupled to the one or more computing devices.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: applying one or more detection algorithms to the meta-data to determine extent of the public health event and to prepare and subsequently manage the response to the public health event; and archiving information related to the public health event.
18. The method of claim 16, wherein the public health event is one of acute, mild, and chronic conditions, wherein the public health event affects one or more of humans, animals, and the environment, and wherein the public health event is caused by one or more of 15 natural, technological, man-made, and bio-terrorism mechanism.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein the unstructured data comprises an item selected from the group consisting of audio, video, blog, body of an email, and word processor document.
</claims>
</document>
