<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/14,H04N21/2187,H04N21/472,H04N21/475,H04N21/84
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZINNIKAS, MICHAEL
TRIANO, STEPHEN FRANCIS
CHAKRABORTY, SOUMYAJIT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68982228
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
On-demand live media content streaming
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method comprising receiving an initial request for content from a first user; sending one or more subsequent requests to other user(s), such as those at or near a location associated with the live content; receiving replies from the other users; presenting options to and receiving a selection from the first user; sending a confirmation request to a selected user; and receiving, by the first user, the live content from the selected user. In some embodiments, the method includes charging first user a fee for requesting and/or receiving the live content; and paying a fee to the selected user. The second fee may be specified by the selected user. In any case, the users need not know each other. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a processing system having a processor, a first request for live content from first equipment of a first user, wherein the first request specifies a first location of the live content; in response to the receiving the first request, sending, by the processing system to equipment of a group of users within a pre-determined distance of the first location, a second request for the live content; receiving, by the processing system, a first reply from second equipment of a second user, wherein the first reply includes an identification of a capability of the second equipment; in response to the receiving the first reply, presenting, by the processing system, a second reply to the first equipment of the first user, wherein the second reply includes the identification of the capability of the second equipment; receiving, by the processing system from the first equipment of the first user, a selection; in response to the receiving the selection, sending, by the processing system to the second equipment of the second user, a third request for the live content; and receiving, at the first equipment of the first user, the live content, wherein the live content originates from the second equipment of the second user; charging the first user a first fee associated with the live content; and paying a second fee to the second user wherein the second fee is specified by the second user and the second reply includes the first fee.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second reply includes information about the first fee.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first reply includes information about the second fee.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first fee is greater than the second fee.
5. The method of claim 1, further including receiving, by the processing system, a third reply from third equipment of a third user, and wherein the selection comprises a selection of the second user over the third user.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the second reply includes a second location of the second user and a third location of the third user.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the second reply includes information associated with the second user and the third user.
8. The method of claim 5, wherein the second reply includes rating information associated with the second user and the third user.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first request specifies a time for the live content.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the first user and the second user are anonymous with respect to each other.
11. The method of claim 1, further including: obtaining, by the processing system and from third equipment of a third user located at a second location, an indication that the third user is willing to go to the first location if a bid of the third user is accepted, wherein a distance between the second location and the first location is greater than the pre-determined distance; and in response to the obtaining of the indication that the third user is willing to go to the first location if a bid of the third user is accepted, sending, by the processing system to the third equipment of the third user, the second request for the live content.
12. The method of claim 1, further including: obtaining, by the processing system and from the first equipment of the first user subsequent to the receiving of the live content by the first equipment of the first user, a rating based on a quality of a presentation of the live content, wherein the rating is based on resolution, image stabilization, video quality, audio quality, view obstructions, and interference.
13. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving a first request for live content from first equipment of a first user, wherein the first request specifies a first location and a first time for the live content; presenting, to the first equipment of the first user, information associated with a second user and a third user, wherein the second user and the third user have indicated that they expect to be at the first location at the first time, wherein the information includes a first indication of a first capability of second equipment of the second user and a second indication of a second capability of third equipment of the third user, and wherein the first capability is different from the second capability; receiving; from the first equipment of the first user, a selection of the second user over the third user; in response to the receiving the selection, sending, to the second equipment of the second user, a second request for the live content; and establishing a video stream from the second equipment of the second user to the first equipment of the first user; charging the first user a first fee associated with the live content; and paying a second fee to the second user wherein the second fee is specified by the second user and the information includes the first fee.
14. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 13, wherein the first user and the second user are anonymous with respect to each other.
15. An apparatus, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: receiving a first request for live content from first equipment of a first user, wherein the first request specifies a first location for the live content; receiving an indication from a second user and a third user that they are available to provide the live content, wherein the indication includes a first indication of a first capability of second equipment of the second user and a second indication of a second capability of third equipment of the third user, and wherein the first capability is different from the second capability; presenting, to the first equipment of the first user, information associated with the second user and the third user, wherein the information includes the first indication and the second indication; receiving, from the first equipment of the first user, a selection of the second user over the third user; in response to the receiving the selection, sending, to the second equipment of the second user, a second request for the live content; and establishing a video stream from the second equipment of the second user to the first equipment of the first user; charging the first user a first fee associated with the live content; and paying a second fee to the second user, wherein the second fee is specified by the second user and the information includes the first fee.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the information includes ratings and fees associated with the second and third users.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the first user and the second user are anonymous with respect to each other.
</claims>
</document>
