<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-11-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HEARTFLOW
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRADY, LEO
CHOI, GILWOO
ROGERS, CAMPBELL
TAYLOR, CHARLES A.
ZARINS, CHRISTOPHER K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57392055
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for anatomical modeling using information obtained from a medical procedure
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are disclosed herein for anatomical modeling using information obtained during a medical procedure, whereby an initial anatomical model is generated or obtained, a correspondence is determined between the initial model and additional data and/or measurements from an invasive or noninvasive procedure, and, if a discrepancy is found between the initial model and the additional data, the anatomical model is updated to incorporate the additional data and reduce the discrepancy.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method of automatically updating an anatomical model, comprising: using a processor to determine a correspondence between patient-specific data and at least one of a patient-specific three-dimensional anatomical model or at least one characteristic associated with the three-dimensional anatomical model; using the processor to identify a discrepancy between the patient-specific data and at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; using the processor to modify at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic to reduce the discrepancy; using the processor to generate at least one recommendation of an intervention on the patient based on at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; and using the processor to transmit the at least one recommendation to a display unit.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using the processor to model an intervention or a part thereof on the anatomical model; and using the processor to transmit a representation of the modeled intervention or part thereof to the display unit.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the intervention includes one or more of: an insertion of an endoscopic device, a laparoscopic device, a stent, a prosthetic implant, a graft, or a needle; a bypass grafting procedure; a rotablation; an atherectomy; an angioplasty; an endarterectomy; a percutaneous coronary intervention; a carotid intervention; a peripheral intervention; a renal revascularization; a mesenteric revascularization; or an arteriovenous access procedure.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific data is from a medical procedure and the medical procedure is an invasive procedure.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific data is from a medical procedure and the medical procedure is a diagnostic procedure.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one associated characteristic is a blood flow characteristic, a location of one or more lesions or blockages, or a location of one or more interventional devices.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient-specific data includes at least one of: data from an angiogram; data from optical coherence tomography; data from an intravenous ultrasound; blood pressure data; coronary flow data; cardiac contractility data; a measurement of a plaque; a local heart viability; data showing whether an occlusion is total or subtotal; data relating to the patient's physiological state; data relating to myocardial wall motions; stent position data; or data from a percutaneous coronary intervention.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein using the processor to determine a correspondence between the patient-specific data and at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic comprises using the processor to determine a location of the anatomical model to which the patient-specific data may apply.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the display unit is located in a medical facility.
10. A computer-implemented method for automatically updating an anatomical model, the method comprising: using a processor to determine a correspondence between patient-specific data and at least one of a patient-specific three-dimensional anatomical model or at least one characteristic associated with the three-dimensional anatomical model; using the processor to locate a discrepancy between the patient-specific data and at least one of the anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; updating, using the processor, at least one of the anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic to reduce the discrepancy; using the processor to generate at least one recommendation of an intervention on the patient based on at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; and using the processor to transmit the at least one recommendation to a display unit.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the at least one associated characteristic is a blood flow characteristic.
12. The method of claim 10, further comprising: using the processor to model the intervention on the anatomical model; and using the processor to transmit a representation of the modeled intervention to the display unit.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the patient-specific data is from an interventional procedure, and the method further comprising: periodically receiving, at the processor, refreshed patient-specific data from the interventional procedure; using the processor to monitor for a new discrepancy between the refreshed patient-specific data and at least one of the anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; and if a new discrepancy is found: updating, using the processor, at least one of the anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic to reduce the new discrepancy.
14. An anatomical modeling system comprising a processor, wherein the processor is configured to: determine a correspondence between patient-specific data and at least one of a patient-specific three-dimensional anatomical model or at least one characteristic associated with the three-dimensional anatomical model; identify a discrepancy between the patient-specific data and at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; modify at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic to reduce the discrepancy; generate at least one recommendation of an intervention on the patient based on at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; and transmit the at least one recommendation to a display unit.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the patient-specific data is from an interventional procedure, and the processor is further configured to: periodically receive refreshed patient-specific data from the interventional procedure; monitor for a new discrepancy between the refreshed patient-specific data and at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic; and if a new discrepancy is found: update at least one of the three-dimensional anatomical model or the at least one associated characteristic to reduce the new discrepancy.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the at least one associated characteristic is a blood flow characteristic.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to: generate a model of the intervention on the anatomical model; and transmit a representation of the modeled intervention to the display unit.
</claims>
</document>
