<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/0205,A61B5/08,A61B5/091,A61B7/04,G16H50/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CARDIAC PACEMAKERS
</assignee>

<inventors>
ZHANG YI
AN QI
THAKUR, PRAMODSINGH HIRASINGH
AVERINA, VIKTORIA A.
AHMED, REZWAN
YUAN, JIANJUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66658350
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Heart failure stratification based on respiratory pattern
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for monitoring patients for risk of worsening heart failure (WHF) are discussed. A patient management system includes a receiver to receive patient respiration measurement. A respiratory pattern analyzer circuit measures respiratory pattern indicative of rapid-shallow breathing pattern from the received respiration measurement, and determine a respiratory pattern variability indicator. A risk analyzer circuit determines patient WHF risk using the respiratory pattern variability indicator. The system may use the WHF risk to guide WHF event detection, or to deliver or adjust a heart failure therapy.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for assessing a patient risk for a future worsening heart failure (WHF) event, comprising: a signal receiver circuit configured to receive a respiratory signal from the patient; a processor circuit, including: a respiratory pattern analyzer circuit configured to measure a rapid-shallow breathing index (RSBI) parameter using the received respiratory signal, and to determine an RSBI variability indicator indicative of temporal variation of the measured RSBI parameter; and a risk analyzer circuit configured to generate a WHF risk indicator using the determined RSBI variability indicator.
2. The system of claim 1, comprising a sensor circuit coupled to an impedance sensor configured to sense a thoracic impedance correlated to respiration, wherein the respiratory patter analyzer circuit is configured to detect a respiratory rate and a tidal volume using the sensed thoracic impedance, and to generate the RSBI based on a ratio of the detected respiratory rate to the detected tidal volume.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the RSBI parameter includes a daily representative RSBI, and wherein the respiratory pattern analyzer circuit is configured to determine the RSBI variability indicator using measurements of daily representative RSBI over multiple days.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the daily representative RSBI includes a daily minimum RSBI.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein the daily representative RSBI includes a specific percentile of measurements of daily RSBI parameters, the specific percentile being lower than 50-th percentile.
6. The system of claim 1, comprising an activity detection circuit configured to detect patient physical activity, wherein the signal receiver circuit configured to receive a respiratory signal when the detected patient physical activity satisfies a specific condition.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the signal receiver circuit is further configured to receive a heart sounds signal; the processor circuit includes a heart sound analyzer circuit configured to generate a heart sound metric using the received heart sounds signal; and the risk analyzer circuit is configured to: generate the WHF risk indicator using the RSBI variability indicator if the received heart sounds signal fails to satisfy a signal quality condition; and generate the WHF risk indicator using the heart sound metric if the received heart sounds signal satisfies the signal quality condition.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein: the respiratory pattern analyzer circuit is further configured to generate, from the sensed respiratory signal, one or more respiratory metrics including a respiratory rate trend, a respiratory rate variability over time, a tidal volume trend, or a tidal volume variability over time; and the risk analyzer circuit is configured to generate the WHF risk indicator further using the generated one or more respiratory metrics.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the respiratory pattern analyzer circuit is configured to generate a tidal volume trend and a respiratory rate trend from the sensed respiratory signal, and the risk analyzer circuit is configured to: generate the WHF risk indicator using the RSBI variability indicator if the tidal volume trend satisfies a quality condition; and generate the WHF risk indicator using the respiratory rate trend if the tidal volume trend fails to satisfy the quality condition.
10. The system of claim 1, comprising a detector circuit configured to detect a WHF event based on the generated WHF risk indicator.
11. The system of claim 1, comprising a therapy circuit configured to generate a heart failure therapy when the WHF risk indicator satisfies a specific condition.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the respiratory pattern analyzer circuit is configured to determine the RSBI variability indicator using a range between two percentiles of measurements of RSBI parameters over one or more days.
13. A method for assessing a patient risk for a future worsening heart failure (WHF) event using a medical system, the method comprising: receiving a respiratory signal from the patient via a signal receiver circuit; measuring, via a respiratory pattern analyzer circuit, a rapid-shallow breathing index (RSBI) parameter from the received respiratory signal; determining an RSBI variability indicator indicative of temporal variation of the measured RSBI parameter; and generating a WHF risk indicator using the determined RSBI variability indicator via a risk analyzer circuit.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the RSBI parameter includes a daily representative RSBI, and wherein the RSBI variability indicator is determined using measurements of daily representative RSBI over multiple days.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising determining a baseline RSBI using the measurements of daily representative RSBI over multiple days, wherein generating the WHF risk indicator is further based on the baseline RSBI.
16. The method of claim 13, further comprising generating a heart sound metric using a heart sounds signal, wherein generating the WHF risk indicator includes: generating the WHF risk indicator using the RSBI variability indicator if the received heart sounds signal satisfies a signal quality condition; and generating the WHF risk indicator using the heart sound metric if the received heart sounds signal fails to satisfy the signal quality condition.
17. The method of claim 13, further comprising generating one or more respiratory metrics from the sensed respiratory signal, the one or more respiratory metrics including a respiratory rate trend, a respiratory rate variability over time, a tidal volume trend, or a tidal volume variability over time, wherein generating the WHF risk indicator is further based on the one or more respiratory metrics.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the one or more respiratory metrics include a tidal volume trend and a respiratory rate trend from the sensed respiratory signal, wherein generating the WHF risk indicator includes: generating the WHF risk indicator using the RSBI variability indicator if the tidal volume trend satisfies a quality condition; and generating the WHF risk indicator using the respiratory rate trend if the tidal volume trend fails to satisfy the quality condition.
19. The method of claim 13, further comprising delivering a heart failure therapy when the WHF risk indicator satisfies a specific condition.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein the RSBI variability indicator includes a range between two percentiles of measurements of RSBI parameters over one or more days.
</claims>
</document>
