<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H02J50/05,H02J50/10,H02J50/80,H02J7/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OSSIA
</assignee>

<inventors>
SWAN, PHILIP L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68464289
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wireless power transmission receiving device state modification
</title>

<abstract>
Modification of a state of a wireless power receiving device is disclosed. The modification of the state can be based on anticipated delay in a communication session. In an aspect, this can include a delay related to authenticating the wireless power receiving device to a wireless power transmission system or component thereof. In an aspect, this can provide for better control over which wireless power receiving devices have wireless power directed at them, which can be related to safety, reliability, subscription level, or other best practices. In some embodiments, wireless power receiving devices can receive a first level of wireless power in a current state, in a modified state, etc., while a second level of power can be directed to the wireless power receiving device upon a rule related to anticipated delay being satisfied, e.g., upon authentication, upon expiration of a sleep timer, determined subscription status, etc.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A wireless power receiver device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitates performance of operations, comprising: receiving sleep information related to changing a first state of the wireless power receiver device; determining a modification to the first state of the wireless power receiver device based on the sleep information; and adapting the first state of the wireless power receiver device based on the modification, resulting in a second state of the wireless power receiver device, wherein the adapting the first state occurs prior to an authentication of the device to a wireless power transmission system.
2. The wireless power receiver device of claim 1, wherein the sleep information comprises a time value.
3. The wireless power receiver device of claim 1, wherein the sleep information comprises a modification instruction, the modification instruction facilitating the determining the modification to the first state of the device.
4. The wireless power receiver device of claim 1, wherein the second state is a state that consumes less power than the first state.
5. The wireless power receiver device of claim 1, wherein the wireless power receiver device receives wirelessly transmitted power at a first level prior to the adapting the first state, and wherein the first level is determined to be germane to the wireless power receiving device prior to an authentication to the wireless power transmission system.
6. The wireless power receiver device of claim 1, wherein the modification is a first modification, and wherein operations further comprise: determining a second modification to the second state of the wireless power receiver device based on the sleep information; and adapting the second state of the wireless power receiver device based on the second modification, resulting in a third state of the wireless power receiver device.
7. The wireless power receiver device of claim 6, wherein the third state is a state that consumes more power than the second state.
8. The wireless power receiver device of claim 6, wherein the wireless power receiver device receives wirelessly transmitted power at a first level before the adapting the second state, and wherein the first level is determined to be germane to the wireless power receiving device prior to an authentication to the wireless power transmission system.
9. The wireless power receiver device of claim 8, wherein the first level of the wirelessly transmitted power is a courtesy-level of wirelessly transmitted power.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the wireless power receiver device receives wirelessly transmitted power at a second level after the adapting the second state, wherein the second level is different than the first level.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the second level of the wirelessly transmitted power is an authenticated-level of wirelessly transmitted power that is determined to be safe to be received by the device subsequent to an authentication of the device to a wireless power transmission system device of the wireless power transmission system.
12. A method, comprising: receiving, by a wireless power transmission receiving device comprising a processor and a memory, delay information related to changing a first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device; determining, by the wireless power transmission receiving device, a transition from a first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to a second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device based on the delay information; and in response to the determining the transition, initiating, by the wireless power transmission receiving device during an authentication of the wireless power transmission receiving device to a wireless power transmission system, the transition from the first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the receiving the delay information comprises receiving a time value corresponding to a determined authentication time related to authenticating the wireless power transmission receiving device to a wireless power transmission system device.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein the second state causes a user equipment comprising the wireless power transmission receiving device to consume less power than when the wireless power transmission receiving device is in the first state.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the transition is a first transition, and wherein operations further comprise: determining, by the wireless power transmission receiving device, a second transition from the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to a third state of the wireless power transmission receiving device based on the delay information; and in response to the determining the second transition, initiating, by the wireless power transmission receiving device, the second transition from the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to the third state of the wireless power transmission receiving device.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the wireless power transmission receiving device receives wirelessly transmitted power at a first level before the second transition and at a second level after the second transition, wherein the first level is different from the second level, and wherein the second level corresponds to a level of power determined to be applicable to reception of power by an authenticated wireless power transmission receiving device.
17. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a wireless power transmission receiving device, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving information related to changing a first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device; based on the information, determining a first transition from a first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to a second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device; initiating the first transition from the first state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device, wherein the initiating the first transition occurs during an authentication period corresponding to authenticating the wireless power receiving device to a wireless power transmission system; enabling reception of first wirelessly transmitted power at a first level corresponding to first a level of power determined for an unauthenticated wireless power transmission receiving device; based on the information, determining a second transition from the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to a third state of the wireless power transmission receiving device; initiating the second transition from the second state of the wireless power transmission receiving device to the third state of the wireless power transmission receiving device; and enabling reception of second wirelessly transmitted power at a second level corresponding to a second level of power determined for an authenticated wireless power transmission receiving device.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the information comprises temporal information corresponding to an estimated time to authenticate the wireless power transmission receiving device to a wireless power transmission device.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the time to authenticate is based on a time to authenticate a subscription corresponding to the wireless power transmission receiving device being authorized to receive the second level of power.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the time to authenticate is based on a time to authenticate a type of the wireless power transmission receiving device as a validated type to receive the second level of power.
</claims>
</document>
