<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-23
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,H04M1/725,H04M3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LG ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, TAE HYUN
SHIN, WONHO
MAENG, JICHAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67950729
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Intelligent electronic device and mode setting method
</title>

<abstract>
A method of setting a mode of an intelligent electronic device is disclosed. The method includes collecting a plurality of sensing information through a plurality of sensors, obtaining surrounding situation information based on the plurality of collected sensing information, extracting a feature value from the obtained surrounding situation information and determining a surrounding environment based on the extracted feature value, and selecting a disturbance interruption mode corresponding to the determined result. The intelligent robot device may be associated with an artificial intelligence module, an unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), a robot, an augmented reality (AR) device, a virtual reality (VR) device, devices related to 5G services, and the like.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of setting a mode of an intelligent electronic device, the method comprising: collecting sensing information through a plurality of sensors in the intelligent electronic device; obtaining surrounding situation information based on the sensing information; extracting a feature value from the surrounding situation information; determining a surrounding environment of the intelligent electronic device based on the feature value; setting the intelligent electronic device in a disturbance interruption mode based on the surrounding environment, wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor of an audio sensor, a location sensor, or an illuminance sensor, wherein the sensing information includes at least one of audio information, location information, or illuminance information, wherein the illumination sensor senses an ambient brightness of the intelligent electronic device at intervals of a predetermined time, and wherein the determining the surrounding environment comprises: extracting a plurality of feature values from the audio information obtained through the at least one sensor; inputting the plurality of feature values to an artificial neural network (ANN) classifier trained to distinguish whether the surrounding environment is a specific location; and determining the specific location from an output of the ANN classifier.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the disturbance interruption mode controls at least one of a sound related setting for the intelligent electronic device, a screen brightness related setting for the intelligent electronic device, a vibration related setting for the intelligent electronic device, or a screen motion related setting for the intelligent electronic device.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the collecting the sensing information includes: randomly or periodically sensing at least one of ambient brightness to collect illumination information, ambient sound to collect sound information, or a moving distance of the intelligent electronic device to collect moving distance information.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising turning on the disturbance interruption mode when a movie starts.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining the surrounding environment further includes: storing the surrounding situation information in a memory of the intelligent electronic device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from a network, downlink control information (DCI) for scheduling transmission of the sensing information obtained by the plurality of sensors; and transmitting the sensing information to the network based on the DCI.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: performing an initial access procedure with the network based on a synchronization signal block (SSB), wherein the sensing information is transmitted to the network through a Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), and wherein a demodulation reference signal (DM-RS) of the SSB and the PUSCH is quasi co-located (QCL) for QCL kind D.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: controlling a transceiver to transmit the sensing information to an artificial intelligence (AI) processor included in the network; and controlling the transceiver to receive AI processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI processed information includes information indicating whether the surrounding environment is a specific location.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: changing the disturbance interruption mode set for the intelligent electronic device based on the intelligent electronic device moving a distance away from a specific location.
10. An intelligent electronic device, comprising: a plurality of sensors for sensing information; and a processor configured to: obtain surrounding situation information based on the sensing information for determining a surrounding environment of the intelligent electronic device, and set the intelligent electronic device in a disturbance interruption mode based on the surrounding environment, wherein the plurality of sensors include at least one sensor of an audio sensor, a location sensor, or an illuminance sensor, wherein the sensing information includes at least one of audio information, location information, or illuminance information, wherein the processor is further configured to: extract a plurality of feature values from the sensing information obtained through the at least one sensor, input the plurality of feature values to an artificial neural network (ANN) classifier trained to distinguish whether the surrounding environment is a specific location, and set the intelligent electronic device in the disturbance interruption mode based on the specific location, wherein the illumination sensor senses an ambient brightness of the intelligent electronic device at intervals of a predetermined time.
11. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, wherein the disturbance interruption mode controls at least one of a sound related setting for the intelligent electronic device, a screen brightness related setting for the intelligent electronic device, a vibration related setting for the intelligent electronic device, or a screen motion related setting for the intelligent electronic device.
12. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, wherein the disturbance interruption mode is turned on when a movie starts.
13. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: store the surrounding situation information in a memory of the intelligent electronic device.
14. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, further comprising: a transceiver configured to communicate with a network, wherein the processor is further configured to: transmit, via the transceiver, the sensing information to an artificial intelligence (AI) processor included in the network for determining whether the surrounding environment is a specific location based on the sensing information, receive, via the transceiver, result information corresponding to an output of the AI processor, and set the intelligent electronic device in the disturbance interruption mode based on the result information.
15. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: randomly or periodically sense, via at least one of the plurality of sensors, at least one of ambient brightness to collect illumination information, ambient sound to collect sound information, or a moving distance of the intelligent electronic device to collect moving distance information.
16. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, further comprising: a transceiver configured to communicate with a network, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive, via the transceiver, downlink control information (DCI) from the network for scheduling transmission of the sensing information obtained by the plurality of sensors, and transmit, via the transceiver, the sensing information to the network based on the DCI.
17. The intelligent electronic device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform an initial access procedure with the network based on a synchronization signal block (SSB) through the transceiver, wherein the sensing information is transmitted to the network through a Physical Uplink Shared Channel (PUSCH), and wherein a demodulation reference signal (DM-RS) of the SSB and the PUSCH is quasi co-located (QCL) for QCL kind D.
18. The intelligent electronic device of claim 16, wherein the processor is further configured to: transmit, via the transceiver, the sensing information to an artificial intelligence (AI) processor included in the network through the transceiver, and receive, via the transceiver, AI processed information from the AI processor, wherein the AI processed information includes information indicating whether the surrounding environment is a specific location.
19. The intelligent electronic device of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured to: change the disturbance interruption mode set for the intelligent electronic device based on the intelligent electronic device moving a distance away from a specific location.
20. A method of setting a disturbance interruption mode of an electronic device, the method comprising: collecting, by at least one sensor of the electronic device, sensing information; determining, by a processor of the electronic device, a surrounding environment of the electronic device based on the sensing information; and setting the electronic device in a disturbance interruption mode based on the surrounding environment without receiving a user input for setting the disturbance interruption mode, wherein the at least one sensor includes an audio sensor, a location sensor, or an illuminance sensor, wherein the sensing information includes at least one of audio information, location information, or illuminance information, wherein the illumination sensor senses an ambient brightness of the intelligent electronic device at intervals of a predetermined time, wherein the determining the surrounding environment comprises: extracting a plurality of feature values from the audio information obtained through the at least one sensor; inputting the plurality of feature values to an artificial neural network (ANN) classifier trained to distinguish whether the surrounding environment is a specific location; and determining the specific location from an output of the ANN classifier.
</claims>
</document>
