<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H01P1/06,H01P3/16,H01P5/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
BROWN, ADAM
DROZ, PIERRE-YVES
LENIUS, SAMUEL WILLIAM
ROSENBAND, DANIEL L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62125482
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Devices and methods for a dielectric rotary joint
</title>

<abstract>
A device is provided that includes a first waveguide configured to guide propagation of RF waves inside the first waveguide. A first side of the first waveguide is configured to emit an evanescent field associated with the propagation of the RF waves inside the first waveguide. The device also includes a second waveguide having a second side positioned within a predetermined distance to the first side of the first waveguide. The second waveguide is configured to guide propagation, inside the second waveguide, of induced RF waves associated with the evanescent field from the first waveguide. The device also includes a first probe coupled to the first waveguide and configured to emit the RF waves for propagation inside the first waveguide. The device also includes a second probe coupled to the second waveguide and configured to receive induced RF waves propagating inside the second waveguide.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device comprising: a first waveguide; a second waveguide; a dielectric fluid interposed between the first waveguide and the second waveguide; a first probe that emits first electromagnetic (EM) waves into the first waveguide, wherein the first waveguide guides the first EM waves, and wherein the first EM waves guided inside the first waveguide induce second EM waves in the second waveguide; a second probe, wherein the second waveguide guides the second EM waves toward the second probe; and an actuator that rotates the first waveguide, wherein the first waveguide remains within a given distance to the second waveguide in response to the actuator rotating the first waveguide.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide emits an evanescent field associated with the first EM waves guided inside the first waveguide, and wherein the second EM waves are induced in the second waveguide based on the evanescent field.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the first waveguide has a first side that emits at least a portion of the evanescent field toward a second side of the second waveguide, and wherein the first side remains within the given distance to the second side in response to the actuator rotating the first waveguide.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide comprises a dielectric material, and wherein the second waveguide comprises the dielectric material.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide extends around an axis of rotation of the first waveguide, and wherein the second waveguide extends around the axis of rotation of the first waveguide.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide and the second waveguide are concentrically arranged about a common axis, and wherein the actuator rotating the first waveguide comprises the actuator rotating the first waveguide about the common axis.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the first waveguide has a substantially circular-arc shape, and wherein the second waveguide has a corresponding substantially circular-arc shape.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the actuator rotates the first waveguide at least one complete rotation about an axis, and wherein a first side of the first waveguide remains within the given distance to a second side of the second waveguide during the at least one complete rotation.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the actuator rotates the first waveguide at least one complete rotation about an axis, and wherein a first side of the first waveguide remains at least partially overlapping a second side of the second waveguide during the at least one complete rotation.
10. The device of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor; a first controller that receives data from the sensor and provides a modulated signal indicative of the data to the first probe, wherein the first probe modulates the emitted first EM waves based on the modulated signal; and a second controller that receives a signal from the second probe and determines the data from the sensor based on the received signal.
11. A device comprising: a first waveguide; a second waveguide; a dielectric fluid interposed between the first waveguide and the second waveguide; a first probe, wherein the first waveguide guides first electromagnetic (EM) waves toward the first probe; a second probe that emits second EM waves into the second waveguide, wherein the second waveguide guides the second EM waves, and wherein the second EM waves guided inside the second waveguide induce the first EM waves in the first waveguide; and an actuator that rotates the first waveguide, wherein the first waveguide remains within a given distance to the second waveguide in response to the actuator rotating the first waveguide.
12. The device of claim 11, wherein the first waveguide and the second waveguide are concentrically arranged about a common axis, and wherein the actuator rotating the first waveguide comprises the actuator rotating the first waveguide about the common axis.
13. The device of claim 11, wherein the second waveguide emits an evanescent field associated with the second EM waves guided inside the second waveguide, and wherein the first EM waves are induced in the first waveguide based on the evanescent field.
14. A method comprising: emitting, via a first probe, first electromagnetic (EM) waves into a first waveguide, wherein the first waveguide guides the first EM waves, and wherein the first EM waves guided inside the first waveguide induce second EM waves in a second waveguide; detecting, via a second probe, the induced second EM waves, wherein the second waveguide guides the induced second EM waves toward the second probe; transmitting, via the second probe, third EM waves into the second waveguide, wherein the second waveguide guides the third EM waves, and wherein the third EM waves induce fourth EM waves in the first waveguide; detecting, via the first probe, the induced fourth EM waves, wherein the first waveguide guides the fourth EM waves toward the first probe; and rotating the first waveguide, wherein the first waveguide remains within a given distance to the second waveguide during the rotating.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the second waveguide emits an evanescent field associated with the third EM waves guided inside the second waveguide, and wherein the fourth EM waves are induced in the first waveguide based on the evanescent field.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the first waveguide emits an evanescent field associated with the first EM waves guided inside the first waveguide, and wherein the second EM waves are induced in the second waveguide based on the evanescent field.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving data collected by a sensor; and modulating the first EM waves to indicate the data from the sensor.
18. The method of claim 14, further comprising: receiving operation instructions for a device coupled to the first probe; and modulating the third EM waves to indicate the operation instructions.
</claims>
</document>
