<document>

<filing_date>
2019-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-09-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K1/12,G06K19/06,G06K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELL PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAUFFER, SCOTT C.
GUZMAN, RICHARD W.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73051891
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Three dimensional encoded geometry fabrication operation
</title>

<abstract>
A system, method, and computer-readable medium for performing a three dimensional encoded geometry fabrication operation. In various embodiments, the three dimensional encoded geometry fabrication operation comprises: identifying data to be encoded within the three dimensional encoded geometry, the data to be encoded within the three dimensional encoded geometry comprising a unique code to be associated with the three dimensional encoded geometry; converting the data to be encoded to the three dimensional encoded geometry; fabricating a part with the three dimensional encoded geometry, the three dimensional encoded geometry passively representing the unique code with a physical code; and, performing a computer vision operation to read the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry, the computer vision operation confirming the unique code of the three dimensional encoded geometry corresponds to the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implementable method for fabricating a three dimensional encoded geometry, comprising: identifying data to be encoded within the three dimensional encoded geometry, the data to be encoded within the encoded geometry comprising a unique code to be associated with the encoded geometry; converting the data to be encoded to the encoded geometry; fabricating a three dimensional part with the encoded geometry, the encoded geometry passively representing the unique code with a physical code; and, performing a computer vision operation to read the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry, the computer vision operation confirming the unique code of the three dimensional encoded geometry corresponds to the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the encoded geometry of the part uniquely identifies the part.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the computer vision operation performs a quality control operation.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein: the encoded geometry comprises a plurality of planar encoding segments; and, the plurality of planar encoding segments are combined to provide a unique encoded geometry.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein: each planar encoding segment is a three dimensional symbol and the three dimensional encoded geometry is a three dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three dimensional symbols.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein: the part is a passive part; and, the passive part that is attached to a component being identified.
7. A system comprising: a processor; a data bus coupled to the processor; and a non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium being coupled to the data bus, the computer program code interacting with a plurality of computer operations and comprising instructions executable by the processor and configured for: identifying data to be encoded within a three dimensional encoded geometry, the data to be encoded within the encoded geometry comprising a unique code to be associated with the encoded geometry; converting the data to be encoded to the encoded geometry; fabricating a three dimensional part with the encoded geometry, the encoded geometry passively representing the unique code with a physical code; and, performing a computer vision operation to read the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry, the computer vision operation confirming the unique code of the three dimensional encoded geometry corresponds to the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein: the encoded geometry of the part uniquely identifies the part.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein: the computer vision operation performs a quality control operation.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein: the encoded geometry comprises a plurality of planar encoding segments; and, the plurality of planar encoding segments are combined to provide a unique encoded geometry.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein: each planar encoding segment is a three dimensional symbol and the three dimensional encoded geometry is a three dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three dimensional symbols.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein: the part is a passive part; and, the passive part that is attached to a component being identified.
13. A non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium embodying computer program code, the computer program code comprising computer executable instructions configured for: identifying data to be encoded within a three dimensional encoded geometry, the data to be encoded within the encoded geometry comprising a unique code to be associated with the encoded geometry; converting the data to be encoded to the encoded geometry; fabricating a three dimensional part with the encoded geometry, the encoded geometry passively representing the unique code with a physical code; and, performing a computer vision operation to read the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry, the computer vision operation confirming the unique code of the three dimensional encoded geometry corresponds to the physical code of the three dimensional encoded geometry.
14. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the encoded geometry of the part uniquely identifies the part.
15. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer vision operation performs a quality control operation.
16. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the encoded geometry comprises a plurality of planar encoding segments; and, the plurality of planar encoding segments are combined to provide a unique encoded geometry.
17. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein: each planar encoding segment is a three dimensional symbol and the three dimensional encoded geometry is a three dimensional part comprising a plurality of the three dimensional symbols.
18. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the part is a passive part; and, the passive part that is attached to a component being identified.
19. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are deployable to a client system from a server system at a remote location.
20. The non-transitory, computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein: the computer executable instructions are provided by a service provider to a user on an on-demand basis.
</claims>
</document>
