<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0346,G06F3/0354,G06F3/038,G06F3/041,H01Q1/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARAN, ON
Barel, Eli
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70861548
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adaptive hover operation of touch instruments
</title>

<abstract>
Methods, devices, systems, and computer program products are provided for adaptive hover operation of touch instruments, which may increase hover height and improve user experience. Hover range may be adapted, for example, by adapting an antenna configuration during hover. A touch instrument may comprise multiple antennas that may be activated and deactivated, e.g., as a function of proximity Antenna configuration may increment (e.g., increase cumulative antenna size) as hover height increases and decrement (e.g., decrease cumulative antenna size) as hover height decreases. Antennas may be multi-purpose, such as being used to maintain synchronization for extended hover range and for other purposes (e.g., determining hover height, tilt, orientation, grip) and/or features (e.g., providing commands for pop-up menus). Adaptive hover may support (i) maintaining synchronization during use, (ii) faster synchronization when a touch instrument enters or re-enters detectable hover height, (iii) improved palm rejection and (iv) pop up menu presentation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A touch instrument configured to operate with a touch device, the touch instrument comprising: a first antenna; a second antenna; and a transmission manager configured to adapt a hover range of the touch instrument based on a proximity of the touch instrument to the touch device by: driving a first signal on the first antenna when the proximity is in a first proximity range; and driving a second signal on the second antenna when the proximity is in a second proximity range, the first proximity range overlapping with the second proximity range such that the transmission manager is configured to drive the first signal on the first antenna and the second signal on the second antenna concurrently in the overlapping range.
2. The touch instrument of claim 1, further comprising: a proximity detector configured to determine the proximity of the touch instrument to the touch device.
3. The touch instrument of claim 2, wherein the proximity detector comprises a force detector configured to detect a force indicating whether the touch instrument is in a touch mode or a hover mode; and wherein the transmission manager is further configured to drive the second signal on the second antenna based on a detected hover mode, and drive the second signal on the second antenna based on a detected touch mode.
4. The touch instrument of claim 2, wherein the proximity detector comprises a distance detector configured to determine a hover height of the touch instrument relative to the touch device; and wherein the transmission manager is configured to drive the second signal on the second antenna based on a hover height threshold.
5. The touch instrument of claim 4, wherein the first proximity range includes a touch proximity or a hover height of zero and the second proximity range excludes the touch proximity or the hover height of zero.
6. The touch instrument of claim 1, wherein the first signal and the second signal comprise the same signal.
7. The touch instrument of claim 6, wherein the transmission manager is configured to reduce a frequency of first and second signals to reduce power consumption during the concurrent driving of the first signal and the second signal.
8. The touch instrument of claim 1, further comprising: a third antenna; and wherein the transmission manager is further configured to adapt the hover range by: driving a third signal on the third antenna when the determined proximity is in a third proximity range.
9. The touch instrument of claim 8, wherein the first antenna comprises a tip antenna, the second antenna comprises at least a portion of a tip enclosure of the touch instrument, and the third antenna comprises at least one of at least a portion of the tip enclosure of the touch instrument or at least a portion of a barrel enclosure of the touch instrument.
10. The touch instrument of claim 8, wherein the second antenna is a multi-purpose antenna configured to increase a hover range of the touch instrument and to determine at least one of a tilt or orientation of the touch instrument, a proximity of the touch instrument to the touch device, and a user grip of the touch instrument.
11. A method comprising: detecting a proximity of a touch instrument to a touch device; adapting a hover range of the touch instrument based on the proximity by: selecting a hover transmission configuration comprising at least one of a first antenna and a second antenna; driving a first signal on the first antenna when the detected proximity is in a first proximity range; and driving a second signal on the second antenna when the detected proximity is in a second proximity range, the first proximity range overlapping with the second proximity range such that the driving the first signal on the first antenna is concurrent with the driving the second signal on the second antenna in the overlapping range.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first proximity range includes a touch proximity or a hover height of zero and the second proximity range excludes the touch proximity or the hover height of zero.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first signal and the second signal comprise the same signal.
14. The method of claim 11, further comprising: using the second antenna to detect at least one of the proximity of the touch instrument to the touch device, and an orientation of the touch instrument.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising: detecting a force indicating whether the touch instrument is in a touch mode or a hover mode; and driving the second signal on the second antenna based on a detected hover mode or a detected touch mode.
16. The method of claim 11, further comprising: determining a hover height of the touch instrument relative to the touch device; and driving the second signal on the second antenna based on a hover height threshold.
17. A computer-readable storage medium having program instructions recorded thereon that, when executed by a processing circuit of a touch instrument, perform a method comprising: adapting a hover range of the touch instrument based on a proximity of the touch instrument to a touch device by: selecting a hover transmission configuration comprising at least one of a first antenna and a second antenna; driving a signal on the first antenna when the proximity is in a first proximity range; and driving the signal on the second antenna when the proximity is in a second proximity range, the first proximity range overlapping with the second proximity range such that the driving the first signal on the first antenna is concurrent with the driving the second signal on the second antenna in the overlapping range.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the first antenna comprises a tip antenna and the second antenna comprises at least a portion of a tip enclosure of the touch instrument.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim of claim 18, wherein the first proximity range includes a touch proximity or a hover height of zero and the second proximity range excludes the touch proximity or the hover height of zero.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 17, wherein the first signal and the second signal comprise the same signal.
</claims>
</document>
