<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-02-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N5/00,G06N99/00,G16H30/20,G16H30/40,G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE (GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
PERREY, CHRISTIAN FRITZ
SINGHAL, NITIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63166609
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for hierarchical machine learning models for medical imaging
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided relating to hierarchical machine learning models to identify an anatomical structure of interest and perform diagnostic procedures for a medical diagnostic imaging system. The systems and methods organize a plurality of models into a hierarchical structure based on anatomical structures. The plurality of models are defined by a machine learning algorithm for diagnostic procedures of one or more of the anatomical structures. The systems and methods receive a medical image, identifying an anatomical structure of interest within the medical image, select at least a first model from the plurality of models based on the anatomical structure of interest, and perform a first diagnostic procedure of the anatomical structure of interest based on the first model.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer implemented method, comprising: organizing a plurality of models into a hierarchical structure based on anatomical structures, wherein the plurality of models are defined by a machine learning algorithm for diagnostic procedures of one or more of the anatomical structures; receiving a medical image; identifying an anatomical structure of interest within the medical image; selecting at least a first model from the plurality of models based on the anatomical structure of interest; and performing a first diagnostic procedure of the anatomical structure of interest based on the first model.
2. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first diagnostic procedure is at least one of identifying a two-dimensional plane, segmenting the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a boundary thickness of the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a volume of the anatomical structure of interest, identifying the anatomical structure within the medical image, annotating objects within the medical image, or measuring an area of the anatomical structure of interest.
3. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first model is selected based on a user selection.
4. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is based on ultrasound data acquired from an ultrasound probe.
5. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is received based on a selection of the medical image from a set of medical images acquired by a medical diagnostic imaging system.
6. The computer implemented method of claim 1, further comprising receiving an adjustment to the first diagnostic procedure, and adjusting the first model based on the adjustment to the first diagnostic procedure.
7. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the anatomical structures include at least one of a heart, a bone, a brain, a head, a bladder, a kidney, a liver, or a vein.
8. A medical diagnostic imaging system comprising: a display configured to display one or more medical images; and a controller circuit configured to: organize a plurality of models into a hierarchical structure based on anatomical structures, wherein the plurality of models are defined by a machine learning algorithm for diagnostic procedures of one or more of the anatomical structures; receive a medical image; identify an anatomical structure of interest within the medical image; select at least a first model from the plurality of models based on the anatomical structure of interest; and perform a first diagnostic procedure of the anatomical structure of interest based on the first model.
9. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, wherein the first diagnostic procedure is at least one of identifying a two-dimensional plane, segmenting the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a boundary thickness of the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a volume of the anatomical structure of interest, identifying the anatomical structure within the medical image, annotating objects within the medical image, or measuring an area of the anatomical structure of interest.
10. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, further comprising a user interface, wherein the first model is selected based on a user selection.
11. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, further comprising an ultrasound probe having a plurality of transducer elements, the controller circuit is further configured to acquire ultrasound data from the ultrasound probe, and wherein the receiving the medical image includes generating the medical image based on the ultrasound data.
12. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, further comprising a user interface, wherein the medical image is received based on a selection of the medical image from a set of medical images based on a user selection.
13. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, further comprising a user interface, wherein the controller circuit is configured to receive an adjustment to the first diagnostic procedure based on a user selection, and adjust the first model based on the adjustment to the first diagnostic procedure.
14. The medical diagnostic imaging system of claim 8, wherein the anatomical structures include at least one of a heart, a bone, a brain, a head, a bladder, a kidney, a liver, or a vein.
15. A tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium comprising one or more programmed instructions configured to direct one or more processors to: organize a plurality of models into a hierarchical structure based on anatomical structures, wherein the plurality of models are defined by a machine learning algorithm for diagnostic procedures of one or more of the anatomical structures; receive a medical image; identify an anatomical structure of interest within the medical image; select at least a first model from the plurality of models based on the anatomical structure of interest; and perform a first diagnostic procedure of the anatomical structure of interest based on the first model.
16. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first diagnostic procedure is at least one of identifying a two-dimensional plane, segmenting the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a boundary thickness of the anatomical structure of interest, measuring a volume of the anatomical structure of interest, identifying the anatomical structure within the medical image, annotating objects within the medical image, or measuring an area of the anatomical structure of interest.
17. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the first model is selected based on a user selection.
18. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the medical image is based on ultrasound data acquired from an ultrasound probe.
19. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the medical image is received based on a selection of the medical image from a set of medical images acquired by a medical diagnostic imaging system.
20. The tangible and non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 15, wherein the anatomical structures include at least one of a heart, a bone, a brain, a head, a bladder, a kidney, a liver, or a vein.
</claims>
</document>
