<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/58,G06N3/08,G10L25/63
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DISNEY ENTERPRISES
</assignee>

<inventors>
HORN, DAVID
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052199
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated conversion of vocabulary and narrative tone
</title>

<abstract>
There is provided a content translation system includes a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a language conversion software code including a vocabulary conversion convolutional neural network (CNN). The hardware processor is configured to execute the language conversion software code to obtain a content including a language-based content expressed in a first vocabulary. The hardware processor also executes the language conversion software code to convert a wording of the language-based content from the first vocabulary to a second vocabulary using the vocabulary conversion CNN, where the first vocabulary and the second vocabulary are in the same language. The hardware processor further executes the language conversion software code to output a translated content corresponding to the content for rendering on a display, the translated content including the language-based content expressed in the second vocabulary.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A content translation system comprising: a computing platform including a hardware processor and a system memory; a language conversion software code stored in the system memory, the language conversion software code including a vocabulary conversion convolutional neural network (CNN); the hardware processor configured to execute the language conversion software code to: obtain a content including a language-based content expressed in a first vocabulary; convert, using the vocabulary conversion CNN, a wording of the language-based content from the first vocabulary to a second vocabulary, wherein the first vocabulary and the second vocabulary are in a same language, wherein the second vocabulary is one of a teen vocabulary or a children vocabulary, and wherein to convert the wording, the vocabulary conversion CNN is configured to: generate a vector corresponding to one of a word or a phrase in the first vocabulary; map the vector to a projection in a vector space corresponding to the second vocabulary; and convert the one of the word or the phrase in the first vocabulary to one of a word or a phrase in the second vocabulary based on the projection; output a translated content corresponding to the converted wording for rendering on a display, the translated content including the language-based content expressed in the second vocabulary.
2. The content translation system of claim 1, further comprising the display, wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the language conversion software code to render the translated content on the display.
3. The content translation system of claim 1, wherein the second vocabulary includes simpler words than the first vocabulary.
4. The content translation system of claim 1, wherein the language-based content is expressed using a first tone, and wherein the hardware processor is further configured to execute the language conversion software code to transform the first tone to a second tone before the translated content is output.
5. The content translation system of claim 4, wherein the first tone is at least one of critical or pessimistic, and wherein the second tone is at least one of encouraging or optimistic.
6. The content translation system of claim 4, wherein the language conversion software code includes a tone transformation CNN configured to convert the first tone to the second tone.
7. A method for use by a content translation system including a computing platform having a hardware processor and a system memory storing a language conversion software code including a vocabulary conversion convolutional neural network (CNN), the method comprising: obtaining, using the hardware processor, a content including a language-based content expressed in a first vocabulary; converting, using the hardware processor and the vocabulary conversion CNN, a wording of the language-based content from the first vocabulary to a second vocabulary, wherein the first vocabulary and the second vocabulary are in a same language, wherein the second vocabulary is one of a teen vocabulary or a children vocabulary, and wherein the converting includes: generating a vector corresponding to one of a word or a phrase in the first vocabulary; mapping the vector to a projection in a vector space corresponding to the second vocabulary; and converting the one of the word or the phrase in the first vocabulary to one of a word or a phrase in the second vocabulary based on the projection; outputting, using the hardware processor, a translated content corresponding to the converted wording for rendering on a display, the translated content including the language-based content expressed in the second vocabulary.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the content translation system further comprises the display, the method further comprises rendering, using the hardware processor, the translated content on the display.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the second vocabulary includes simpler words than the first vocabulary.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the language-based content is expressed using a first tone, and wherein the method further comprises transforming, using the hardware processor, the first tone to a second tone before the translated content is output.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the first tone is at least one of critical or pessimistic, and wherein the second tone is at least one of encouraging or optimistic.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the language conversion software code includes a tone transformation CNN, and wherein the language conversion software code uses the tone transformation CNN to convert the first tone to the second tone.
13. A computer-readable non-transitory medium having stored thereon a language conversion software code including a vocabulary conversion convolutional neural network (CNN) and instructions, which when executed by a hardware processor, instantiate a method comprising: obtaining a content including a language-based content expressed in a first vocabulary; converting, using the vocabulary conversion CNN, a wording of the language-based content from the first vocabulary to a second vocabulary, wherein the second vocabulary is one of a teen vocabulary or a children vocabulary, and wherein the first vocabulary and the second vocabulary are in a same language, wherein the converting includes: generating a vector corresponding to one of a word or a phrase in the first vocabulary; mapping the vector to a projection in a vector space corresponding to the second vocabulary; and converting the one of the word or the phrase in the first vocabulary to one of a word or a phrase in the second vocabulary based on the projection; outputting a translated content corresponding to the converted wording for rendering on a display, the translated content including the language-based content expressed in the second vocabulary.
14. The computer-readable non-transitory medium of claim 13, wherein the language-based content is expressed using a first tone, and wherein the method further comprises transforming the first tone to a second tone before the translated content is output, and wherein the language conversion software code includes a tone transformation CNN configured to convert the first tone to the second tone.
15. The content translation system of claim 1, wherein the computing platform comprises a robot.
16. The content translation system of claim 1, wherein the content including the language-based content expressed in the first vocabulary comprises at least one of audio-visual content or music, and wherein the second vocabulary includes simpler words than the first vocabulary.
17. The method of claim 7, wherein the computing platform of the content translation system comprises a robot.
18. The method of claim 7, wherein the content including the language-based content expressed in the first vocabulary comprises at least one of audio-visual content or music, and wherein the second vocabulary includes simpler words than the first vocabulary.
19. The computer-readable non-transitory medium of claim 13, wherein the content including the language-based content expressed in the first vocabulary comprises at least one of audio-visual content or music, and wherein the second vocabulary includes simpler words than the first vocabulary.
</claims>
</document>
