<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/02,G06K9/00,G06N20/00,G06T7/33,G06T7/62,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN, I-KUEI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68161730
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for transforming 2D bounding boxes of objects into 3D positions for autonomous driving vehicles (ADVs)
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a system of an ADV perceives an object in a perspective view of the ADV using an image capturing device mounted on the ADV. The system generates a 2D bounding box for the object based on an image of the object captured by the image capturing device. The system determines an orientation and a 3D size of the object based on the image. The system projects onto the image a 3D representation of the object based on the orientation and the 3D size of the object. The system determines a distance from the ADV to the object based on the 3D representation of the object and the generated 2D bounding box. The system generates a trajectory in view of the determined distance from the ADV to the object to control the ADV to navigate the ADV around the object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the method comprising: perceiving an object in a perspective view of the ADV using an image capturing device mounted on the ADV; generating a 2D bounding box for the object based on an image of the object captured by the image capturing device; classifying the object to be one of a plurality of known objects based on the image of the object; determining an orientation and a size of the object based on the classification; projecting onto the image a plurality of three-dimensional (3D) representations of the object having a similar orientation and size as the object, wherein the plurality of 3D representations represents the object with varying distances to the ADV; determining a distance from the ADV to the object based on a dimension of a selected one from the plurality of 3D representations that approximately matches the dimension of the 2D bounding box; and generating a trajectory in view of the determined distance from the ADV to the object to control the ADV to navigate the ADV around the object.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the 2D bounding box for the object is generated by: applying a machine learning model to the image capturing the object; and determining a length, a width, or an area of a 2D bounding box surrounding the object based on the machine learning model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a greedy search algorithm until a dimension of the projected 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width or the height of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a binary search algorithm until a dimension of the projected 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width, the height, or the area of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprises determining a center vector to the object based on the determined distance to the objected, wherein the center vector can be used to generate a driving trajectory to control the ADV.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein determining a center vector of the object comprises: shifting a 3D representation of the object left or right until a center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a horizontal axis of a 2D center of the 2D bounding box; shifting the 3D representation or down until the center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a vertical axis of the 2D center of the 2D bounding box; and determining the center vector based on the shifting of the 3D representation and the determined distance to the object.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 6, further comprises controlling the ADV based on the determined center vector to the object.
8. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform operations, the operations comprising: perceiving an object in a perspective view of the ADV using an image capturing device mounted on the ADV; generating a 2D bounding box for the object based on an image of the object captured by the image capturing device; classifying the object to be one of a plurality of known objects based on the image of the object; determining an orientation and a 3D size of the object based on the classification; projecting onto the image a plurality of three-dimensional (3D) representations of the object having a similar orientation and size as the object, wherein the plurality of 3D representations represents the object with varying distances to the ADV; determining a distance from the ADV to the object based on a dimension of a selected one from the plurality of 3D representations that approximately matches the dimension of the 2D bounding box; and generating a trajectory in view of the determined distance from the ADV to the object to control the ADV to navigate the ADV around the object.
9. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, wherein the 2D bounding box for the object is generated by: applying a machine learning model to the image capturing the object; and determining a length, a width, or an area of a 2D bounding box surrounding the object based on the machine learning model.
10. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a greedy search algorithm until a dimension of the 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width or the height of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
11. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 9, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a binary search algorithm until a dimension of the 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width, the height, or the area of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
12. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 8, further comprises determining a center vector to the object based on the determined distance to the objected, wherein the center vector can be used to generate a driving trajectory to control the ADV.
13. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 12, wherein determining a center vector of the object comprises: shifting a 3D representation of the object left or right until a center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a horizontal axis of a 2D center of the 2D bounding box; shifting the 3D representation up or down until the center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a vertical axis of the 2D center of the 2D bounding box; and determining the center vector based on the shifting of the 3D representation and the determined distance to the object.
14. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 13, further comprising controlling the ADV based on the determined center vector to the object.
15. A data processing system, comprising: a plurality of processors; and a memory coupled to the a plurality of processors to store instructions, which when executed by the a plurality of processors, cause the a plurality of processors to perform operations, the operations including perceiving an object in a perspective view of the ADV using an image capturing device mounted on the ADV; generating a 2D bounding box for the object based on an image of the object captured by the image capturing device; classifying the object to be one of a plurality of known objects based on the image of the object; determining an orientation and a 3D size of the object based on the classification; projecting onto the image a plurality of three-dimensional (3D) representations of the object having a similar orientation and size as the object, wherein the plurality of 3D representations represents the object with varying distances to the ADV; determining a distance from the ADV to the object based on a dimension of a selected one of the plurality of 3D representations that approximately matches the dimension of the 2D bounding box; and generating a trajectory in view of the determined distance from the ADV to the object to control the ADV to navigate the ADV around the object.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the 2D bounding box for the object is generated by: applying a machine learning model to the image capturing the object; and determining a length, a width, or an area of a 2D bounding box surrounding the object based on the machine learning model.
17. The system of claim 16, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a greedy search algorithm until a dimension of the 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width or the height of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
18. The system of claim 16, further comprising: searching a size for each of the plurality of 3D representations using a binary search algorithm until a dimension of the 3D representation is within a predetermined threshold of the width, the height, or the area of the 2D bounding box; and determining the distance from the ADV to the object based on the size.
19. The system of claim 15, further comprises determining a center vector to the object based on the determined distance to the objected, wherein the center vector can be used to generate a driving trajectory to control the ADV.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein determining a center vector of the object comprises: shifting a 3D representation of the object left or right until a center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a horizontal axis of a 2D center of the 2D bounding box; shifting the 3D representation up or down until the center of the 3D representation is approximately centered to a vertical axis of the 2D center of the 2D bounding box; and determining the center vector based on the shifting of the 3D representation and the determined distance to the object.
21. The system of claim 20, further comprising controlling the ADV based on the determined center vector to the object.
</claims>
</document>
