<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/173,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
JUNIPER NETWORKS
JUNIPER NETWORKS
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAYAK, MANOJ
PUTTUR, RAFIK
Namballa, Manoj
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165439
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and method for replaying and debugging live states of network devices
</title>

<abstract>
A disclosed method may include (1) collecting telemetry data that represents a state of a network device during a live operating session, (2) deriving, from the telemetry data, a set of steps for reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session based at least in part on a set of rules, (3) generating, based at least in part on the set of steps, a playback decision tree that, upon execution, facilitates (A) reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session and (B) debugging the state of the network device, and then (4) performing a debug operation that executes the playback decision tree via a network diagnostic tool such as a healthbot. Various other systems, methods, and computer-readable media are also disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: collecting telemetry data that represents a state of a network device during a live operating session; deriving, from the telemetry data, a set of steps for reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session based at least in part on a set of rules; generating, based at least in part on the set of steps, a playback decision tree that, upon execution, facilitates: reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session; and debugging the state of the network device; performing a debug operation that executes the playback decision tree; identifying a problem with the state of the network device by executing the playback decision tree; remedying the problem with the state of the network device via a network diagnostic tool; recording one or more debug actions taken during the debug operation; and modifying the playback decision tree to account for the debug actions in future debugging operations by adding the debug actions to one or more nodes included in the playback decision tree.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein reproducing the state of the network device comprises reproducing, on a different computing device, the state of the network device during the live operating session.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising detecting a triggering event on the network device at a certain point in time; and wherein collecting the telemetry data comprises collecting the telemetry data in response to detecting the triggering event.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the triggering event comprises at least one of: a request from an administrator; an error detected on the network device; one or more pre-programmed rules; a health metric associated with the network device; and a performance metric associated with the network device.
5. The method of claim 3, further comprising detecting an additional instance of the triggering event at an additional point in time; and wherein collecting the telemetry data comprises collecting at least a portion of the telemetry data in response to detecting the additional instance of the triggering event.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising performing an additional debug operation that executes the playback decision tree in connection with the additional instance of the triggering event.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein executing the playback decision tree comprises reproducing the state of the network device during the debug operation by: reproducing a stable state of the network device; detecting an event that occurs during the debug operation; and determining that the event caused the network device to change from the stable state to an unstable state.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the playback decision tree comprises: generating a plurality of nodes that represent different states of the network device during the live operating session; and assembling the plurality of nodes into the playback decision tree.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising predicting a future system fault based at least in part on the plurality of nodes assembled into the playback decision tree.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein collecting the telemetry data comprises collecting the telemetry data from a plurality of sensors that monitor a plurality of interfaces incorporated on a forwarding engine of the network device.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the telemetry data comprises at least one of: network topology data associated with the network device; environment data of the network device; configuration data of the network device; session data of the network device; event data of the network device; log files of the network device; and trace data of the network device.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the live operating session comprises a mode of operation in which the network device is deployed within a network and handles traffic within the network.
13. The method of claim 1, further comprising: modifying the playback decision tree based at least in part on the debug operation; and performing an additional debug operation that executes the modified playback decision tree.
14. A system comprising: a collection module, stored in memory, that collects telemetry data that represents a state of a network device during a live operating session; an analysis module, stored in memory, that: derives, from the telemetry data, a set of steps for reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session based at least in part on a set of rules; generates, based at least in part on the set of steps, a playback decision tree that, upon execution, facilitates: reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session; and debugging the state of the network device; and a debug module, stored in memory, that: performs a debug operation that executes the playback decision tree; and identifies a problem with the state of the network device by executing the playback decision tree; a remedying module, stored in memory, that remedies the problem with the state of the network device via a network diagnostic tool; wherein the collection module further records one or more debug actions taken during the debug operation; wherein the analysis module further modifies the playback decision tree to account for the debug actions in future debugging operations by adding the debug actions to one or more nodes included in the playback decision tree; and at least one physical processor configured to execute the collection module, the analysis module, and the debug module.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein, to perform the debug operation, the debug module reproduces, on a different computing device, the state of the network device during the live operating session.
16. The system of claim 14, further comprising a detection module, stored in memory, that detects a triggering event on the network device at a certain point in time; and wherein the collection module collects at least a portion of the telemetry data in response to detecting the triggering event.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the triggering event comprises at least one of: a request from an administrator; an error detected on the network device; one or more pre-programmed rules; a health metric associated with the network device; and a performance metric associated with the network device.
18. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising one or more computer-readable instructions that, when executed by at least one processor of a computing device, cause the computing device to: collect telemetry data that represents a state of a network device during a live operating session; derive, from the telemetry data, a set of steps for reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session based at least in part on a set of rules; generate, based at least in part on the set of steps, a playback decision tree that, upon execution, facilitates: reproducing the state of the network device during the live operating session; and debugging the state of the network device; perform a debug operation that executes the playback decision tree; identify a problem with the state of the network device by executing the playback decision tree; remedy the problem with the state of the network device via a network diagnostic tool; record one or more debug actions taken during the debug operation; and modify the playback decision tree to account for the debug actions in future debugging operations by adding the debug actions to one or more nodes included in the playback decision tree.
</claims>
</document>
