<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B6/00,A61B6/04,A61B6/08,G03B42/02,G06T17/00,G06T7/292
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
JORGER, CLEMENS
NANKE, RALF
OEPPING, SUSANNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60813618
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and apparatus for ensuring correct positioning for a radiography acquisition
</title>

<abstract>
A method for positioning a body region of a patient for a radiography acquisition by a radiography system includes providing an examination requirement for the body region, pre-positioning the body region in the radiography system for the radiography acquisition, pre-positioning an acquisition unit of the radiography system for the radiography acquisition, producing a three-dimensional positioning acquisition of the body region using a 3D camera system, and producing a preview image from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition. A patient model is generated from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition and the preview image is produced from the patient model, and the preview image depicts a representation as if made using the acquisition unit of the radiography system. The method further includes outputting at least one of the preview image and positioning information based on the preview image. Another embodiment may use an apparatus and computer readable medium to execute the method above.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for positioning a body region of a patient for a radiography acquisition by a radiography system, the method comprising: providing an examination requirement for the body region; pre-positioning the body region in the radiography system for the radiography acquisition; pre-positioning an acquisition unit of the radiography system for the radiography acquisition; producing a three-dimensional positioning acquisition of the body region using a 3D camera system, the three-dimensional positioning acquisition being a three-dimensional surface image of the body region; producing a preview image from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition, wherein a patient model is generated from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition and the preview image is produced from the patient model, the preview image depicts a preview of an image generated by the acquisition unit, the patient model being a three-dimensional patient model produced from the three-dimensional surface image and three-dimensional organ data objects of an organ database, the three-dimensional organ data object positioned based on the three-dimensional surface image; and outputting at least one of the preview image and positioning information based on the preview image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the patient model is produced based upon at least one of a machine learning model and a statistical body model.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the patient model has a form of an avatar.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the examination requirement specifies additional acquisition parameters for the acquisition unit, and the preview image simulates a radiography acquisition using these acquisition parameters.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview image is displayed on a screen or as a projection.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the positioning information contains information on settings to be adjusted and whether the preview image is acceptable according to the examination requirement.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the positioning information contains information indicating what settings should be adjusted.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the outputting at least one of the preview image and positioning information uses at least one of a visual indicator and an audible indicator.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the positioning information contains at least one of information on how a setpoint position appears, navigation information, and information indicating whether the setpoint position is reached.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the outputting at least one of the preview image and positioning information includes displaying a change in a light field of the radiography system, wherein at least one of brightness and color of the light field changes based on correct positioning.
11. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: determining a correct position of the acquisition unit based on the examination requirement, and producing a radiography acquisition by the acquisition unit, wherein the determining the correct position includes performing the method of claim 1 at least one time, and at least one of the body region and acquisition unit are in a different position each performance of the method of claim 1.
12. A non-transitory computer program product comprising a computer program, directly loadable into a memory device of a control device or a memory device of a processing device, including program segments to perform the method of claim 1 when the computer program is executed via the control device or the processing device.
13. A non-transitory computer-readable medium, storing program segments, readable and executable by a processing unit to perform the method of claim 1 when the program segments are executed by the processing unit.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the preview image is produced using a combination of the position of the pre-positioned acquisition unit and the three-dimensional patient model.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the examination requirements includes parameters for the acquisition unit, the 3D camera system, the preview image, and a position of the acquisition unit.
16. An apparatus for positioning a body region of a patient for a radiography acquisition by a radiography system, comprising: an interface configured to provide an examination requirement for the body region; an interface configured to pre-position an acquisition unit of the radiography system; at least one of a 3D camera system configured to produce a three-dimensional positioning acquisition of the body region, and a data interface to receive the three-dimensional positioning acquisition, the three-dimensional positioning acquisition being a three-dimensional surface image of the body region; a production unit configured to produce a preview image from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition, the production unit being configured to produce the preview image from a patient model generated from the three-dimensional positioning acquisition, the preview image depicts a preview of an image generated by the acquisition unit, the patient model being a three-dimensional patient model produced from the three-dimensional surface image and three-dimensional organ data objects of an organ database, the three-dimensional organ data objects positioned based on the three-dimensional surface image; and an output unit configured to output at least one of the preview image and positioning information based on the preview image.
17. A control device comprising the apparatus of claim 16.
18. A radiography system comprising the control device of claim 17.
19. The apparatus of claim 16, wherein the output unit is further configured to perform automatic analysis of the preview image to ascertain whether the preview image correctly represents the body region for the radiography acquisition.
</claims>
</document>
