<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-23
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B65G43/00,G06K9/00,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHINOY, AMMAR
TAYLOR, AMBER AUTREY
FAMULARO, JASON MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68765987
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Controlling access to items in an inventory location
</title>

<abstract>
Access to items stored within an inventory location of a facility may be controlled using physical access control mechanisms. A user within a facility is detected by sensors, such as imaging sensors. Context data for the user is generated based on the sensor data. The context data includes permission data indicative of portions of the inventory location that are accessible or inaccessible to the user. In addition, a predicted path of the user may also be determined based on historical data of the user or other users of the facility. Using the permission data and the predicted path of the user, configuration data may be generated to specify the level of access control to be applied to the different portions of the inventory location. The configuration data is sent to access control mechanisms of the inventory location to prevent or allow access to such portions of the inventory location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: acquiring an image of a first user with an imaging sensor; determining first data associated with the first user of a facility, wherein the first data indicates one or more first permissions associated with the first user accessing one or more portions of an inventory location within the facility; accessing second data indicative of one or more predicted paths of the first user within the facility, wherein the one or more predicted paths are based on one or more of previous movements of at least a second user or a presence of the at least the second user within the facility; generating third data for the inventory location using the first data and the second data, wherein the third data is indicative of at least one portion of the one or more portions of the inventory location and a level of access control to be applied to the at least one portion of the one or more portions of the inventory location; and sending the third data to one or more access control mechanisms associated with the inventory location to control access, by the first user, to the one or more portions of the inventory location.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first data is indicative of one or more of: an age of the first user, a threshold age associated with one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location, a distance between the first user and a third user, a relationship between the first user and the third user, a cost of the one or more items, historical activity associated with the first user, or interaction data indicative of one or more interactions between the first user and the one or more items.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more first permissions are based on one or more of: an identity of the first user, an age of the first user, a threshold age associated with one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location, a cost associated with the one or more items, a history of interactions between the first user and the one or more items, a relationship between the first user and a third user, or a delegation or removal of permissions to the first user.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first permissions specify one or more of: unrestricted access to the one or more portions of the inventory location, or restricted access to at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: actuating at least one of the one or more access control mechanisms based on the third data, responsive to a present location of the first user within the facility; and wherein the one or more predicted paths of the first user include the inventory location.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more first permissions are indicative of the first user being restricted from accessing at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location; and the method further comprising: detecting a third user within the facility; determining fourth data indicative of one or more second permissions associated with the third user, wherein the one or more second permissions are indicative of the third user being allowed access to the one or more portions of the inventory location; determining the third user is related to the first user; determining the third user is within a predetermined distance of the inventory location; and generating fifth data for the inventory location, wherein the fifth data indicates the one or more portions of the inventory location are accessible to the first user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein: the one or more predicted paths of the first user are further based on one or more of: an identity of the first user, items acquired by the first user during previous visits to the facility, a physical layout of the facility, a current location of the first user, a current direction of motion of the first user, or previous movements of the first user.
8. A system comprising: one or more sensors to acquire first data; an inventory location comprising one or more access control mechanisms; a memory, storing computer-executable instructions; and a hardware processor in communication with the one or more sensors, the one or more access control mechanisms, and the memory, wherein the hardware processor executes the computer-executable instructions to: detect a first user at an entry area of a facility or an aisle of the facility based on the first data; generate second data associated with the first user when the first user is detected at the entry area of the facility or the aisle of the facility; determine, using the second data, third data indicative of one or more first permissions associated with the first user accessing one or more portions of the inventory location; generate fourth data for the one or more portions of the inventory location; and send the fourth data to the one or more access control mechanisms of the inventory location to prevent or allow access to the one or more portions of the inventory location.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein: the fourth data comprises: first configuration data indicative of the first user being restricted access to a first portion of the inventory location; and second configuration data indicative of the first user being allowed access to a second portion of the inventory location; and the hardware processor to further execute the computer-executable instructions to: actuate a first access control mechanism of the one or more access control mechanisms, based on the first configuration data, to prevent access to the first portion of the inventory location; and actuate a second access control mechanism of the one or more access control mechanisms, based on the second configuration data, to allow access to the second portion of the inventory location.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more first permissions indicate restricted access to at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location to the first user; and the hardware processor to further execute the computer-executable instructions to: determine the first user is within a threshold distance of the inventory location; and actuate the one or more access control mechanisms to prevent access to the at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location, responsive to the first user being within the threshold distance of the inventory location.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein: the second data is indicative of one or more of: an age of the first user, a threshold age associated with one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location, a distance between the first user and a second user, a relationship between the first user and the second user, a cost associated with the one or more items, historical activity associated with the first user, interaction data indicative of one or more interactions between the first user and the one or more items, or a predicted path of the first user in the facility.
12. The system of claim 8, the hardware processor to further execute the computer-executable instructions to: generate a predicted path of the first user; wherein the predicted path of the first user includes the inventory location; and wherein the predicted path of the first user is determined based on one or more of: an identity of the first user, items acquired by the first user during previous visits to the facility, a physical layout of the facility, a current location of the first user, a current direction of motion of the first user, previous movements of the first user, or movements of other users within the facility.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein: the one or more sensors include an imaging sensor; the first data comprises an image of the first user; and the hardware processor to further execute the computer-executable instructions to: process the image of the first user to determine one or more: an age of the first user, a location of the first user in the facility, or an interaction between the first user and one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location; and include information about the age, the location, or the interaction in the second data.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the one or more access control mechanisms include one or more of: a moveable barrier, a moveable inventory location, a lockable hanger, a tether, a dispenser, or a gate.
15. A system comprising: one or more sensors to generate first data; an inventory location comprising one or more access control mechanisms; a memory, storing computer-executable instructions; and a hardware processor in communication with the one or more sensors, the one or more access control mechanisms, and the memory, wherein the hardware processor executes the computer-executable instructions to: identify a first user based on the first data; determine second data associated with the first user, the second data indicative of one or more first permissions associated with the first user accessing one or more portions of the inventory location; determine the first user has performed one or more actions at a facility, the one or more actions comprising one or more of: the first user damaging one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location, or the first user misplacing the one or more items in an incorrect inventory location; determine third data associated with the first user based on the first user performing the one or more actions, the third data indicative of one or more second permissions associated with the first user accessing the one or more portions of the inventory location; generate fourth data for the one or more portions of the inventory location based on the third data; and send the fourth data to the one or more access control mechanisms to prevent or allow access to the one or more portions of the inventory location.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein: the one or more first permissions are based on one or more of: an identity of the first user, an age of the first user, a threshold age associated with the one or more items at the one or more portions of the inventory location, a location of the first user, an orientation of the first user, a position of the first user, a distance between the first user and a second user, a relationship between the first user and the second user, a cost of the one or more items, historical activity associated with the first user, interaction data indicative of one or more interactions between the first user and the one or more items, or a delegation or removal of permissions to the first user.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the one or more first permissions associated with the first user are different from the one or more second permissions associated with the first user.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein: the first data comprises one or more images inclusive of the first user; and the identification of the first user is based on one or more of: facial recognition, clothing recognition, or gait recognition.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein: the one or more first permissions allow the first user full access to the one or more portions of the inventory location; the one or more second permissions restrict access by the first user to at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location; and the hardware processor to further execute the computer-executable instructions to: actuate the one or more access control mechanisms to restrict access to the at least one of the one or more portions of the inventory location.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein: the second data further comprises information regarding a predicted path for the first user within the facility; the inventory location is located along the predicted path; and the one or more first permissions are based on the inventory location being located along the predicted path.
</claims>
</document>
