<document>

<filing_date>
2016-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B33Y50/00,B33Y50/02,B33Y80/00,G06F111/02,G06F16/178,G06F16/2457,G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06F30/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q20/12,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAVI, OLA
LEVY NIR
PORTER RUBINSHTEIN, DANA
SAGIV, AVI
SCHLESINGER, BENNY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59276869
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Control and access of digital files for three dimensional model printing
</title>

<abstract>
Control and access of digital files for three dimensional (3D) model printing are supported by an authorized 3D model marketplace. At a system providing the 3D model marketplace, a 3D model file catalog can be searched using a search input that may be at least one image to identify possible results. At least two options for a specific result of the possible results can be available. The at least two options can include an original quality 3D model file and a degrade option 3D model file. The degrade option 3D model file may represent a lower quality or altered version of the original quality 3D model file and can be generated from the original quality 3D model file upon selection of the degrade mode option.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for control and access of digital files for three dimensional (3D) model printing, the method comprising: searching a 3D model printing file catalog comprising structured data or semi-structured data using a search input to identify possible results relevant to the search input; providing, to a 3D model marketplace application, at least two selection options for a specific file of the possible results, the at least two selection options comprising an original quality 3D model printing file of the specific file and a degrade option 3D model printing file of the specific file; in response to receiving a selection of the original quality 3D model printing file, via the 3D model marketplace application, communicating at least a file identifier of the specific file to a destination; and in response to receiving a selection of the degrade option 3D model printing file, via the 3D model marketplace application, communicating at least the file identifier of the specific file and a degrade mode indicator to the destination.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the degrade mode indicator indicates a modification of the original quality 3D model printing file that degrades the quality of the original quality 3D model printing file.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the modification comprises one or more of changing a size of an object represented by the original quality 3D model printing file, changing a color of the object, changing a material used for printing the object, adding a watermark to the object, adding or removing a feature or element of the object, and adding visual content onto the object.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the degrade mode indicator comprises instructions understood by a printer that modify a print setting such as to force a lower quality or lower resolution printing.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the destination is a specified printer or a storage location indicated by a user.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the search input comprises at least one image of an object.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising receiving at least information of the original quality 3D model printing file; storing the information of the original quality 3D model printing file, including the file identifier in the 3D model printing file catalog.
8. A system for control and access of digital files for three dimensional (3D) model printing, the system comprising: a processing system a storage system; a 3D model printing file catalog stored on at least one storage resource of the storage system, the 3D model printing file catalog comprising structured data or semi-structured data; and instructions stored on at least one storage resource of the storage system that when executed by the processing system, direct the processing system to provide an authorized 3D model marketplace, the instructions that direct the processing system to provide the authorized 3D model marketplace direct the system to at least: populate the 3D model printing file catalog with files, including at least information of an original quality 3D model printing file; receive, via a 3D model marketplace application, a search input; search the 3D model printing file catalog using the search input; identify possible results relevant to the search input; provide, to the 3D model marketplace application, at least two selection options for a specific file of the possible results, the specific file being a file corresponding to the original quality 3D model printing file, wherein the at least two selection options comprise the original quality 3D model printing file and a degrade option 3D model printing file; and in response to receiving a selection of the original quality 3D model printing file, via the 3D model marketplace application, communicate at least a file identifier of the specific file to a destination; and in response to receiving a selection of the degrade option 3D model file, via the 3D model marketplace application, communicate at least the file identifier of the specific file and a degrade mode indicator to the destination.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the degrade mode indicator indicates a modification of the original quality 3D model printing file that degrades the quality of the original quality 3D model printing file.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the modification comprises one or more of changing a size of an object represented by the original quality 3D model printing file, changing a color of the object, changing a material used for printing the object, adding a watermark to the object, adding or removing a feature or element of the object, and adding visual content onto the object.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the degrade mode indicator comprises instructions understood by a printer that modify the print setting such as to force a lower quality or lower resolution printing.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the destination is a specified printer or a storage location indicated by a user.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the search input comprises at least one image of an object.
14. One or more computer readable storage media having instructions for an authorized three dimensional (3D) model marketplace stored thereon that when executed by a processing system, direct the processing system to: receive a search input from a 3D model marketplace application at a client device; search a 3D model printing file catalog comprising structured data or semi-structured data using search input to identify possible results relevant to the search input; communicate the possible results to the 3D model marketplace application, the possible results comprising at least a degrade option 3D model printing file of a specific file of the possible results; and in response to receiving a selection of the degrade option 3D model printing file of the specific file, associate a degrade mode indicator with the specific file.
15. The media of claim 14, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to modify an original quality 3D model printing file according to the degrade mode indicator associated with the specific file.
16. The media of claim 15, wherein the degrade mode indicator indicates a modification of the original quality 3D model printing file.
17. The media of claim 16, wherein the modification comprises one or more of changing a size of an object represented by the original quality 3D model printing file, changing a color of the object, changing a material used for printing the object, adding a watermark to the object, adding or removing a feature or element of the object, and adding visual content onto the object.
18. The media of claim 14, wherein the degrade mode indicator comprises instructions understood by a printer that modify the print setting such as to force a lower quality or lower resolution printing.
19. The media of claim 14, wherein the instructions further direct the processing system to, in response to receiving the selection of the degrade option 3D model printing file of the specific file, communicate at least a file identifier of the specific file and the degrade mode indicator to a destination.
20. The media of claim 19, wherein the destination is a specified printer or a storage location indicated by a user.
</claims>
</document>
