<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61N5/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
VARIAN MEDICAL SYSTEMS INTERNATIONAL
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUUSELA, ESA
PELTOLA, JARKKO, Y.
PYYRY, JOAKIM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63791369
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Knowledge based treatment planning corrected for biological effects
</title>

<abstract>
Solutions are provided herein that specifically accounts for biological effects of tissue during radiation planning (such as treatment planning). In one or more embodiments, the biological effects may be calculated by accessing a knowledge base to determine reference data comprising at least one biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ, predicting a biological effect for the plurality of identified structures based on the biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ, and generating or modifying a radiation plan based on the biological effect. By incorporating biological data and fraction dose information, dose-estimation models can be created and trained to more accurately estimate dose absorption and effectiveness. Moreover, existing estimation models may be adapted to create dose estimations that account for the biological efficiency of target structures.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, in a radiation plan, a plurality of structures of a radiation target; identifying at least one organ from the plurality of structures; accessing a knowledge base to determine reference data, the reference data comprising at least one biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ, the at least one biological characteristic comprises at least one of: a recovery rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a repopulation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-distribution rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-oxygenation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; and a radio resistance rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; predicting a radiation-target specific biological effect for the plurality of structures based on the biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ; generating a radiation plan based on the predicted biological effect; and applying radiation, via a radiation application device coupled to a radiation source, to the radiation target according to the radiation plan.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting the biological effect comprises applying a data model to the at least one biological characteristic.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the data model comprises a linear-quadratic (LQ) data model.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating a radiation plan comprises plotting a dose-volume histogram (DVH) curve for each structure of the plurality of structures based on a radiation dose adjusted to account for the predicted biological effect.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the radiation plan comprises a plan to apply the radiation according to a plurality of fractionations.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the predicting the biological effect comprises factoring at least one of: a user-supplied biological effect parameter; a pre-determined biological effect parameter; and a structure-based biological effect parameter.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the predicting a biological effect comprises: determining an absolute dose distribution from the radiation plan; determining a fraction dose based on the absolute dose distribution and a plurality of fractionations; and determining the biological effect based on the at least one biological characteristic and corresponding to the plurality of fractionations.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising converting the biological effect to a DVH estimation based on the fraction dose.
9. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising a plurality of programmed instructions which, when executed by a processor in a computing system, is operable to implement radiation application planning, the computer readable medium comprising: instructions to determine, in a radiation plan, a plurality of structures of a radiation target; instructions to identify at least one organ from the plurality of structures; instructions to access a knowledge base to determine reference data, the reference data comprising at least one biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ, the at least one biological characteristic comprises at least one of: a recovery rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a repopulation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-distribution rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-oxygenation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; and a radio resistance rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; instructions to predict a radiation-target specific biological effect for the plurality of structures based on the biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ; instructions to generate a radiation plan based on the biological effect; and instructions to apply, via a radiation application device coupled to a radiation source, radiation to the radiation target according to the radiation plan.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions to predict the biological effect comprise instructions to apply a data model to the at least one biological characteristic.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 10, wherein the data model comprises a linear-quadratic (LQ) data model.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the radiation plan comprises a plan to apply the radiation according to a plurality of fractionations.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 12, wherein the instructions to predict a biological effect comprises: instructions to determine an absolute dose distribution from the radiation plan; instructions to determine a fraction dose based on the absolute dose distribution and the plurality of fractionations; and instructions to determine the biological effect based on the at least one biological characteristic and corresponding to the plurality of fractionations.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 13, further comprising instructions to convert the biological effect to a DVH estimation based on the fraction dose.
15. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 4, wherein the instructions to generate a radiation plan comprises instructions to plot a DVH curve for each structure of the plurality of structures based on a radiation dose adjusted to account for the predicted biological effect.
16. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 9, wherein the instructions to predict the biological effect comprises instructions to factor at least one of: a user-supplied biological effect parameter; a pre-determined biological effect parameter; and a structure-based biological effect parameter.
17. A method comprising: determining, in a radiation plan, a plurality of structures of a radiation target; identifying at least one organ from the plurality of structures; accessing a knowledge base to determine reference data, the reference data comprising at least one biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ, the at least one biological characteristic comprises at least one of: a recovery rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a repopulation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-distribution rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; a re-oxygenation rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; and a radio resistance rate corresponding to at least one structure of the plurality of structures; predicting a radiation-target specific biological effect for the plurality of structures based on the biological characteristic corresponding to the at least one organ; generating a radiation plan based on the predicted biological effect; and applying radiation, via a radiation application device coupled to a radiation source, to the radiation target according to the radiation plan, wherein the radiation plan comprises a plan to apply the radiation according to a plurality of fractionations.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the predicting the biological effect comprises applying a data model to the at least one biological characteristic.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the data model comprises a linear-quadratic (LQ) data model.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the generating a radiation plan comprises plotting a DVH curve for each structure of the plurality of structures based on a radiation dose adjusted to account for the predicted biological effect.
21. The method of claim 17, wherein the predicting the biological effect comprises factoring at least one of: a user-supplied biological effect parameter; a pre-determined biological effect parameter; and a structure-based biological effect parameter.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the predicting a biological effect comprises: determining an absolute dose distribution from the radiation plan; determining a fraction dose based on the absolute dose distribution and the plurality of fractionations; and determining the biological effect based on the at least one biological characteristic and corresponding to the plurality of fractionations.
23. The method of claim 22, further comprising converting the biological effect to a DVH estimation based on the fraction dose.
</claims>
</document>
