<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/063,G11C11/00,G11C11/16,G11C11/54,G11C17/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GYRFALCON TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LIU, DANIEL
TORNG, CHYU-JIUH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63670644
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Memory subsystem in CNN based digital IC for artificial intelligence
</title>

<abstract>
CNN (Cellular Neural Networks or Cellular Nonlinear Networks) based digital Integrated Circuit for artificial intelligence contains multiple CNN processing units. Each CNN processing unit contains CNN logic circuits operatively coupling to a memory subsystem having first and second memories. The first memory contains magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells for storing weights (e.g., filter coefficients) while the second memory is for storing input signals (e.g., imagery data). The first memory may store one-time-programming weights or filter coefficients. The memory subsystem may contain a third memory that contains MRAM cells for storing one-time-programming data for security purpose. The second memory contains MRAM cells or static random access memory cells. Each MRAM cell contains a voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element. Magnetization direction in VCMA based MTJ element can be in-plane or out-of-plane.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A digital integrated circuit for artificial intelligence comprising: a semi-conductor substrate embedded in a single semi-conductor chip, the semi-conductor substrate containing a plurality of cellular neural networks (CNN) processing units, each CNN processing unit comprising: CNN logic circuits; and an embedded memory subsystem operatively coupled to the CNN logic circuits; the embedded memory subsystem further comprising: a first memory for storing a set of weights; and a second memory for storing input signals that require higher endurance of balanced data read and write operations than the first memory.
2. The digital integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the first memory contains a first plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the first plurality of MRAM cells containing a first in-plane voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element.
3. The digital integrated circuit of claim 2, wherein the first in-plane VCMA based MTJ element comprises an elliptical planar shape having a range of 40-120 nm in minor-dimension and 120-360 nm in major-dimension.
4. The digital integrated circuit of claim 2, wherein the second memory contains a second plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the second plurality of MRAM cells containing a second in-plane voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element.
5. The digital integrated circuit of claim 4, wherein the second in-plane VCMA based MTJ element comprises an elliptical planar shape having a range of 30-80 nm in minor-dimension and 90-240 nm in major-dimension.
6. The digital integrated circuit of claim 2, wherein the second memory contains a plurality of static random access memory (SRAM) cells.
7. The digital integrated circuit of claim 1, wherein the first memory contains a first plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the first plurality of MRAM cells containing a first out-of-plane voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element.
8. The digital integrated circuit of claim 7, wherein the first out-of-plane VCMA based MTJ element comprises a circular planar shape having a range of 40-120 nm in diameter.
9. The digital integrated circuit of claim 7, wherein the second memory contains a second plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the second plurality of MRAM cells containing a second out-of-plane voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element.
10. The digital integrated circuit of claim 9, wherein the second out-of-plane VCMA based MTJ element comprises a circular planar shape having a range of 30-80 nm in diameter.
11. The digital integrated circuit of claim 7, wherein the second memory contains a plurality of static random access memory (SRAM) cells.
12. A digital integrated circuit for artificial intelligence comprising: a semi-conductor substrate embedded in a single semi-conductor chip, the semi-conductor substrate containing a plurality of cellular neural networks (CNN) processing units, each CNN processing unit comprising: CNN logic circuits; and an embedded memory subsystem operatively coupled to the CNN logic circuits; the embedded memory subsystem further comprising: a first memory for storing a set of one-time-programming weights; and a second memory for storing input signals that require higher endurance of balanced data read and write operations than the first memory.
13. The digital integrated circuit of claim 12, wherein the first memory contains a first plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the first plurality of MRAM cells containing a first voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element and the second memory contains a second plurality of MRAM cells with each of the second plurality of MRAM cells containing a second voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based MTJ element.
14. The digital integrated circuit of claim 13, wherein each of the first and the second VCMA based MTJ elements comprises an elliptical planar shape with in-plane magnetization.
15. The digital integrated circuit of claim 13, wherein each of the first and the second VCMA based MTJ elements comprises a circular planar shape with out-of-plane magnetization.
16. The digital integrated circuit of claim 12, wherein the first memory contains a plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the plurality of MRAM cells containing a voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element and the second memory contains a plurality of static random access memory (SRAM) cells.
17. A digital integrated circuit for artificial intelligence comprising: a semi-conductor substrate in a single semi-conductor chip, the semi-conductor substrate containing a plurality of cellular neural networks (CNN) processing units, each CNN processing unit comprising: CNN logic circuits; and an embedded memory subsystem operatively coupled to the CNN logic circuits; the embedded memory subsystem further comprising: a first memory for storing a set of weights; a second memory for storing input signals that require higher endurance of balanced data read and write operations than the first memory; and a third memory for storing a one-time-programming unique data pattern written thereon for security purpose.
18. The digital integrated circuit of claim 17, wherein the first memory contains a first plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the first plurality of MRAM cells containing a first voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element, the second memory contains a second plurality of MRAM cells with each of the second plurality of MRAM cells containing a second voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based MTJ element, and the third memory contains a third plurality of MRAM cells with each of the third plurality of MRAM cells containing a third voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based MTJ element.
19. The digital integrated circuit of claim 17, wherein the first memory contains a first plurality of magnetic random access memory (MRAM) cells with each of the first plurality of MRAM cells containing a first voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based magnetic tunnel junction (MTJ) element, the second memory contains a plurality of static random access memory (SRAM) cells, and the third memory contains a second plurality of MRAM cells with each of the second plurality of MRAM cells containing a second voltage-controlled magnetic anisotropy (VCMA) based MTJ element.
20. The digital integrated circuit of claim 17, wherein the semi-conductor substrate comprises a silicon chip.
</claims>
</document>
