<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61K35/15,A61K39/00,G06F19/22,G16B30/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GRITSTONE ONCOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BULIK-SULLIVAN, BRENDAN
BUSBY, JENNIFER
DERTI, ADNAN
YELENSKY, ROMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59057557
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Neoantigen identification, manufacture, and use
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed herein is a system and methods for determining the alleles, neoantigens, and vaccine composition as determined on the basis of an individual's tumor mutations. Also disclosed are systems and methods for obtaining high quality sequencing data from a tumor. Further, described herein are systems and methods for identifying somatic changes in polymorphic genome data. Finally, described herein are unique cancer vaccines.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for identifying one or more neoantigens from one or more tumor cells of a subject that are likely to be presented on surface of the tumor cells, comprising the steps of: obtaining at least one of exome, transcriptome, or whole genome nucleotide sequencing data from the tumor cells and normal cells of the subject, wherein the nucleotide sequencing data is used to obtain data representing peptide sequences of each of a set of neoantigens identified by comparing the nucleotide sequencing data from the tumor cells and the nucleotide sequencing data from the normal cells, wherein the peptide sequence of each neoantigen comprises at least one alteration that makes it distinct from the corresponding wild-type peptide sequence identified from the normal cells of the subject; encoding the peptide sequences of each of the neoantigens into a corresponding numerical vector, each numerical vector including information regarding a plurality of amino acids that make up the peptide sequence and a set of positions of the amino acids in the peptide sequence; determining, using a neural network model stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium of one or more computing devices, a set of presentation likelihoods for the set of neoantigens, each presentation likelihood in the set representing the likelihood that a corresponding neoantigen is presented by one or more class I MHC alleles on the surface of the tumor cells of the subject, the neural network model comprising: two or more layers comprising a first layer and a second layer, each layer comprising one or more nodes, wherein said nodes comprise a memory location for one or more input values; a plurality of connections between nodes of said first layer and one or more nodes of said second layer, optimized parameters stored in memory locations, wherein the optimized parameters transform input values of nodes of the first layer into input values for nodes of the second layer connected to the nodes of the first layer, wherein the optimized parameters are generated using a training data set comprising: at least one class I MHC allele in a set of class I MHC alleles identified as present in the sample; training peptide sequences encoded as numerical vectors including information regarding a plurality of amino acids that make up the peptides and a set of positions of the amino acids in the peptides, and for each of the training peptide sequences, a label indicating whether the training peptide sequence was presented by one or more class I MHC alleles in a set of class I MHC alleles, wherein the set of class I MHC alleles for at least one of the samples includes at least two different class I MHC alleles; wherein said determining comprises: forward feeding the numerical vectors, using a computer processor, through nodes of the first layer and the second layer of the neural network model, said forward feeding comprising transforming values of the numerical vectors as they are fed from nodes of the first layer to nodes of the second layer using the optimized parameters; generating, using a computer processor, a set of presentation likelihoods for the set of antigens from the transformed numerical vectors, each presentation likelihood in the set representing the likelihood that a corresponding antigen is presented by one or more class I MHC alleles on the surface of the tumor cells of the subject; selecting a subset of the set of neoantigens based on the set of presentation likelihoods to generate a set of selected neoantigens; and returning the set of selected neoantigens.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the set of presentation likelihoods for the set of antigens further comprises: generating a dependency score for each of the one or more class I MHC alleles indicating whether the class I MHC allele will present the neoantigen based on the particular amino acids at the particular positions of the peptide sequence.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the set of presentation likelihoods for the set of antigens further comprises: transforming the dependency scores to generate a corresponding per-allele likelihood for each class I MHC allele indicating a likelihood that the corresponding class I MHC allele will present the corresponding neoantigen; and combining the per-allele likelihoods to generate the presentation likelihood of the neoantigen.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the transforming the dependency scores models the presentation of the neoantigen as mutually exclusive across the one or more class I MHC alleles.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the set of presentation likelihoods are further identified by at least one or more allele noninteracting features, and further comprising: applying the neural network model to the allele noninteracting features to generate a dependency score for the allele noninteracting features indicating whether the peptide sequence of the corresponding neoantigen will be presented based on the allele noninteracting features.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: combining the dependency score for each class I MHC allele in the one or more class I MHC alleles with the dependency score for the allele noninteracting feature; and transforming the combined dependency scores for each class I MHC allele to generate a per-allele likelihood for each class I MHC allele indicating a likelihood that the corresponding class I MHC allele will present the corresponding neoantigen; and combining the per-allele likelihoods to generate the presentation likelihood.
7. The method of claim 5, further comprising: combining the dependency scores for each of the class I MHC alleles and the dependency score for the allele noninteracting features; and transforming the combined dependency scores to generate the presentation likelihood.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more class I MHC alleles include two or more different class I MHC alleles.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the peptide sequences comprise peptide sequences having lengths other than 9 amino acids.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein encoding the peptide sequence comprises encoding the peptide sequence using a one-hot encoding scheme.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of samples comprise at least one of: (a) one or more cell lines engineered to express a single MHC class I allele; (b) one or more cell lines engineered to express a plurality of MHC class I alleles; (c) one or more human cell lines obtained or derived from a plurality of patients; (d) fresh or frozen tumor samples obtained from a plurality of patients; and (e) fresh or frozen tissue samples obtained from a plurality of patients.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the training data set further comprises at least one of: (a) data associated with peptide-MHC binding affinity measurements for at least one of the training peptide sequences; and (b) data associated with peptide-MHC binding stability measurements for at least one of the training peptide sequences.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of presentation likelihoods are further identified by at least expression levels of the one or more class I MHC alleles in the subject, as measured by RNA-seq or mass spectrometry.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the set of numerical likelihoods are further identified by features comprising at least one of: (a) the C-terminal sequences flanking the neoantigen encoded peptide sequence within its source protein sequence; and (b) the N-terminal sequences flanking the neoantigen encoded peptide sequence within its source protein sequence.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting the set of selected neoantigens comprises selecting neoantigens that have an increased likelihood of being presented on the tumor cell surface relative to unselected neoantigens based on the neural network model.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more tumor cells are selected from the group consisting of: lung cancer, melanoma, breast cancer, ovarian cancer, prostate cancer, kidney cancer, gastric cancer, colon cancer, testicular cancer, head and neck cancer, pancreatic cancer, brain cancer, B-cell lymphoma, acute myelogenous leukemia, chronic myelogenous leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, and T cell lymphocytic leukemia, non-small cell lung cancer, and small cell lung cancer.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising generating an output for constructing a personalized cancer vaccine from the set of selected neoantigens.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the output for the personalized cancer vaccine comprises at least one peptide sequence or at least one nucleotide sequence encoding the set of selected neoantigens.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural network model includes a plurality of network models for the at least two different class I MHC alleles, each network model assigned to a corresponding class I MHC allele in the at least two different class I MHC alleles and including a series of nodes arranged in one or more layers.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein the neural network model is trained by updating the parameters of the neural network model, and wherein the parameters of at least two network models are jointly updated for at least one training iteration.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising identifying one or more T-cells that are antigen-specific for at least one of the neoantigens in the subset.
22. A system comprising: a processor configured to execute computer-executable instructions for performing a method comprising: obtaining at least one of exome, transcriptome, or whole genome nucleotide sequencing data from the tumor cells and normal cells of the subject, wherein the nucleotide sequencing data is used to obtain data representing peptide sequences of each of a set of neoantigens identified by comparing the nucleotide sequencing data from the tumor cells and the nucleotide sequencing data from the normal cells, wherein the peptide sequence of each neoantigen comprises at least one alteration that makes it distinct from the corresponding wild-type peptide sequence identified from the normal cells of the subject; encoding the peptide sequences of each of the neoantigens into a corresponding numerical vector, each numerical vector including information regarding a plurality of amino acids that make up the peptide sequence and a set of positions of the amino acids in the peptide sequence; determining, using a neural network model stored in a non-transitory computer readable medium of one or more computing devices, a set of presentation likelihoods for the set of neoantigens, each presentation likelihood in the set representing the likelihood that a corresponding neoantigen is presented by one or more class I MHC alleles on the surface of the tumor cells of the subject, the neural network model comprising: two or more layers comprising a first layer and a second layer, each layer comprising one or more nodes, wherein said nodes comprise a memory location for one or more input values; a plurality of connections between nodes of said first layer and one or more nodes of said second layer, optimized parameters stored in memory locations, wherein the optimized parameters transform input values of nodes of the first layer into input values for nodes of the second layer connected to the nodes of the first layer, wherein the optimized parameters are generated using a training data set comprising: at least one class I MHC allele in a set of class I MHC alleles identified as present in the sample, training peptide sequences encoded as numerical vectors including information regarding a plurality of amino acids that make up the peptides and a set of positions of the amino acids in the peptides, and for each of the training peptide sequences, a label indicating whether the training peptide sequence was presented by one or more class I MHC alleles in a set of class I MHC alleles, wherein the set of class I MHC alleles for at least one of the samples includes at least two different class I MHC alleles; wherein said determining comprises: forward feeding the numerical vectors, using a computer processor, through nodes of the first layer and the second layer of the neural network model, said forward feeding comprising transforming values of the numerical vectors as they are fed from nodes of the first layer to nodes of the second layer using the optimized parameters; generating, using a computer processor, a set of presentation likelihoods for the set of antigens from the transformed numerical vectors, each presentation likelihood in the set representing the likelihood that a corresponding antigen is presented by one or more class I MHC alleles on the surface of the tumor cells of the subject; selecting a subset of the set of neoantigens based on the set of presentation likelihoods to generate a set of selected neoantigens; and returning the set of selected neoantigens.
23. The system of claim 22, wherein generating the set of presentation likelihoods for the set of antigens further comprises: generating a dependency score for each of the one or more class I MHC alleles indicating whether the class I MHC allele will present the neoantigen based on the particular amino acids at the particular positions of the peptide sequence; transforming the dependency scores to generate a corresponding per-allele likelihood for each class I MHC allele indicating a likelihood that the corresponding class I MHC allele will present the corresponding neoantigen; and combining the per-allele likelihoods to generate the presentation likelihood of the neoantigen.
24. The system of claim 22, wherein the one or more class I MHC alleles include two or more different class I MHC alleles.
25. The system of claim 22, wherein the set of numerical likelihoods are further identified by features comprising at least one of: (a) the C-terminal sequences flanking the neoantigen encoded peptide sequence within its source protein sequence; and (b) the N-terminal sequences flanking the neoantigen encoded peptide sequence within its source protein sequence.
26. The system of claim 22, wherein the neural network model includes a plurality of network models for the at least two different class I MHC alleles, each network model assigned to a corresponding class I MHC allele in the at least two different class I WIC alleles and including a series of nodes arranged in one or more layers.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the neural network model is trained by updating the parameters of the neural network model, and wherein the parameters of at least two network models are jointly updated for at least one training iteration.
28. The system of claim 22, wherein the method further comprises generating an output for constructing a personalized cancer vaccine from the set of selected neoantigens.
29. The method of claim 1, wherein two or more optimized parameters transform an input value for a node of the first layer into an input value of a node in the second layer.
30. The method of claim 1, wherein the neural network model exhibits a positive predictive value (PPV) that achieves 0.114 at 10% recall rate.
</claims>
</document>
