<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-08-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B6/00,G06K9/36,G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/40,G06T7/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FLOHR, THOMAS
SUEHLING, MICHAEL
REICHELT, STEFAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59713783
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method for analyzing image data from a patient after a minimally invasive intervention, analysis apparatus, computer program and electronically readable data storage medium
</title>

<abstract>
A method is disclosed for analyzing image data from a patient after a minimally invasive intervention on a lesion, in particular after a tumor ablation on a tumor, wherein a pre-intervention image dataset showing the lesion and an intra- and/or post-intervention, second image dataset showing the intervention region are analyzed. In at least one embodiment of the method, the method includes deriving attribute data describing attributes of the image data from the image datasets at least in part automatically, the attribute data being usable as input data to an artificial intelligence analysis algorithm trained using training data from other patients, and the training data being associated with a ground truth. The method further includes determining, from the attribute data, change information that describes the change in the lesion and/or in the intervention region as a result of the intervention.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, using image data from a patient after a minimally invasive surgical intervention on a lesion, the method comprising: deriving attribute data from a first image dataset and a second image dataset at least in part automatically, the attribute data describing attributes of the image data and being usable as input data to an artificial intelligence analysis algorithm, wherein the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm is trained using training data from other patients, the training data is associated with a ground truth and a corresponding ground truth image dataset, the first image dataset is a pre-intervention image dataset showing the lesion, and the second image dataset shows an intervention region at least one of intra-intervention or post-intervention; and determining, from the attribute data, change information describing a change in at least one of the lesion or the intervention region as a result of the minimally invasive surgical intervention.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm includes at least one of a neural network or a random forest algorithm.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of at least one of the attribute data or the attributes are defined by a training algorithm training the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the attribute data is selected from a set of candidate data describing candidate attributes.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein acquisition parameters are at least one of (i) usable as additional input data to the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm or (ii) usable in deriving the attribute data, the acquisition parameters are associated with at least one of the first image dataset or the second image dataset, and the acquisition parameters are usable for acquiring at least one of the first image dataset or the second image dataset.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein at least some of the image data includes multi-energy radiographic data containing associated energy-spectrum information.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the attribute data includes instrument information and at least one of identification information or position information relating to at least one of the lesion or anatomical structures surrounding the lesion, the instrument information relating to an instrument usable and visible in the image data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the attribute data includes attribute data describing shape and texture attributes of the image data.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one of patient information or diagnostic information is at least one of (i) usable as additional input data to the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm or (ii) usable in deriving the attribute data, and the at least one of the patient information or the diagnostic information relates to at least one of the patient or intervention information describing the minimally invasive surgical intervention.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein classification information allowing at least one of a temporal classification or spatial classification is assigned to each item of at least one of the attribute data or the input data.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating an analysis representation to be presented as an overlay on at least some of the image data, the analysis representation being generated from at least one of the change information or at least some of the attribute data, and outputting the analysis representation.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using, in response to a ground truth existing for the patient, image datasets from the patient and the ground truth as training data for further training of the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm.
13. An analysis apparatus configured to utilize image data from a patient after a minimally invasive surgical intervention on a lesion, the analysis apparatus comprising: at least one processor configured to execute computer-readable instructions to cause the analysis apparatus to derive attribute data from a first image dataset and a second image dataset at least in part automatically, the attribute data describing attributes of image data and being usable as input data to an artificial intelligence analysis algorithm, wherein the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm is trained using training data from other patients, the training data is associated with a ground truth and a corresponding ground truth image dataset, the first image dataset is a pre-intervention image dataset showing the lesion, and the second image dataset shows an intervention region at least one of intra-intervention or post-intervention, and determine, from the attribute data, change information describing a change in at least one of the lesion or the intervention region as a result of the minimally invasive surgical intervention.
14. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing program sections, readable and executable by a projection-determining system, to carry out the method of claim 1 when the program sections are executed by the projection-determining system.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the minimally invasive surgical intervention is tumor ablation on a tumor.
16. The method of claim 3, wherein the training algorithm is a deep-learning algorithm.
17. The method of claim 2, wherein at least some of at least one of the attribute data or the attributes are defined by a training algorithm.
18. The method of claim 2, wherein at least some of the attribute data is selected from a set of candidate data describing candidate attributes.
19. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using, in response to a ground truth existing for the patient, divergence information between image datasets from the patient and the ground truth as training data for further training of the artificial intelligence analysis algorithm.
20. The analysis apparatus of claim 13, wherein the at least one processor is configured to execute the computer-readable instructions to cause the analysis apparatus to generate an analysis representation to be presented as an overlay on at least some of the image data, the analysis representation being generated from at least one of the change information or at least some of the attribute data, and output the analysis representation.
</claims>
</document>
