<document>

<filing_date>
2017-04-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01K13/00,G01R19/00,G01R31/08,G01S17/08,G01S17/88,H02J13/00,H02J3/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LINDSEY MANUFACTURING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLISS, RYAN
LINDSEY, KEITH
MCCALL, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63917496
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for generating a transmission line reliability rating
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for determining a reliability line rating for a transmission line is disclosed. In response to a line clearance measurement and a line temperature measurement received from a transmission line monitor coupled to a transmission line, the system generates a temperature-clearance model for the transmission line based on the received line clearance measurement and line temperature measurement. The system generates a plurality of past dynamic line ratings and determines a scaling factor based on the plurality of past dynamic line ratings. The system then generates a dynamic line rating for an interval of time in the future and scales the dynamic line rating in response to the scaling factor to obtain a reliability line rating for the interval.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for determining a reliability line rating for a transmission line during a present interval, the system comprising: a line monitor on a transmission line, the line monitor comprising: a clearance sensor to determine a line clearance measurement; a line temperature sensor to determine a line temperature measurement; a line current sensor to determine a line electrical load; and a transmitter to transmit the line clearance measurement and the line temperature measurement to a reliability determination module disposed on a remote utility server, the reliability determination module configured to: in response to the line clearance measurement and the line temperature measurement, generate a temperature-clearance model for the transmission line based on the received line clearance measurement and line temperature measurement; generate a plurality of past dynamic line ratings based on a maximum line temperature for the transmission line, wherein the maximum line temperature is determined by comparing a minimum acceptable clearance for the transmission line to the temperature-clearance model; determine a scaling factor based on the plurality of past dynamic line ratings; generate a present dynamic line rating at a start of a present interval; and scale the present dynamic line rating in response to the scaling factor to obtain a reliability line rating for the present interval.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the clearance sensor is a LIDAR clearance sensor.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the line monitor further comprises one or more environmental condition sensors generating corresponding environmental condition measurements usable by the reliability determination module on the remote utility server to generate the dynamic line rating.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the reliability determination module is configured to determine a mean value of the plurality of past dynamic line ratings, determine a cutoff value of the plurality of past dynamic line ratings, the cutoff value being based on a confidence level, and determine the scaling factor by dividing the cutoff value by the mean value.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the reliability determination module is configured to multiply the present dynamic line rating by the scaling factor to obtain the reliability line rating for the present interval.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the reliability determination module is configured to determine a plurality of error level values based on the plurality of past dynamic line ratings, and determine the scaling factor based on the plurality of error level values.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising a display coupled to the reliability determination module, wherein: the reliability determination module is configured to cause the display to output a reliability line rating trace, a dynamic line rating trace, and an actual load trace on a graph having a time axis and a current axis, the reliability line rating trace includes values of the reliability line rating at corresponding times, the dynamic line rating trace includes values of the present dynamic line rating at corresponding times, and the actual load trace includes values of a current on the transmission line at corresponding times.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the reliability determination module is further configured to limit a level of current that may be applied to the transmission line during the present interval to the reliability line rating for the present interval.
9. A system for determining a reliability line rating during a future time window for a transmission line comprising: a line monitor on a transmission line, the line monitor comprising a clearance sensor to determine a line clearance measurement, a line temperature sensor to determine a line temperature measurement, and a line current sensor to determine a line electrical load; and a reliability determination module disposed on a remote utility server, the reliability determination module configured to: in response to the line clearance measurement and the line temperature measurement generate a temperature-clearance model for the transmission line based on the received line clearance measurement and line temperature measurement; generate a plurality of past dynamic line ratings; receive forecasted environmental variables corresponding to a future interval; generate a plurality of past forecasted dynamic line ratings corresponding to the future interval; generate a plurality of error level values for the future interval based on the plurality of past forecasted dynamic line ratings and the plurality of past dynamic line ratings; generate a current forecasted dynamic line rating for the future interval; determine a scaling factor based on the plurality of error level values; and scale the current forecasted dynamic line rating in response to the scaling factor to obtain a reliability rating for the future interval.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein: the future time window contains a plurality of future intervals, the reliability determination module is further configured to obtain a reliability line rating for each future interval of the plurality of future intervals, thereby obtaining a plurality of reliability line ratings, and the reliability determination module determines the lowest of the plurality of reliability line ratings to obtain the reliability line rating for the future window.
11. The system of claim 10, further comprising a display coupled to the reliability determination module, wherein: the reliability determination module is configured to cause the display to output a first reliability line rating trace and a dynamic line rating trace on a graph having a time axis and a current axis, the first reliability line rating trace includes the value of the reliability line rating for the future window at the times corresponding to the future window, and the dynamic line rating trace includes values of a dynamic line rating at corresponding times.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the reliability determination module is further configured to: determine a second reliability line rating during a second future window, the second future window being shorter than the future time window; and cause the display to further output a second reliability line rating trace on the graph, wherein the second reliability line rating trace includes the value of the second reliability line rating for the second future window at the times corresponding to the second future window.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the reliability determination module is configured to determine a mean value of the plurality of error level values; determine a cutoff value for the plurality of error level values, the cutoff value being based on a confidence level; and determine the scaling factor by dividing the cutoff value by the mean value.
14. A system for determining that a clearance obstruction has occurred in an environment of a transmission line, the system comprising: a line monitor on a transmission line comprising a clearance sensor to take line clearance measurements and a line temperature sensor to take line temperature measurements; and a reliability determination module disposed on a remote utility server, the reliability determination module configured to: generate a temperature-clearance model for the transmission line based on the received line clearance measurements and line temperature measurements; receive new line clearance measurements and line temperature measurements; update the temperature-clearance model based on the received new line clearance measurements and new line temperature measurements; monitor the temperature-clearance model for a change to the updated temperature-clearance model; and determine that a clearance obstruction has occurred in an environment of the transmission line based on the change to the updated temperature-clearance model.
15. The system of claim 14 wherein the reliability determination module monitors the temperature-clearance model for the change to the updated temperature-clearance model by monitoring a value of a Y-intercept of the temperature-clearance model.
16. The system of claim 14 wherein the reliability determination module monitors the temperature-clearance model for the change to the updated temperature-clearance model by monitoring the slope of the temperature-clearance model.
17. A system for determining a reliability line rating for a transmission line during an interval, the system comprising: a processor; a memory, wherein the memory has stored therein instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to: in response to a line clearance measurement and a line temperature measurement received from a transmission line monitor coupled to a transmission line, generate a temperature-clearance model for the transmission line based on the received line clearance measurement and line temperature measurement; generate a plurality of past dynamic line ratings based on a maximum line temperature for the transmission line, wherein the maximum line temperature is determined by comparing a minimum acceptable clearance for the transmission line to the temperature-clearance model; determine a scaling factor based on the plurality of past dynamic line ratings; generate a dynamic line rating for an interval; and scale the dynamic line rating in response to the scaling factor to obtain a reliability line rating for the interval.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the dynamic line rating is a present dynamic line rating.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: in response to a plurality of environmental condition measurements received from the transmission line monitor, generate the present dynamic line rating.
20. The system of claim 18, wherein the interval is a future interval and the dynamic line rating is a future dynamic line rating, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: in response to forecasted environmental variables for the future interval, generate a plurality of past forecasted dynamic line ratings corresponding to the future interval; generate a plurality of error level values for the future interval based on the plurality of past forecasted dynamic line ratings and the plurality of past dynamic line ratings; in response to forecasted environmental variables for the future interval, generate a present forecasted line rating for the future interval; and determine the scaling factor based on the plurality of error level values.
</claims>
</document>
