<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-27
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/0481,G06T11/20,G06T11/60,H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
EBTEKAR, ALI
GARRISON, DANIEL ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56798922
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced user interface systems including dynamic context selection for cloud-based networks
</title>

<abstract>
According to one embodiment, a network device associates each tile object of a plurality of tile objects with a tile set. Each tile object includes one or more parameters of a communication network, and each tile set linked to one or more context objects for a dashboard interface. The network device further determines a dynamic context for the communication network, and identifies at least one tile set linked to a context object of the one or more context objects that matches the dynamic context (the at least one tile set includes one or more associated tile objects). The network device also determines a respective display position (e.g., defined by the dashboard interface) to each tile object of the one or more associated tile objects, and provides the dashboard interface for display, with each tile object of the one or more associated tile objects displayed according to the respective display position.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, by a network device, a dynamic context for a communication network; identifying, by the network device, at least one tile set linked to one or more context objects based on the dynamic context, the at least one tile set including one or more associated tile objects; determining, by the network device, a respective display position within a dashboard interface for each of the one or more associated tile objects; assigning, by the network device, a priority or weight to each of the one or more context objects for the dashboard interface; identifying a hierarchy of the one or more context objects, the hierarchy associating each of the one or more context objects with at least one of an initial context object or a sub-context object relative to the initial context object; assigning one of the one or more context objects that matches the dynamic context as the initial context object; and providing, by the network device to a client device, the dashboard interface to a client device, the dashboard interface being configured to display each of the one or more associated tile objects according to the respective display position and display the initial context object and at least one option to pivot the dashboard interface according to the sub-context object relative to the initial context object.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: defining, by the network device, at least one context object of the one or more context objects for the dashboard interface as a pivot point context object, wherein the determining of the dynamic context includes matching the dynamic context to the at least one context object defined as the pivot point context object.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the dynamic context includes: receiving, by the network device, a user-selected context for the dashboard interface; and assigning, by the network device, the user-selected context for the dashboard interface as the dynamic context for the communication network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the dynamic context includes determining, by the network device, a current network event or a current network condition for the communication network.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the dynamic context includes: indexing, by the network device, each of the one or more context objects in a hierarchal model, the hierarchal model associating each of the one or more context objects with at least one of the initial context object or the sub -context object relative to the initial context object.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: instantiating, by the network device, a default context object as the dynamic context for the communication network based on prior user interaction with the dashboard interface.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the determining of the respective display position further comprises determining a respective display parameter to each of the one or more associated tile objects.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising: assigning a respective weight to each of the one or more associated tile objects based on at least one of a workflow, a bin-packing algorithm, or a semantic graph, wherein the determining of the respective display position includes determining the respective display position and the respective display parameter for each of the one or more associated tile objects based on the respective weight assigned to each of the one or more associated tile objects.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more context objects represent at least one of a customer, a location, a region, a communication network system, a bandwidth for the communication network, a router, server, a virtual machine, a network event, or a network condition.
10. A network device comprising: one or more network interfaces configured to communicate in a communication network; one or more processors coupled to the network interfaces and adapted to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store the one or more processes that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine a dynamic context for the communication network; identify at least one tile set linked to one or more context objects based on the dynamic context, the at least one tile set including one or more associated tile objects; determine a respective display position defined by a dashboard interface for each of the one or more associated tile objects; assign a priority or weight to each of the one or more context objects for the dashboard interface; identify a hierarchy of the one or more context objects, the hierarchy associating each of the one or more context objects with at least one of an initial context object or a sub-context object relative to the initial context object; assign one of the one or more context objects that matches the dynamic context as the initial context object; and provide the dashboard interface to a client device, the dashboard interface being configured to display each of the one or more associated tile objects according to the respective display position and display the initial context object and at least one option to pivot the dashboard interface according to the sub-context object relative to the initial context object.
11. The network device of claim 10, wherein the one or more processes, when executed by the one or more processors, further causes the one or more processors to define at least one context object of the one or more context objects for the dashboard interface as a pivot point context object, and determining the dynamic context for the communication network includes matching the dynamic context to the at least one context object defined as the pivot point context object.
12. The network device of claim 10, wherein determining the dynamic context for the communication network includes: receive a user-selected context for the dashboard interface; and assign the user-selected context for the dashboard interface as the dynamic context for the communication network.
13. The network device of claim 10, wherein determining the dynamic context for the communication network includes determining a current network event or current network condition for the communication network.
14. The network device of claim 10, wherein determining the dynamic context for the communication network includes: indexing each of the one or more context objects in a hierarchal model, the hierarchal model associating each of the one or more context objects with at least one of the initial context object or the sub-context object relative to the initial context object.
15. The network device of claim 10, wherein the one or more processes, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors to instantiate a default context object as the dynamic context for the communication network based on prior user interaction with the dashboard interface.
16. The network device of claim 10, wherein determining the respective display position includes assigning a respective display parameter for each of the one or more associated tile objects.
17. The network device of claim 16, wherein the one or more processes, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the one or more processors assign a respective weight to each of the one or more associated tile objects based on at least one of a workflow, a bin-packing algorithm, or a semantic graph, and determining the respective display position includes determining the respective display position and the respective display parameter for each of the one or more associated tile objects based on the respective weight assigned to each of the one or more associated tile objects.
18. A tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable media having instructions encoded thereon, the instructions, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: determine a dynamic context for a communication network; identify at least one tile set linked to one or more context objects based on the dynamic context, the at least one tile set including one or more associated tile objects; determine a respective display position defined by a dashboard interface for each of the one or more associated tile objects; assign a priority or weight to each of the one or more context objects for the dashboard interface; identify a hierarchy of the one or more context objects, the hierarchy associating each of the one or more context objects with at least one of an initial context object or a sub-context object relative to the initial context object; assign one of the one or more context objects that matches the dynamic context as the initial context object; and provide the dashboard interface to a client device, the dashboard interface being configured to display each of the one or more associated tile objects according to the respective display position and display the initial context object and at least one option to pivot the dashboard interface according to the sub-context object relative to the initial context object.
19. The tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 18, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: update, in response to detecting a change in one or more network conditions, one or more additional context objects associated with the change in the one or more network conditions; and update the dashboard interface based on the one or more additional context objects updated.
20. The tangible, non-transitory, computer-readable media of claim 18, wherein the instructions further cause the one or more processors to: receive a user-selected context for the dashboard interface; and assign the user-selected context for the dashboard interface as the dynamic context for the communication network.
</claims>
</document>
