<document>

<filing_date>
2020-03-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B10/00,H04L12/26,H04L12/715,H04L12/721,H04L12/723,H04Q11/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHOUDHURY, GAGAN
TSE, SIMON
MEIER-HELLSTERN, KATHLEEN
THAKUR, GAURAV
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69645610
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Traffic matrix prediction and fast reroute path computation in packet networks
</title>

<abstract>
A processing system including at least one processor may obtain traffic measurements for end-to-end paths in a telecommunication network, calculate traffic estimates for the end-to-end paths in future time periods based on the traffic measurements in accordance with at least one machine learning model, calculate traffic estimates for primary paths in the telecommunication network based upon the traffic estimates for the end-to-end paths, compute a backup path configuration for a primary path of the telecommunication network for the future time periods based upon the traffic estimates for the primary paths in the future time periods, detect a change in the backup path configuration for the primary path in a future time period based upon the computing, and adjust a backup path in accordance with the backup path configuration when the change in the backup path configuration is detected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: calculating in accordance with at least one machine learning model, by a processing system including at least one processor, traffic estimates for a plurality of end-to-end paths in at least one future time period using a plurality of traffic measurements for the plurality of end-to-end paths in a telecommunication network; calculating, by the processing system, at least one traffic estimate for a plurality of primary paths in the telecommunication network based upon the traffic estimates for the plurality of end-to-end paths; computing, by the processing system, at least one backup path configuration for at least one primary path of the telecommunication network for the at least one future time period based upon the at least one traffic estimate for the plurality of primary paths in the at least one future time period; detecting, by the processing system, a change in the at least one backup path configuration for the at least one primary path in a future time period of the at least one future time period based upon the computing; and adjusting, by the processing system, at least one backup path in accordance with the at least one backup path configuration when the change in the at least one backup path configuration is detected.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting is performed at a designated time in advance of the future time period.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of primary paths comprises: a link between adjacent nodes in the telecommunication network; or a node, and two links connected to the node in the telecommunication network.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of end-to-end paths comprises a multiprotocol label switching tunnel.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the calculating the traffic estimates for the plurality of end-to-end paths further comprises: computing an end-to-end path traffic matrix having rows and columns corresponding to nodes in the telecommunication network, wherein each entry of a plurality of entries in the end-to-end path traffic matrix represents a traffic estimate for one of the plurality of end-to-end paths comprising a path between two of the nodes in the telecommunication network.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the calculating the at least one traffic estimate for the plurality of primary paths further comprises: computing a primary path traffic vector having rows and columns corresponding to a subset of the nodes in the telecommunication network, wherein each entry of a plurality of entries in the primary path traffic vector represents a traffic estimate for one of the plurality of primary paths in the telecommunication network.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the primary path traffic vector is computed from the end-to-end path traffic matrix in accordance with a routing engine mapping of the plurality of end-to-end paths in the telecommunication network, wherein the at least one backup path configuration is computed based upon the primary path traffic vector comprising the at least one traffic estimate for the plurality of primary paths at the future time period.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one machine learning model comprises a plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models, wherein the traffic estimates for the plurality of end-to-end paths are calculated in accordance with the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models comprises Gaussian process regression models.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein at least a portion of the plurality of traffic measurements is used as training data to train the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models is associated with a respective one of the plurality of end-to-end paths, and wherein each of the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models is separately trained from at least a portion of the plurality of traffic measurements that is obtained for the respective one of the plurality of end-to-end paths.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein each of the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models generates a traffic estimate for one of the plurality of end-to-end paths for the future time period in accordance with a function of traffic measurements of the plurality of traffic measurements from the one of the plurality of end-to-end paths from a plurality of previous time periods.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein each of the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models generates the traffic estimate for the one of the plurality of end-to-end paths for the future time period in further accordance with a linear trend factor.
14. The method of claim 12, wherein for each of the plurality of nonlinear autoregressive models, a previous time period of the plurality of previous time periods is selected for inclusion in the plurality of previous time periods when a partial autocorrelation associated with the previous time period exceeds a threshold.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the threshold is dependent upon a time lag between a reference time period and the previous time period, wherein the threshold is increased for a longer time lag and is decreased for a shorter time lag, wherein the reference time period comprises a most recent time period for which the plurality of traffic measurements is obtained.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the adjusting the at least one backup path comprises: providing an additional capacity to an existing set of resources for the at least one backup path; or changing the existing set of resources for the at least one backup path to a different set of resources.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein the changing the existing set of resources for the at least one backup path to the different set of resources comprises: assigning the at least one backup path to at least one different link or at least one different node of the telecommunication network that is not in the existing set of resources.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein the changing the existing set of resources for the at least one backup path to the different set of resources further comprises: activating the at least one different link in the telecommunication network via at least one of: at least one reconfigurable optical add-drop multiplexer; or at least one fiber cross-connect.
19. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by a processing system including at least one processor, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: calculating in accordance with at least one machine learning model, traffic estimates for a plurality of end-to-end paths in at least one future time period using a plurality of traffic measurements for the plurality of end-to-end paths in a telecommunication network; calculating at least one traffic estimate for a plurality of primary paths in the telecommunication network based upon the traffic estimates for the plurality of end-to-end paths; computing at least one backup path configuration for at least one primary path of the telecommunication network for the at least one future time period based upon the at least one traffic estimate for the plurality of primary paths in the at least one future time period; detecting a change in the at least one backup path configuration for the at least one primary path in a future time period of the at least one future time period based upon the computing; and adjusting at least one backup path in accordance with the at least one backup path configuration when the change in the at least one backup path configuration is detected.
20. An apparatus comprising: a processing system including at least one processor; and a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions which, when executed by the processing system, cause the processing system to perform operations, the operations comprising: calculating in accordance with at least one machine learning model, traffic estimates for a plurality of end-to-end paths in at least one future time period using a plurality of traffic measurements for the plurality of end-to-end paths in a telecommunication network; calculating at least one traffic estimate for a plurality of primary paths in the telecommunication network based upon the traffic estimates for the plurality of end-to-end paths; computing at least one backup path configuration for at least one primary path of the telecommunication network for the at least one future time period based upon the at least one traffic estimate for the plurality of primary paths in the at least one future time period; detecting a change in the at least one backup path configuration for the at least one primary path in a future time period of the at least one future time period based upon the computing; and adjusting at least one backup path in accordance with the at least one backup path configuration when the change in the at least one backup path configuration is detected.
</claims>
</document>
