<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R19/04,G06F11/07,G06F11/30,G06F21/56,G09C1/00,H04L9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
POWER FINGERPRINTING
</assignee>

<inventors>
REED, JEFFREY, H.
AGUAYO GONZALEZ, CARLOS R.
CHEN, STEVEN C.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60910697
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and apparatuses for characteristic management with side-channel signature analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Some embodiments described herein include an apparatus having a processor communicatively coupled to a memory. The processor is configured to monitor, at a characteristic controller, a first characteristic of an electronic device. The processor is then configured to receive side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device from a signature analyzer. The processor is configured to determine if the first characteristic of the electronic device has changed or will change in a predefined period of time based on the side-channel signature analysis. The processor is then configured to adjust a second characteristic of the electronic device and/or filtering characteristics such that the side-channel signature analysis reflects predefined side-channel behavior.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An apparatus; comprising: a memory; and a processor communicatively coupled to the memory, the processor configured to monitor a first characteristic of an electronic device, the processor configured to perform side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device, the processor configured to determine if the first characteristic of the electronic device has changed or will change in a predefined period of time based on the side-channel signature analysis, the processor configured to adjust a second characteristic of the electronic device in response to determining that the first characteristic has changed or will change in the predefined period of time such that the side-channel signature analysis corresponds to predefined side-channel behavior, the second characteristic being different from the first characteristic.
2. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to monitor the first characteristic of the electronic device that is physically collocated with the apparatus.
3. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to monitor the first characteristic of the electronic device that is physically remote from the apparatus.
4. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the processor is configured to perform the side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information, the processor is configured to adjust the second characteristic of the electronic device to improve detection of the anomalous feature of the side-channel information.
5. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the processor is configured to perform the side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information, the processor is configured to send a signal to cause the electronic device to activate a set of instructions to improve detection of the anomalous feature of the side-channel information.
6. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the processor is configured to perform the side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information based on a copy of reference side-channel information.
7. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the processor is configured to perform the side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information based on a first copy of reference side-channel information stored at in the memory and a second copy of reference side-channel information at a location remote from the apparatus, the processor is configured to identify unauthorized modification to the apparatus when the side-channel signature analysis for the first copy of reference side-channel information differs from the side-channel signature analysis for the second copy of reference side-channel information.
8. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to send a control signal to a power management system of the electronic device to modify a power output from the power management system to another portion of the electronic device and to cause a change in the first characteristic of the electronic device.
9. The apparatus of claim 1, wherein: the processor is configured to perform the side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device during a first time, the processor is configured to send a first control signal to a power management system of the electronic device to modify a first characteristic level output from the power management system to another portion of the electronic device and to cause a change in the first characteristic of the electronic device, the processor is configured to determine if the first characteristic level output from the power management system is outside of a predefined range, the processor configured to send a second control signal to the power management system in response to the first characteristic level being determined to be outside of the predefined range to adjust a second characteristic level output from the power management system to be with the predefined range during a second time in which the processor performs a side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device during the second time.
10. A non-transitory medium storing code representing a plurality of processor-executable instructions, the code comprising code to cause a processor to: monitor a first characteristic of an electronic device; adjust a second characteristic of the electronic device in response to a determination that the first characteristic has changed or will change in the predefined period of time, the second characteristic being different from the first characteristic; perform side-channel signature analysis of a second characteristic of the electronic device representing side-channel information of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information based on a first copy of reference side-channel information stored locally with an apparatus having the processor and a second copy of reference side-channel information stored remotely from the apparatus; and identify unauthorized modification to the apparatus in response to the side-channel signature analysis for the first copy of reference side-channel information differing from the side-channel signature analysis for the second copy of reference side-channel information.
11. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: adjust the second characteristic of the electronic device to improve detection of the anomalous feature of the side-channel information.
12. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: send a signal to cause the electronic device to activate a set of instructions to improve detection of the anomalous feature of the side-channel information.
13. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: receive an update to the first copy of reference side-channel information based on crowd-source updates to the reference side-channel of information for a plurality of electronic devices having a type corresponding to a type of the electronic device.
14. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: receive an update to the first copy of reference side-channel information based on crowd-source updates to the reference side-channel of information for a plurality of electronic devices having a type corresponding to a type of the electronic device, the update to the first copy of reference side-channel information corresponding to an update to the second copy of the reference side-channel information.
15. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: send a control signal to a power management system of the electronic device to modify a power output from the power management system to another portion of the electronic device and to cause a change in the first characteristic of the electronic device.
16. The non-transitory medium of claim 10, wherein the code to perform the side-channel signature analysis includes code to perform the side-channel analysis during a first time, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: send a first control signal to a power management system of the electronic device to modify a first characteristic level output from the power management system to another portion of the electronic device and to cause a change in the first characteristic of the electronic device; determine if the first characteristic level output from the power management system is outside of a predefined range; and send a second control signal to the power management system in response to the first characteristic level being determined to be outside of the predefined range to adjust a second characteristic level output from the power management system to be with the predefined range during a second time in which the processor performs a side-channel signature analysis of the electronic device during the second time.
17. A non-transitory medium storing code representing a plurality of processor-executable instructions, the code comprising code to cause a processor to: receive an update to a first copy of reference side-channel information to produce an updated first copy of the reference side-channel information based on crowd-sourced updates to the reference side-channel of information for a plurality of electronic devices having a type and corresponding to a type of an electronic device; store the updated first copy of the reference side-channel information at an apparatus having the processor; perform side-channel signature analysis of side-channel information of the electronic device to detect an anomalous feature of the side-channel information based on the updated first copy of reference side-channel information and a second copy of reference side-channel information stored remotely from the apparatus, the updated first copy of reference side-channel information corresponding to an update to the second copy of the reference side-channel information; and identify unauthorized modification to the apparatus or the electronic device in response to the side-channel signature analysis for the updated first copy of reference side-channel information differing from the side-channel signature analysis for the second copy of reference side-channel information.
18. The non-transitory medium of claim 17, the code further comprising code to cause the processor to: monitor a first characteristic of the electronic device; and adjust a second characteristic of the electronic device in response to a determination that the first characteristic has changed or will change in the predefined period of time, the second characteristic being different from the first characteristic, the code to perform includes code to perform side-channel signature analysis of the second characteristic of the electronic device representing side-channel information of the electronic device to detect the anomalous feature of the side-channel information.
19. The non-transitory medium of claim 17, wherein the crowd-sourced updates to the reference side-channel of information are for the plurality of electronic devices having at least one of executed code, a model number, a date of manufacture, a temperature or a distributor and corresponding to the at least of the executed code, the model number, the date of manufacture, the temperature or the distributor of the electronic device.
20. The non-transitory medium of claim 17, wherein the code to receive includes code to receive the update to the first copy of the reference side-channel information from a database that stores the crowd-sourced updates.
</claims>
</document>
