<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/00,H04W4/029,H04W4/46
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FORD GLOBAL TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
AGARWAL, SIDDHARTH
VORA, ANKIT GIRISH
Krishnan, Krishanth
LEE, SANGJIN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425803
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Vehicle location identification
</title>

<abstract>
A computer includes a processor and a memory. The memory stores instructions executable by the processor to receive in a host vehicle, from a target vehicle via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, a target vehicle first location in a global coordinate system, determine a target vehicle second location in a local coordinate system that has an origin at the host vehicle, and identify a host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based solely on (i) local coordinate system data determined in the host vehicle, including the target vehicle second location and (ii) data in the vehicle-to-vehicle communications, including the target vehicle first location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising a computer including a processor and a memory, the memory storing instructions executable by the processor to: receive in a host vehicle, from a target vehicle via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, a target vehicle first location in a global coordinate system, the target vehicle first location including a target latitude and a target longitude; actuate a sensor to determine a distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle in a local coordinate system that has an origin at the host vehicle; determine, based on the distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle, a target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system; and identify a host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based solely on a sum of (i) a lateral component of the target vehicle second location and the target longitude and (ii) a longitudinal component of the target vehicle second location and the target latitude.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to identify the location of the host vehicle based on a resolution error of the target vehicle first location.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to receive sensor data from the target vehicle and to deactivate one or more sensors in the host vehicle that collect a same type of sensor data as the received sensor data.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to receive a second target vehicle first location in the global coordinate system via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, to determine a second target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system, and to identify the host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based on the second target vehicle first location and the second target vehicle second location.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to input images of the target vehicle into a machine learning program to identify the location of the target vehicle in the local coordinate system.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to receive respective locations of each of a plurality of vehicles in the global coordinate system via vehicle-to-vehicle communications and to determine the location of the host vehicle in the global coordinate system based on the received locations.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions further include instructions to determine the location of the host vehicle in the global coordinate system based on locations of a plurality of vehicles in the local coordinate system.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the target vehicle is a lead vehicle in a platoon, and the host vehicle is in the platoon.
9. A method, comprising: receiving in a host vehicle, from a target vehicle via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, a target vehicle first location in a global coordinate system, the target vehicle first location including a target latitude and a target longitude; actuating a sensor to determine a distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle in a local coordinate system that has an origin at the host vehicle; determining, based on the distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle, a target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system; and identifying a host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based solely on a sum of (i) a lateral component of the target vehicle second location and the target longitude and (ii) a longitudinal component of the target vehicle second location and the target latitude.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising identifying the location of the host vehicle based on a resolution error of the location of the target vehicle in the global coordinate system.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving sensor data from the target vehicle and deactivating one or more sensors in the host vehicle that collect a same type of sensor data as the received sensor data.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving a second target vehicle first location in the global coordinate system via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, determining a second target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system, and identifying the host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based on the second target vehicle first location and the second target vehicle second location.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising inputting images of the target vehicle into a machine learning program to identify the location of the target vehicle in the local coordinate system.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising receiving respective locations of each of a plurality of vehicles in the global coordinate system via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications and determining the location of the host vehicle in the global coordinate system based on the received locations.
15. The method of claim 9, further comprising determining the location of the host vehicle in the global coordinate system based on locations of a plurality of vehicles in the local coordinate system.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the target vehicle is a lead vehicle in a platoon, and the host vehicle is in the platoon.
17. A system, comprising: a vehicle sensor; means for receiving in a host vehicle, from a target vehicle via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, a target vehicle first location in a global coordinate system, the target vehicle first location including a target latitude and a target longitude; means for actuating the vehicle sensor to determine a distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle in a local coordinate system that has an origin at the host vehicle; means for determining, based on the distance between the host vehicle and the target vehicle, a target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system; and means for identifying a host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based solely on a sum of (i) a lateral component of the target vehicle second location and the target longitude and (ii) a longitudinal component of the target vehicle second location and the target latitude.
18. The system of claim 17, further comprising means for receiving sensor data from the target vehicle and deactivating one or more sensors in the host vehicle that collect a same type of sensor data as the received sensor data.
19. The system of claim 17, further comprising means for receiving a second target vehicle first location in the global coordinate system via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications, determining a second target vehicle second location in the local coordinate system, and identifying the host vehicle location in the global coordinate system based on the second target vehicle first location and the second target vehicle second location.
20. The system of claim 17, further comprising means for receiving respective locations of each of a plurality of vehicles in the global coordinate system via wireless vehicle-to-vehicle communications and determining the location of the host vehicle in the global coordinate system based on the received locations.
</claims>
</document>
