<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S13/02,G01S13/34,G01S13/44,G01S13/88,G01S7/02,G01S7/04,G01S7/35,H01Q1/22,H01Q1/24,H01Q1/38,H01Q1/40,H01Q21/06,H01Q9/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
TROTTA, SAVERIO
BAHETI, ASHUTOSH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63720563
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Radio frequency systems integrated with displays and methods of formation thereof
</title>

<abstract>
A radio frequency (RF) system includes a flexible substrate that includes a first portion and a second portion. The first portion overlaps a first surface of a substrate. The first surface is on a first side of the RF system. The second portion overlaps a second surface of the substrate. The second surface is on a second side of the RF system. The RF system further includes an antenna disposed over the first portion of the flexible substrate. The antenna is configured to transmit/receive RF signals on the first side of the RF system. The RF system also includes a transmission line disposed on a bent region of the flexible substrate between the first portion and the second portion. The transmission line is configured to propagate the RF signals between the first portion and the second portion on the second side of the RF system.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A radio frequency (RF) system, comprising: a flexible substrate comprising a first portion overlapping a first surface of a substrate, the first surface being on a first side of the RF system, and a second portion overlapping a second surface of the substrate, the second surface being on a second side of the RF system; an antenna disposed over the first portion of the flexible substrate, the antenna being configured to transmit/receive RF signals on the first side of the RF system; a transmission line disposed on a bent region of the flexible substrate between the first portion and the second portion, the transmission line being configured to propagate the RF signals between the first portion and the second portion on the second side of the RF system; and a transparent substrate disposed over the first surface of the substrate, wherein the antenna is disposed between the transparent substrate and the substrate, and the antenna is further configured to transmit/receive the RF signals through the transparent substrate.
2. The RF system of claim 1, wherein the substrate is opaque to the RF signals and is configured to transmit visible light at the first surface of the substrate.
3. The RF system of claim 1, wherein the first surface is opposite of the second surface.
4. The RF system of claim 1, wherein the first surface is at a substantially 90° angle relative to the second surface.
5. The RF system of claim 1, further comprising: a printed circuit board disposed over the second surface of the substrate.
6. The RF system of claim 1, further comprising: an integrated circuit (IC) chip attached to the second portion of the flexible substrate and operatively coupled to the antenna using the transmission line, the IC chip comprising RF circuitry configured to process the RF signals on the second side of the RF system.
7. A method of fabricating a radio frequency (RF) system, the method comprising: forming an antenna overlapping a first portion of a flexible substrate; forming a transmission line on a middle region of the flexible substrate between the first portion and a second portion of the flexible substrate; attaching the first portion to a first surface of a substrate; bending the middle region of the flexible substrate to form a bent region of the flexible substrate; attaching the second portion to a second surface of the substrate, wherein the antenna is configured to transmit/receive RF signals at the first surface, and the transmission line is configured to propagate the RF signals between the first portion and the second portion at the second surface of the substrate; and attaching a transparent substrate over the first surface of the substrate, wherein forming an antenna comprises forming the antenna on the first portion of the flexible substrate between the transparent substrate and the substrate, and the antenna is further configured to transmit/receive the RF signals through the transparent substrate.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the substrate is opaque to the RF signals and is configured to transmit visible light at the first surface of the substrate.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the first surface is opposite of the second surface.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein the first surface is at a substantially 90° angle relative to the second surface.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising attaching a printed circuit board over the second surface of the substrate.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising attaching an integrated circuit (IC) chip comprising RF circuitry to the second portion, the IC chip being operatively coupled to the antenna using the transmission line, wherein the RF circuitry is configured to process the RF signals at the second surface.
13. A radio frequency (RF) device, comprising: an opaque substrate comprising a first surface and a second surface; a first substrate disposed over the first surface; a transparent substrate disposed over the first substrate; a first antenna integrated with the transparent substrate, the first antenna being configured to transmit/receive RF signals; an integrated circuit (IC) chip comprising RF circuitry configured to process the RF signals, wherein the IC chip is operatively coupled to the first antenna through an integrated region within the transparent substrate; a second substrate disposed over the second surface, the second substrate comprising electronic circuitry; and a flexible connector attached to the first substrate and the second substrate, the flexible connector being operatively coupled to the IC chip and to the electronic circuitry, wherein the first antenna communicates with the electronic circuitry through the IC chip using the flexible connector.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the IC chip is integrated into the transparent substrate within the integrated region.
15. The device of claim 13, further comprising a shaped transparent region disposed over the first antenna, the shaped transparent region being configured as an RF lens for the RF signals.
16. The device of claim 13, further comprising a second antenna disposed at a bottom surface of the transparent substrate, wherein the first antenna is a parasitic antenna integrated at a top surface of the transparent substrate, and the second antenna is operatively coupled to the IC chip and electromagnetically coupled to the first antenna through the transparent substrate.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein the first antenna is configured for cellular communication.
18. The device of claim 13, wherein the first antenna is configured as a radar antenna.
19. A radio frequency (RF) system, comprising: a flexible substrate comprising a first portion overlapping a first surface of a substrate, the first surface being on a first side of the RF system, and a second portion overlapping a second surface of the substrate, the second surface being on a second side of the RF system; an antenna disposed over the first portion of the flexible substrate, the antenna being configured to transmit/receive RF signals on the first side of the RF system; a transmission line disposed on a bent region of the flexible substrate between the first portion and the second portion, the transmission line being configured to propagate the RF signals between the first portion and the second portion on the second side of the RF system; and a transparent substrate disposed over the first surface of the substrate, wherein the transmission line overlaps with a bottom surface of the transparent substrate, and the antenna is electromagnetically coupled to the transmission line through the transparent substrate.
20. The RF system of claim 19, wherein the substrate is opaque to the RF signals and is configured to transmit visible light at the first surface of the substrate.
21. A method of fabricating a radio frequency (RF) system, the method comprising: forming an antenna overlapping a first portion of a flexible substrate; forming a transmission line on a middle region of the flexible substrate between the first portion and a second portion of the flexible substrate; attaching the first portion to a first surface of a substrate; bending the middle region of the flexible substrate to form a bent region of the flexible substrate; attaching the second portion to a second surface of the substrate, wherein the antenna is configured to transmit/receive RF signals at the first surface, and the transmission line is configured to propagate the RF signals between the first portion and the second portion at the second surface of the substrate; and attaching a transparent substrate over the first surface of the substrate, wherein forming an antenna comprises forming the antenna on a top surface of the transparent substrate, the transmission line overlaps with a bottom surface of the transparent substrate, the bottom surface being opposite of the top surface, and the antenna is electromagnetically coupled to the transmission line through the transparent substrate.
22. The method of claim 21, wherein the substrate is opaque to the RF signals and is configured to transmit visible light at the first surface of the substrate.
</claims>
</document>
