<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-05-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/66,G06N3/08,G06T7/00,G06T7/10
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GE PRECISION HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAKSHMIPATHY, SANDEEP
SINGH, VIGNESH
DHOLAKIA, JIGNESH
MANICKAM, KAVITHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68692761
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for labeling whole spine image using deep neural network
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system for automatically labeling a spine image is disclosed. The method includes receiving an input spine image and analyzing image features of the input spine image by a deep neural network. The method further includes generating a mask image corresponding to the input spine image by the deep neural network based on image characteristics of a training image dataset. A region of interest in the mask image comprises vertebral candidates of the spine. The training image dataset comprises a plurality of spine images and a plurality of corresponding mask images. The method further includes associating labels with a plurality of image components of the mask image and labeling the input spine image based on labels associated with the mask image.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for automatically labeling a spine image, the method comprising: receiving an input spine image; analyzing, by a deep neural network, image features of the input spine image; generating, by the deep neural network, a mask image corresponding to the input spine image based on image characteristics of a training image dataset by adjusting pixel values of non-spinal material in the input spine image while maintaining pixel values of spinal material in the input spine image to display the spinal material and obscure the non-spinal material in the input spine image, wherein a region of interest in the mask image comprises vertebral candidates of the spine, wherein the training image dataset comprises a plurality of spine images and a plurality of corresponding mask images; associating labels with a plurality of image components of the mask image corresponding to the input spine image; and labeling the input spine image based on the labels associated with the mask image.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the input spine image is of a whole spine anatomy.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing the training image dataset to the deep neural network; training the deep neural network on weights assigned to the image characteristics by correlating the image characteristics of each spine image in the training image dataset with a corresponding mask image in the training image dataset; and learning, by the deep neural network, a relationship between the spine image and the corresponding mask image in the training image dataset based on the training.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: segmenting the mask image corresponding to the input spine image into the plurality of image components; and identifying each image component of the plurality of image components to be labeled.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising determining connections between image components of the plurality of image components.
6. The method of claim 4, wherein segmenting the mask image comprises: analyzing at least one feature parameter of each image component of the plurality of image components; and extracting each image component individually from the mask image.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising determining a position of each image component of the plurality of image components for labeling each image component.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein each mask image of the plurality of mask images in the training image dataset is a labeled mask image comprising a plurality of image components.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein each image component of the plurality of image components of the labeled mask image is assigned a component label based on image characteristics of the image component, the method further comprising: training the deep neural network on position of each image component based on the component label and position information of each image component.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: determining a position of each image component of the mask image corresponding to the input spine image, wherein associating labels with the plurality of components comprises associating a label for each image component of the mask image based on the component label assigned to each image component of the labeled mask image.
11. A method of training a deep neural network, the method comprising: providing a training image dataset to the deep neural network, the training image dataset comprising a plurality of spine images and a plurality of corresponding mask images, wherein each spine image of the plurality of spine images is of a whole spine anatomy, and wherein each mask image of the plurality of mask images is generated by adjusting pixel values of non-spinal material in an input spine image while maintaining pixel values of spinal material in the input spine image to display the spinal material and obscure the non-spinal material in the input spine image; training the deep neural network on weights assigned to the image characteristics by correlating the image characteristics of each spine image in the training image dataset with a corresponding mask image in the training image dataset, wherein a region of interest in the mask image comprises vertebral candidates of a spine; and learning, by the deep neural network, a relationship between the spine image and the corresponding mask image in the training image dataset based on the training.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein each mask image of the plurality of mask images is a labeled mask image comprising a plurality of image components, the method further comprising: assigning a component label to each image component of the plurality of image components based on image characteristics of the image component; and learning a position of each image component based on the component label and position information of each image component.
13. A system for automatically labeling a spine image, the system comprising: a deep neural network framework configured to: analyze image features of an input spine image; generate a mask image corresponding to the input spine image based on image characteristics of a training image dataset by adjusting pixel values of non-spinal material in the input spine image while maintaining pixel values of spinal material in the input spine image to display the spinal material and obscure the non-spinal material in the input spine image, wherein a region of interest in the mask image comprises vertebral candidates of the spine, wherein the training image dataset comprises a plurality of spine images and a plurality of corresponding mask images; and associate labels with a plurality of image components of the mask image corresponding to the input spine image; and label the input spine image based on the labels associated with the mask image.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the deep neural network framework is further configured to: receive the training image dataset; train on weights assigned to the image characteristics by correlating the image characteristics of each spine image in the training image dataset with a corresponding mask image in the training image dataset; and learn a relationship between the spine image and the corresponding mask image in the training image dataset based on the training.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the deep neural network framework is further configured to: segment the mask image corresponding to the input spine image into a plurality of image components; and identify the plurality of image components to be labeled.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the deep neural network framework is further configured to determine connection between image components of the plurality of image components.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the deep neural network framework is further configured to: analyze at least one feature parameter of each image component of the plurality of image components; extract each image component individually from the mask image; and determine a position of each image component of the plurality of image components for labelling each image component.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein each mask image of the plurality of mask images is a labeled mask image comprising a plurality of image components, wherein each image component is assigned a component label based on image characteristics of the image component, the deep neural network framework is further configured to: train on position of each image component based on the component label and position information of each image component.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the deep neural network framework is further configured to: determine a position of each image component of the mask image generated from the input spine image by the deep neural network; and associate a label for each image component of the mask image based on the component label assigned to each image component of the labeled mask image.
</claims>
</document>
