<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/0402,A61B5/046,A61B5/0468,A61B5/0472
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KINPO ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHIEN JEN-CHIEN
LIN, CHIEN-HUNG
HARAIKAWA, KOICHI
HUNG, TSUI-SHAN
LIN, YIN-TSONG
Kuo, Chia-Chun
Hsieh, Yi-Ta
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67140285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computation apparatus, cardiac arrhythmia assessment method thereof and non-transitory computer-readable recording medium
</title>

<abstract>
A computation apparatus, a cardiac arrhythmia assessment method thereof and a non-transitory computer-readable recording medium are provided. In the method, electrocardiography (ECG) signal is obtained. Whether the ECG signal is conformed to a first abnormal rhythm symptom is determined. Then, whether the ECG signal is conformed to a second abnormal rhythm symptom different from the first abnormal rhythm symptom is determined based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom. Accordingly, multiple abnormal rhythm assessments are integrated, the subsequent assessment is speeded-up and optimized according to the determined result of a previous assessment, so as to enable to implement on a handheld apparatus.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A cardiac arrhythmia assessment method, comprising: obtaining an electrocardiography (ECG) signal; determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a first abnormal rhythm symptom; and determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is different from the second abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the step of determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to the second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, comprises: if the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed, the feature of the ECG signal is modified and used for deten lining the second abnormal rhythm symptom.
2. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 1, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is a ventricular premature contraction (VPC), and the step of modifying the feature of the ECG signal comprises: modifying an R-wave position in the ECG signal used for determining the second abnormal rhythm symptom, and accordingly adjust an R-R interval.
3. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 1, wherein the step of determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to the second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, comprises: if the determined results of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom are both abnormal heart rhythm, it is determined that only one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed, and modifying the determined result of another is not conformed.
4. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 3, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is an atrial fibrillation (AF), and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is an atrial premature contraction (APC), and the step of determining that only one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed and modifying the determined result of the other is not conformed, comprises: determining only conforming to the AF and not conforming to the APC.
5. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 3, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is a VPC, and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is an APC, and the step of determining that only one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed and modifying the determined result of the other is not conformed, comprises: determining only conforming to the VPC and not conforming to the APC.
6. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 3, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is an AF, and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is a ventricular fibrillation (VF), and the step of determining that only one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed and modifying the determined result of the other is not conformed, comprises: determining only conforming to the VF and not conforming to the AF.
7. The cardiac arrhythmia assessment method according to claim 1, wherein after determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to the second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, further comprises: determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a third abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of at least one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the third abnormal rhythm symptom is different from the second abnormal rhythm symptom.
8. A computation apparatus, comprising: a transmission interface, obtaining an ECG signal; and a processor, coupled to the transmission interface, determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to the first abnormal rhythm symptom, and determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is different from the second abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein if the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed, the processor modifies the feature of the ECG signal, and is used in the determining of the second abnormal rhythm symptom.
9. The computation apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is a VPC, and the processor modifies an R-wave position in the ECG signal used for determining the second abnormal rhythm symptom, and accordingly adjusts an R-R interval.
10. The computation apparatus according to claim 8, wherein if the determined results of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom are both abnormal heart rhythms, the processor determines that only one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is conformed, and modifying the determined result of the other is not conformed.
11. The computation apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is an AF, and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is an APC, and the processor determines that only the AF is conformed and the APC is not conformed.
12. The computation apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is a VPC, and the second abnormal rhythm symptom is an APC, and the processor determines that only the VPC is conformed and the APC is not conformed.
13. The computation apparatus according to claim 10, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is an AF, and the abnormal rhythm symptom is a VF, and the processor determines that only the VF is conformed and the AF is not conformed.
14. The computation apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the processor determines that the ECG signal is conformed to a third abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result in at least one of the first abnormal rhythm symptom and the second abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the third abnormal rhythm symptom is different from the second abnormal rhythm symptom.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable recording medium, recording a program code which is loaded by a processor of a computation apparatus to perform the following steps: obtaining an ECG signal; determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a first abnormal rhythm symptom; and determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to a second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the first abnormal rhythm symptom is different from the second abnormal rhythm symptom, wherein the step of determining whether the ECG signal is conformed to the second abnormal rhythm symptom based on the determined result of the first abnormal rhythm symptom, comprises: if the determined result of the first abnormal rhytlun symptom is conformed, the feature of the ECG signal is modified and used for determining the second abnormal rhythm symptom.
</claims>
</document>
