<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06Q20/10,G06Q20/34,G06Q20/36,G06Q30/00,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
EDWARDS, JOSHUA S.
MOSSOBA, MICHAEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67394219
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for secure management of a universal shopping cart
</title>

<abstract>
The disclosed embodiments provide systems, methods, and techniques for managing transaction cards. User registration processes, order processes, and failure detection processes for a secure universal shopping cart are provided. Systems and methods may acquire identifiers. Systems and methods may also identify items associated with the identifiers. In addition, systems and methods may acquire a list of merchants that offer each item. Systems and methods may further determine, for each identifier, merchants based on user preferences. Even further, systems and methods may generate a payment token for each item. Systems and methods may then transmit the payment token for each item to its respective merchant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for purchasing items using a universal shopping cart, the system comprising: one or more memory devices storing instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute instructions to: acquire, via a communication network, a first item identifier from a first user device of a first user, the first user being a primary user; acquire, via the communication network, a second item identifier from a second user device of a second user, the second user being associated with the first user and being a secondary user; identify a first item associated with the first item identifier and a second item associated with the second item identifier; acquire, via the communication network, a first plurality of merchants and a second plurality of merchants, wherein each of the first plurality of merchants offers the first item for sale, and wherein each of the second plurality of merchants offers the second item for sale; identify a first user preference associated with the first user and a second user preference associated with the second user determine an aggregated user preference based on the first user preference, the second user preference, and a commonality score, wherein the commonality score represents a relationship between the first user and the second user; determine a first merchant from the first plurality of merchants and a second merchant from the first second plurality of merchants based on the aggregated user preference; provide an option to order the first item from the first merchant and the second option item from the second merchant to the first and second user devices; receive an indication of an order; and determine, based on the indication of the order, whether to generate a first payment token and a second payment token, the first payment token generated for transmission to the first merchant to purchase the first item from the first merchant and the second payment token generated for transmission to the second merchant to purchase the second item from the second merchant.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of the order indicates acceptance by the first user of the option to purchase the first item from the first merchant and the second item from the second merchant; and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: generate the first payment token to purchase the first item from the first merchant and the second payment token to purchase the second item from the second merchant; and transmit, via the communication network, the first payment token to the first merchant and the second payment token to the second merchant.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein instructions to transmit the first payment token are further based on instructions to: scrape an electronic document associated with the first token; identify an electronic transaction form in the electronic document; parse the electronic transaction form; identify a field associated with the electronic form and information in the first payment token; insert information from the first payment token into the field; and transmit the electronic transaction form to the first merchant.
4. The system of claim 2, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: configure the first payment token to include a first shipping address, the first shipping address being associated with the first user; and configure the second payment token to include a second shipping address, the second shipping address being associated with the second user.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of the order indicates acceptance by the second user of the option to purchase the first item from the first merchant and the second item from the second merchant; and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine to not generate the first payment token to purchase the first item from the first merchant and the second payment token to purchase the second item from the second merchant.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the indication of the order is received from the first or second user device.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: process a first payment to pay for the first item using a transaction card associated with the user; and process a second payment to pay for the second item using the transaction card.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the first item identifier comprises at least one of a universal product code (UPC), a stock keeping unit (SKU), a quick response code (QR code), an image, a video, text, or a sound.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first item identifier is a barcode, and wherein the instructions to identify the first item comprise instructions to: determine a UPC associated with the first item identifier based on the bar code; and identify the first item associated with the first item identifier based on the UPC.
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first item identifier is an image of a product, and the instructions to identify the first item comprise instructions to: determine text associated with the image of the product based on optical character recognition; and identify the first item based on the determined text.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the first item identifier is an image of a product, and the instructions to identify the first item comprise instructions to: identify the first item based on the image and a similarity score between the image and a second image of a plurality of images.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: train a machine learning model using information on historical purchase transactions made by the first or second users, wherein the information on historical purchase transactions includes information on items that the first or second users have purchased and merchants where the first or second users have completed transactions; and determine the aggregated user preference based on the machine learning model.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: train a machine learning model, using information on historical purchase transactions made by a plurality of users, to identify items that the plurality of users has purchased from a third plurality of merchants; and determine the aggregated user preference based on the machine learning model.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the plurality of users are related to the first user, and wherein the one or more processors are further configured to: determine that the plurality of users are related to the first user by calculating a commonality score for each of the plurality of users to the first user, wherein the commonality score for each of the plurality of users is above a threshold.
15. The system of claim 1, wherein the aggregated user preference identifies a preference based on a distance.
16. The system of claim 1, wherein the aggregated user preference indicates a preference based on shipping costs.
17. The system of claim 1, wherein the instructions to determine a first merchant comprise instructions to: acquire a location associated with at least one of the first or second user devices; and determine the first merchant from the first plurality of merchants based on a distance between the first merchant's location and the location of the at least one first or second user device.
18. The system of claim 1, wherein instructions to acquire the first plurality of merchants further comprise instructions to: scrape a plurality of electronic platforms, each of the one or more platforms being associated with each of a third plurality of merchants; identify a price of the first item offered by one or more merchants of the third plurality of merchants; and select the first plurality of merchants based on the price.
19. A method comprising: acquiring, by one or more processors, a first item identifier from a first device of a first user and a second item identifier from a second device of a second user via a communication network; identifying, by one or more processors, a first item associated with the first item identifier and a second item associated with the second item identifier; determining, by one or more processors, a commonality score based on data associated with the first user and data associated with the second user; determining, by one or more processors, an aggregated user preference based on a first user preference associated with the first user, a second user preference associated with the second user, and the commonality score; determining, by one or more processors, a first merchant and a second merchant based on the aggregated user preference; providing, by one or more processors, an option to order the first item from the first merchant and the second item from the second merchant to the first device and the second device; receiving an indication of an order; and determining, by one or more processors, whether to generate a first payment token and a second payment token based on the indication of the order, wherein the first payment token comprises data associated with the first item, and wherein the second payment token comprises data associated with the second item.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable media comprising instructions that, when executed by one or more processors, cause operations comprising: acquiring, via a communication network, a first item identifier from a first device and a second item identifier from a second device; identifying a first item associated with the first item identifier and a second item associated with the second item identifier; determining an aggregated user preference based on a first user preference, a second user preference, and a commonality score, wherein the commonality score represents a relationship between a first user associated with the first user preference and a second user associated with the second user preference; providing a first merchant associated with the first item and a second merchant with the second item to the first device and the second device based on the aggregated user preference; and determining whether to generate a first payment token and a second payment token based on an indication sent from the first device or the second device, wherein the first payment token comprises data associated with the first item, and wherein the second payment token comprises data associated with the second item.
</claims>
</document>
