<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-02
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2457,G06F16/435,G06F16/487,G06F16/901,G06Q30/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PINTEREST
</assignee>

<inventors>
EKSOMBATCHAI, CHANTAT
LESKOVEC, JURIJ
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70855965
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Node graph traversal methods
</title>

<abstract>
This disclosure describes systems and methods that facilitate generating recommendations by traversing a node graph. For example, a cluster of nodes in a node graph may be determined for a target node in the node graph based at least in part on a proximity of the nodes in the cluster to the target node in the node graph. A plurality of walks through a node graph may be tracked, and a visit count or score for the target node may be increased for each visit to a node in the cluster. The walks may be terminated after a defined amount of walks have been performed or a defined amount of nodes in the node graph have scores that satisfy a criterion. Content corresponding to nodes may be recommended based on scores or visit counts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: under control of one or more computing systems configured with executable instructions, forming a graph that includes: a first plurality of nodes, each node of the first plurality of nodes representing a collection; a second plurality of nodes, each node in the second plurality of nodes representing a media object; and a plurality of edges, each edge of the plurality of edges representing an association between a node of the first plurality of nodes and a node of the second plurality of nodes; determining a query from the second plurality of nodes; determining a target node in the second plurality of nodes; determining a cluster that includes a first sub-plurality of nodes of the second plurality of nodes and the target node; initiating a plurality of random walks through the graph, wherein: at least one of the plurality of random walks is initiated from a first node included in the query; and at least one node in the cluster is visited during at least one of the plurality of random walks; for each node of the second plurality of nodes, determining a visit count indicating a number of times the node is visited by walks of the plurality of random walks; determining, for the target node, a target node visit count that is based at least in part on a number of times the target node is visited by walks of the plurality of random walks and a number of times nodes of the cluster are visited by walks of the plurality of random walks; determining that a stopping condition has been satisfied; terminating the plurality of random walks; determining, based at least in part on the visit counts and the target node visit count, a recommendation that indicates the target node and at least one node of the second plurality of nodes; and causing media objects represented by the target node and the at least one node of the second plurality of nodes to be sent for presentation to a client device such that the media object corresponding to the target node is presented on the client device.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the target node is an advertisement; and the computer-implemented method further comprising: determining, based at least in part on the plurality of edges, at least one node of the first plurality of nodes that is connected to the target node via an edge; and determining, based at least in part on the plurality of edges, the cluster, wherein the cluster includes nodes in the second plurality of nodes that are connected to the at least one node of the first plurality of nodes.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: the stopping condition is determined to be satisfied based at least in part on a determination that at least a defined amount of the second plurality of nodes have corresponding visit counts that exceed a threshold.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: a media object of the target node is associated with a user-provided annotation; and each of at least a portion of media objects represented by nodes of the second plurality of nodes are associated with user-provided annotations.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: determining topic vectors for the user-provided annotations; determining a second sub-plurality of nodes of the second plurality of nodes that are topically similar to the target node based at least in part on the topic vectors; and determining the cluster based at least in part on the second sub-plurality of nodes.
6. A computer system, comprising: one or more processors; one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to at least: form a graph that includes: a first plurality of nodes; a second plurality of nodes, each node of the second plurality of nodes representing a media object; and a plurality of edges, each edge of the plurality of edges representing an association between a node of the first plurality of nodes and a node of the second plurality of nodes; and identify a query that indicates at least one node of the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes; determine a target node in the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes; determine a cluster that includes a first-sub plurality of nodes of the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes, and the target node; perform a plurality of random walks through the graph, wherein at least one node in the cluster is visited by at least one of the plurality of random walks; determine, for the target node, a target node visit count that is based at least in part on a number of times the target nodes is visited by a walk of the plurality of random walks and visit counts for nodes of the at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes; determine, based at least in part on the visit counts and the target node visit count, a recommendation that indicates at least one node of the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes; and cause the recommendation to be sent to a user device.
7. The computer system of claim 6, wherein: at least one of the plurality of random walks is initiated from a node of the query.
8. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to at least: cause media objects represented by the nodes indicated in the recommendation to be presented on the user device.
9. The computer system of claim 6, wherein each media object includes a link, an image, an audio, or a video.
10. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the target node represents at least one of an advertisement, a new media object, or a new collection.
11. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to at least: determine that at least a defined amount of nodes in the second plurality of nodes have corresponding visit counts that meet a threshold; and in response to a determination that at least a defined amount of nodes in the second plurality of nodes have corresponding visit counts that meet a threshold, terminate the plurality of random walks through the graph.
12. The computer system of claim 6, wherein the query is determined based at least in part on a selection of a node of the second plurality of nodes being received from the user device.
13. The computer system of claim 12, wherein the query is further determined based at least in part on a second selected node in the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes, wherein the second selected node and the selected node are received separately from one another, and wherein the second selected node is selected from a second recommendation by a user associated with the user device.
14. The computer system of claim 12, wherein: a user is associated with the user device and a first node of the first plurality of nodes; and the query is further determined based at least in part on the first node.
15. A non-transitory computer-readable storage media storing instructions that when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to at least: form a graph that includes: a first plurality of nodes; a second plurality of nodes, each node of the second plurality of nodes representing a media object; and a plurality of edges, each edge of the plurality of edges representing an association between a node of the first plurality of nodes and a node of the second plurality of nodes; determine a target node; determine a first sub-plurality of nodes of the first plurality of nodes or the second plurality of nodes corresponding to the target node; perform a plurality of random walks through the graph, wherein at least one of the first sub-plurality of nodes is visited by at least one of the plurality of random walks; and determine, for at least a portion of the first plurality of nodes or at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes, a visit count indicating a number of times the node is visited by a walk of the plurality of random walks; determine, for the target node, a target node visit count that is based at least in part on a number of times the target node is visited by a walk of the plurality of random walks and visit counts for nodes of the first sub-plurality of nodes; rank the target node and the at least a portion of the first plurality of nodes or the at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes based on the target node visit count and the visit counts; determine a recommendation that indicates a plurality of highest ranked nodes, wherein the plurality of highest ranked nodes includes the target node; and cause media objects represented by the highest ranked nodes to be sent to a user device.
16. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to at least: determine that a defined amount of the at least a portion of the first plurality of nodes or the at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes have visit counts that exceed a threshold; and in response to a determination that a defined amount of the at least a portion of the first plurality of nodes or the at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes have visit counts that exceed a threshold, terminate the plurality of random walks through the graph.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to at least: determine a media object represented by a first node having an age that meets a defined age range; and wherein the target node is determined to be the first node.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the media object represented by the target node includes an advertisement.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein the instructions when executed by the one or more processors further cause the one or more processors to at least: determine a first node is connected to the target node; determine a second sub-plurality of nodes that are connected to the first node; and wherein the first sub-plurality of nodes includes the second sub-plurality of nodes.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable storage media of claim 15, wherein: media objects represented by each of the at least a portion of the second plurality of nodes are each associated with an age; and the target node is determined to represent a media object having a lowest age.
</claims>
</document>
