<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-09-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G08G1/0967
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOYOTA RESEARCH INSTITUTE
</assignee>

<inventors>
AMACKER, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69645742
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Self-driving infrastructure
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to providing vehicles in the real world with instructions while operating on a roadway portion. The roadway portion may be one or more lanes in a segment of a roadway. A first set of vehicles may be equipped with a communication device for communication with one or more servers configured to provide instructions and/or other information. One or more objects at or near the roadway portion may be identified. A presence of first object not in the first set of vehicles may be detected. The first object may not include a communication device. A warning notification may be provided to vehicles at or near the roadway portion when the first object is detected. Instructions to perform one or more driving maneuvers may be provided to vehicles at or near the roadway portion when the first object is detected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a structure comprising a sensor, wherein the structure is located within a specified distance of a roadway; and a server computer comprising one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions that cause the one or more physical processors to provide a warning message to a set of vehicles on the roadway by: receiving a geo-location and identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway, wherein the sensor of the structure triangulates the geo-location for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway, wherein the identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway is transmitted to the system using a communication device corresponding with each vehicle, and wherein the geo-location and the identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway is transmitted via electronic communication links established via a network between each communication device and the system; comparing a first identifier of at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles with a list of authorized vehicles; when the first identifier of the at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles does not match a second identifier corresponding with the list of authorized vehicles, determining that the first identifier of the at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles corresponds with an unauthorized vehicle; generating the warning message indicating that the unauthorized vehicle is present within the geo-location of the set of vehicles and is not included with the list of authorized vehicles; and providing the warning message regarding the unauthorized vehicle, wherein other vehicles of the set of vehicles are given access to operate on the roadway.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles includes a vehicle identification number, manufacturer serial number, or vehicle registration plate.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles is provided by a communication device associated with at least one of the vehicles.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles is a manufacture serial number of the communication device or a user account associated with the communication device.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the other vehicles included with the list of authorized vehicles are given access to operate on the roadway by satisfying access criteria.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the roadway comprises a set of one or more lanes on a segment of the roadway.
7. A method configured to provide a set of vehicles with a warning message while operating on a roadway, the method comprising: receiving, by a server computer, a geo-location and identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway, wherein the roadway comprises a structure comprising a sensor, wherein the structure is located within a specified distance of a roadway, and wherein the sensor of the structure triangulates the geo-location for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway, wherein the identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway is transmitted to the server computer using a communication device corresponding with each vehicle, and wherein the geo-location and the identifier for each vehicle of the set of vehicles on the roadway is transmitted via electronic communication links established via a network between each communication device and the server computer; comparing, by the server computer, a first identifier of at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles with a list of authorized vehicles; when the first identifier of the at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles does not match a second identifier corresponding with the list of authorized vehicles, determining, by the server computer, that the first identifier of the at least one of the vehicles of the set of vehicles corresponds with an unauthorized vehicle; generating, by the server computer, the warning message indicating that the unauthorized vehicle is present within the geo-location of the set of vehicles and is not included with the list of authorized vehicles; and providing the warning message regarding the unauthorized vehicle, wherein other vehicles of the set of vehicles are given access to operate on the roadway.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles includes a vehicle identification number, manufacturer serial number, or vehicle registration plate.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles is provided by a communication device associated with at least one of the vehicles.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the identifier of at least one of the vehicles is a manufacture serial number of the communication device or a user account associated with the communication device.
11. The method of claim 7, wherein the other vehicles included with the list of authorized vehicles are given access to operate on the roadway by satisfying access criteria.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein the roadway comprises a set of one or more lanes on a segment of the roadway.
13. A system comprising: a structure comprising a sensor, wherein the structure is located within a specified distance of a roadway; and a server computer comprising one or more physical processors configured by machine-readable instructions that cause the one or more physical processors to provide a warning message to a set of vehicles on the roadway by: receiving a geo-location and motion information of a set of objects on the roadway, wherein the sensor of the structure detects the motion information of the set of objects within a field of view of the sensor, wherein the structure transmits the geolocation and the motion information to the server, and wherein the geo-location and the motion information are transmitted from the sensor of the structure to a detection component of the server computer using electronic communication links established via a network between the sensor and the server computer; comparing the motion information of at least one of the set of objects with an achieved vehicular velocity; when the motion information of at least one of the set of objects is less than the achieved vehicular velocity, determining that the at least one of the set of objects on the roadway is a pedestrian, wherein the motion information of the pedestrian is communicated via an electronic communication link established via the network between a mobile device of the pedestrian and the server computer; generating the warning message indicating that the pedestrian is present within the geo-location of the set of vehicles; and providing the warning message regarding the pedestrian, wherein other vehicles of the set of vehicles are given access to operate on the roadway.
14. The system of claim 13, further comprising a second sensor, wherein the second sensor is an infrared sensor; and the server computer is further configured to: compare temperature information corresponding with the set of objects; and when the temperature information of at least one of the set of objects corresponds with a predetermined heat signature, determine that the at least one of the set of objects on the roadway is a second pedestrian.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the roadway comprises a set of one or more lanes on a segment of the roadway.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the roadway comprises a sidewalk and the pedestrian generates the motion information from the sidewalk.
17. The system of claim 13, wherein the determination of the pedestrian uses a machine learning technique.
18. The system of claim 13, wherein the determination of the pedestrian uses an object classification technique.
</claims>
</document>
