<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,G06K9/00,H04B1/38,H04L29/08,H04N5/33,H04N7/15
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DENSO INTERNATIONAL AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALASRY, BILAL
VANG, DOUA
ZHANG, YU
KANG, TE-PING
UPMANUE, VIKAS
BLEICHER, SEAN
SPUNAR, NICHOLAUS
DUKE, ELEANOR
NECOVSKI, JORDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70774899
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System for soothing an occupant in a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
A system in a vehicle comprises one or more sensors configured to obtain occupant information indicating a stress level of an occupant of the vehicle. The system also includes a wireless transceiver in communication with a mobile device including a camera configured to monitor the occupant, and a controller in communication with the one or more sensors and the wireless transceiver, wherein the controller is configured to determine a stress-level of the occupant utilizing at least the occupant information, initiate a video conference session on the mobile device between the occupant and one or more contacts of the occupant in response to the determination of the stress level of the occupant exceeding a threshold, and output on a vehicle display the video conference between the occupant and the one or more contacts.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system in a vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors configured to obtain occupant information indicating a stress level of an occupant of the vehicle including a mic configured to obtain voice information from the occupant; a wireless transceiver in communication with a mobile device including a camera configured to monitor the occupant; a controller in communication with the one or more sensors and the wireless transceiver, wherein the controller is configured to: determine a stress level of the occupant utilizing at least the occupant information including fluctuations in tone or speech of the voice information from the occupant; initiate a video conference session on the mobile device with a remote mobile device of one or more contacts of the occupant in response to the determination of the stress level of the occupant exceeding a threshold and confirmation of a driver to initiate the video conference session; and output on a display the video conference between the occupant and the one or more contacts.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to obtain user profile information from a mobile phone of the driver via the wireless transceiver and initiate the video conference session with one or more contacts other than the driver.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile device includes the one or more sensors and the display.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to obtain user profile information from a key fob associated with the driver of the vehicle and not initiate the video conference session between the occupant and the driver.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is further configured to initiate termination of the video conference session in response to the determination of the stress level of the occupant falling below the threshold.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system further includes a camera configured to capture images of the occupant of a vehicle; and utilize the images of the occupant in the video conference session.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to select the one or more contacts to initiate the video conference session with in response to at least identification of the driver of the vehicle.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the one or more sensors includes a thermal camera configured to obtain thermal readings from the occupant.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the video conference session includes a video image of two or more contacts.
10. A system in a vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors configured to obtain occupant information indicating a stress level of an occupant of the vehicle, wherein the one or more sensors includes at least a mic configured to obtain voice information from the occupant; a camera located in the vehicle and configured to monitor the occupant; and a controller in communication with the one or more sensors, wherein the controller is configured to: determine a stress load of the occupant utilizing at least information indicative of the stress load from at least the voice information of the occupant; initiate a video conference session between the occupant and one or more contacts associated with the occupant in response to the stress load exceeding a threshold and confirmation from a driver to initiate the video conference session; and output the video conference session on a display associated with the occupant.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the controller is further configured to obtain user profile information from vehicle settings associated with the occupant of the vehicle and adjust the threshold in response to the user profile information.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the vehicle settings associated with the occupant include climate controls associate with a climate zone of the occupant.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the vehicle settings associated with the occupant include seating controls associated with a vehicle seat of the occupant.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the controller is configured select the one or more contacts to initiate the video conference session with in response to at least identification of the driver of the vehicle.
15. A system in a vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors configured to obtain stress-load information indicative of a stress load of an occupant of the vehicle, wherein the one or more sensors includes at least a mic configured to obtain voice information from the occupant; a controller in communication with the one or more sensors, wherein the controller is configured to: determine the stress load of the occupant utilizing at least the voice information including fluctuations in tone or speech of the voice information from the occupant; initiate a video conference session between the occupant and a remote mobile device of one or more contacts associated with the occupant in response to the stress load exceeding a threshold, wherein the video conference session is initiated utilizing an in-vehicle camera; and output the video conference session on a mobile device associated with the occupant.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is further configured to select one or more contacts associated with the occupant to initiate the video conference session in response to at least identification of the occupant utilizing the in-vehicle camera.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured select the one or more contacts to initiate the video conference session in response to at least identification of a driver of the vehicle.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is further configured to initiate termination of the video conference session in response to a duration of the video conference session exceeding a time threshold.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is further configured to initiate termination of the video conference session in response to the determination of the stress load of the occupant falling below the threshold.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the controller is configured select the one or more contacts to initiate the video conference session in response to a voice input from a driver of the vehicle.
</claims>
</document>
