<document>

<filing_date>
2020-01-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-01-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G08B25/01,G10L15/26,H04M11/04,H04W4/90
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHILDRESS RHONDA L.
BENDER, MICHAEL
BOSS, GREGORY J.
Johnson, Matthew
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74180609
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Ambient situational abnormality detection and response
</title>

<abstract>
An embodiment includes receiving, by a processor, a sensor signal from a monitoring sensor during a scheduled monitoring session for monitoring a first user. An embodiment includes processing, by the processor, the sensor signal using a machine learning (ML) model such that the ML model outputs an indication of whether the first user is experiencing a potential emergency. An embodiment includes performing, by the processor in response to the ML model indicating that the first user is experiencing a potential emergency, a verification routine that includes transmitting a verification request and, upon detecting a lack of response to the verification request within a predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as an actual emergency. An embodiment includes requesting, by the processor automatically in response to the verification routine confirming that the potential emergency is an actual emergency, dispatch of emergency services to a location of the first user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a processor, a sensor signal from a monitoring sensor during a scheduled monitoring session for monitoring a first user; processing, by the processor, the sensor signal using a machine learning (ML) model such that the ML model outputs an indication of whether the first user is experiencing a potential emergency; performing, by the processor in response to the ML model indicating that the first user is experiencing a potential emergency, a verification routine that includes transmitting a verification request and, upon detecting a lack of response to the verification request within a predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as an actual emergency; requesting, by the processor automatically in response to the verification routine confirming that the potential emergency is an actual emergency, dispatch of emergency services to a location of the first user; receiving, by the processor, a first request from the first user to schedule a monitoring session; receiving, by the processor, location information for the first user from a first location device; receiving, by the processor, a second request from a second user, to schedule a monitoring session; receiving, by the processor, location information for the second user from a second location device; and recognizing, by the processor, that the first and second requests relate to a meeting between the first and second users.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the performing of the verification routine includes, upon receiving an emergency-confirming response to the verification request within the predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as the actual emergency.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting, by the processor, a beginning of the meeting between the first and second users based on the location information for the first and second users indicating that the first and second users have both arrived at a same location.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: detecting, by the processor, an end of the meeting between the first and second users based on the location information for the first and second users indicating that the first and second users are more than a threshold distance away from each other.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: determining, by the processor, whether the first and second users are experiencing potential emergencies based at least in part on a comparison of a time of the detected end of the meeting and a previously-indicated planned time for the end of the meeting.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: performing, by the processor in response to determining that the first and second users are experiencing potential emergencies, the verification routine to confirm whether the potential emergencies are actual emergencies.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the verification request is sent to a third party who was previously registered by the first user as an emergency contact.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the monitoring sensor comprises a microphone and the sensor signal comprises an audio signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises natural language processing (NLP), such that the NLP processing results in a transcription of the audio signal, and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the audio.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the monitoring sensor further comprises a camera and the sensor signal further comprises a video signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises: extracting frames from the video signal; and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the video.
10. A computer usable program product comprising a computer-readable storage device, and program instructions stored on the storage device, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive, by a processor, a sensor signal from a monitoring sensor during a scheduled monitoring session for monitoring a first user; program instructions to process, by the processor, the sensor signal using a machine learning (ML) model such that the ML model outputs an indication of whether the first user is experiencing a potential emergency; program instructions to perform, by the processor in response to the ML model indicating that the first user is experiencing a potential emergency, a verification routine that includes transmitting a verification request and, upon detecting a lack of response to the verification request within a predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as an actual emergency; program instructions to request, by the processor automatically in response to the verification routine confirming that the potential emergency is an actual emergency, dispatch of emergency services to a location of the first user; program instructions to receive, by the processor, a first request from the first user to schedule a monitoring session; program instructions to receive, by the processor, location information for the first user from a first location device; program instructions to receive, by the processor, a second request from a second user, to schedule a monitoring session; program instructions to receive, by the processor, location information for the second user from a second location device; and program instructions to recognize, by the processor, that the first and second requests relate to a meeting between the first and second users.
11. The computer usable program product of claim 10, wherein the performing of the verification routine includes, upon receiving an emergency-confirming response to the verification request within the predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as the actual emergency.
12. The computer usable program product of claim 10, wherein the monitoring sensor comprises a microphone and the sensor signal comprises an audio signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises natural language processing (NLP), such that the NLP processing results in a transcription of the audio signal, and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the audio.
13. The computer usable program product of claim 12, wherein the monitoring sensor further comprises a camera and the sensor signal further comprises a video signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises: extracting frames from the video signal; and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the video.
14. A computer system comprising a processor, a computer-readable memory, and a computer-readable storage device, and program instructions stored on the storage device for execution by the processor via the memory, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive, by the processor, a sensor signal from a monitoring sensor during a scheduled monitoring session for monitoring a first user; program instructions to process, by the processor, the sensor signal using a machine learning (ML) model such that the ML model outputs an indication of whether the first user is experiencing a potential emergency; program instructions to perform, by the processor in response to the ML model indicating that the first user is experiencing a potential emergency, a verification routine that includes transmitting a verification request and, upon detecting a lack of response to the verification request within a predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as an actual emergency; program instructions to request, by the processor automatically in response to the verification routine confirming that the potential emergency is an actual emergency, dispatch of emergency services to a location of the first user; program instructions to receive, by the processor, a first request from the first user to schedule a monitoring session; program instructions to receive, by the processor, location information for the first user from a first location device; program instructions to receive, by the processor, a second request from a second user, to schedule a monitoring session; program instructions to receive, by the processor, location information for the second user from a second location device; and program instructions to recognize, by the processor, that the first and second requests relate to a meeting between the first and second users.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the performing of the verification routine includes, upon receiving an emergency-confirming response to the verification request within the predetermined amount of time, confirming the potential emergency as the actual emergency.
16. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the monitoring sensor comprises a microphone and the sensor signal comprises an audio signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises natural language processing (NLP), such that the NLP processing results in a transcription of the audio, and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the audio.
17. The computer system of claim 16, wherein the monitoring sensor further comprises a camera and the sensor signal further comprises a video signal, and wherein the processing of the sensor signal comprises: extracting frames from the video signal; and ML processing, such that the ML processing results in an indication of a likelihood of an emergency happening in the video.
</claims>
</document>
