<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-03-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B05B1/28,B05B12/12,B05B14/00,B05B15/625,B05B7/00,B05B7/24,B05B7/26,B05B9/00,B05B9/01,B05C11/10,B05C3/18,B05C5/00,B05C5/02,B05D1/02,B05D3/04,B05D3/06,B24B49/12,B24B55/06,B24B55/10,B24B7/18,B25J11/00,B25J15/00,B25J9/00,B25J9/16,B26D3/08,B26D5/00,E04B1/76,E04F21/00,E04F21/02,E04F21/08,E04F21/12,E04F21/16,E04F21/165,E04F21/18
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CANVAS CONSTRUCTION
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALBERT, KEVIN B.
ALLEN, THOMAS F.
POMPA, JONATHAN B.
TELLERIA, MARIA J.
HEIN, GABRIEL F.
BENNETSEN, HENRIK
FLANNERY, MILES J.
TONOYAN, HENRY
PEDERSEN, JOSEPHINE MARIE
YOEL, ALANA G. R.
YAN, CHARLIE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63672234
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automated drywall mudding system and method
</title>

<abstract>
An automated drywalling system for applying joint compound or plaster to drywall pieces. The system includes a robotic arm and a mudding end effector coupled at a distal end of the robotic arm, the mudding end effector configured to apply joint compound or plaster to a target surface. The system can further include a computing device executing a computational planner that: generates instructions for driving the mudding end effector and robotic arm to perform at least one mudding task that includes applying joint compound or plaster, via the mudding the end effector, to one or more joints between a plurality of drywall pieces, the generating based at least in part on obtained target surface data; and drives the end effector and robotic arm to perform the at least one mudding task.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automated drywalling system for applying joint compound to drywall of a wall assembly, the automated drywalling system comprising: a base unit that includes: a mud source configured to store joint compound or plaster; a platform, a cart configured to be disposed on and move on the ground, and a lift disposed between the platform and cart, the lift configured to raise the platform up and down; an elongated robotic arm that extends between a base end and a distal end, the robotic arm coupled to the base unit on the platform at the base end of the robotic arm; a mudding end effector coupled at the distal end of the robotic arm, the mudding end effector including a spray gun configured to generate a spray of joint compound or plaster from a nozzle of the spray gun, the spray gun coupled with a mud tube extending from the mud source via the robotic arm, the spray gun configured to receive joint compound or plaster from the mud source via the mud tube to generate the spray of joint compound or plaster; one or more vision systems; one or more sensors; a computing device executing a computational planner that: obtains target surface data from the one or more vision systems and the one or more sensors, the target surface data including information regarding a configuration of a wall assembly including a plurality of drywall pieces disposed on the wall assembly forming one or more joints between respective drywall pieces; automatically generates, instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform at least one mudding task that includes applying a joint compound spray generated by the spray gun of the mudding end effector to at least the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, the generating based at least in part on the target surface data, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates the instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform the at least one mudding task based on a requirement for a level of drywall finish; and automatically drives, the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform the at least one mudding task.
2. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates, instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to apply joint tape to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces; system uses features detected by the vision system to determine the amount of mud and profile of the mud to be applied at the feature.
3. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the mudding end effector further comprises a vacuum hood disposed around an end and the nozzle of the spray gun to capture overspray generated by the spray of joint compound or plaster generated by the nozzle of the spray gun.
4. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the generating instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to apply joint compound to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, is further based on data obtained while the automated drywalling system was hanging the drywall pieces on the wall assembly.
5. An automated drywalling system comprising: a base unit; an elongated robotic arm that extends between a base end and a distal end, the robotic arm coupled to the base unit at the base end of the robotic arm; a mudding end effector coupled at the distal end of the robotic arm, the mudding end effector configured to apply joint compound or plaster to a target surface; one or more vision systems; and a computing device executing a computational planner that: obtains target surface data from the one or more vision systems, the target surface data including information regarding a configuration of a wall assembly including a plurality of drywall pieces disposed on the wall assembly forming one or more joints between respective drywall pieces; automatically generates, instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform at least one mudding task that includes applying joint compound or plaster, via the mudding the end effector, to at least the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, the generating based at least in part on the target surface data, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates the instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform the at least one mudding task based on a requirement for a level of drywall finish; and automatically drives, the end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform the at least one mudding task.
6. The automated drywalling system of claim 5, wherein the mudding end effector applies joint compound or plaster to a target surface via at least one of a spray gun and a drywall flat box.
7. The automated drywalling system of claim 5, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates, instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to apply joint tape to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces.
8. The automated drywalling system of claim 7, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates, instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to run a blade over joint tape and joint compound applied at the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces.
9. The automated drywalling system of claim 5, wherein the mudding end effector comprises a spray guard that at least partially extends about and past a nozzle of a spray gun of the mudding end effector.
10. The automated drywalling system of claim 5, wherein the mudding end effector further includes a guiding element configured to engage the target surface or adjacent portion of a wall assembly to guide the mudding end effector in mudding the target surface.
11. The automated drywalling system of claim 5, wherein the generating instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to apply joint compound to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, is further based on data obtained while the automated drywalling system was hanging the drywall pieces on the wall assembly.
12. An automated drywalling system comprising: a robotic arm that extends between a base end and a distal end; a mudding end effector coupled at the distal end of a positioning stage, the mudding end effector configured to apply joint compound or plaster to a target surface; a computing device executing a computational planner that: generates instructions for driving the mudding end effector and positioning stage to perform at least one mudding task that includes applying joint compound or plaster, via the mudding the end effector, to one or more joints between a plurality of drywall pieces, the generating based at least in part on obtained target surface data, wherein the computational planner further generates the instructions for driving the mudding end effector and positioning stage to perform the at least one mudding task based on a requirement for a level of drywall finish; and drives the end effector and positioning stage to perform the at least one mudding task.
13. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the computational planner further automatically determines an amount of joint compound to apply to the one or more joints based on the target surface data and determines a joint compound profile for joint compound to be applied to the one or more joints based on the target surface data, and wherein the computational planner further generates, the instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to apply joint compound to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces based at least in part on the determined amount of joint compound to apply and the determined joint compound profile.
14. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the mudding end effector further comprises a blower, wherein the blower is configured to apply heat and/or dry air to joint compound that has been applied by the mudding end effector.
15. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the computational planner obtains at least a portion of the target surface data from one or more vision systems, the target surface data including information regarding a configuration of the plurality of drywall pieces and the one or more joints between respective drywall pieces.
16. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the generating instructions for driving the mudding end effector and positioning stage to apply joint compound to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, is further based on data obtained while the automated drywalling system was hanging the drywall pieces.
17. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the automated drywalling system further comprises a mixing system for the mixing joint compound or plaster and providing the joint compound or plaster to the mudding end effector, and wherein the computational planner changes mixing parameters of the joint compound or plaster generated by the mixing system based on environmental condition data obtained from one or more sensors of the automated drywalling system.
18. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the mudding end effector applies joint compound or plaster to a target surface via at least one of a spray gun and a drywall flat box.
19. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the computational planner further generates instructions for driving the mudding end effector and positioning stage to apply joint tape to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces.
20. The automated drywalling system of claim 12, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates instructions for driving the mudding end effector and positioning stage to apply joint tape to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, wherein joint tape or joint compound of different colors is applied to different joints for detection by one or more vision systems of the automated drywalling system to indicate a difference in joints.
21. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates the instructions to perform the at least one mudding task including instructions for real-time automatic adjustments of the amount of the joint compound being applied based on the requirement for the level of drywall finish.
22. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates the instructions to perform the at least one mudding task including instructions for real-time updating of the tool paths and/or tool parameters for improving the finish level of joint compound being applied based on the requirement for the level of drywall finish.
23. The automated drywalling system of claim 1, wherein the computational planner further automatically generates the instructions for driving the mudding end effector, robotic arm, and base unit to perform the at least one mudding task that includes following a path defined by the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces, to apply the joint compound spray generated by the spray gun of the mudding end effector to the one or more joints between the respective drywall pieces.
</claims>
</document>
