<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-13
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,H04N19/119,H04N19/164,H04N5/00,H04N5/232
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
THE TRUSTEES OF INDIANA UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOPALAKRISHNAN, VIJAY
HAN BO
HAO, SHUAI
QIAN FENG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69406632
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods, systems and devices for adjusting panoramic video content
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, embodiments for capturing video content with a camera. The camera is communicatively coupled to the device. Further embodiments include obtaining a network condition of a communication network. Additional embodiments include determining a network criterion according to the network condition. Also, embodiments include calculating a threshold according to the network criterion. Further embodiments include adjusting the video content in response to determining network criterion resulting in adjusted video content. Additional embodiments include determining that a first portion of the adjusted video content satisfies the threshold. Also, embodiments include transmitting the adjusted video content to a video content server over the communication network. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: identifying a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network; responsive to the identifying: capturing video content with a camera with a panoramic view for the video content at a first panoramic setting based on a first axis, wherein the camera is communicatively coupled to the device; and adjusting the video content according to the network condition resulting in adjusted video content, wherein the adjusting reduces a scope of images in the video content by adjusting the first axis to a second axis and reducing the panoramic view of the video content from the first panoramic setting based on the first axis to a second panoramic setting based on the second axis that decreases bandwidth utilization of the communication network to mitigate the network condition.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise calculating a threshold according to the network condition.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: determining that a first portion of the adjusted video content satisfies the threshold; and transmitting the adjusted video content to a video content server over the communication network.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise: re-adjusting the video content in response to determining that a second portion of the adjusted video content does not satisfy the threshold resulting in re-adjusted video content; and transmitting the re-adjusted video content to a video content server over the communication network.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the identifying of the network condition comprises receiving the network condition from a video content server over the communication network.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein the network condition comprises an available bandwidth, capacity, latency, throughput, jitter, or any combination thereof.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the adjusting of the video content comprises adjusting the video content in response detecting an object of interest within the video content.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the operations comprise obtaining an image of the object of interest, wherein detecting the object of interest comprises matching the object of interest with the image of the object of interest using image recognition techniques.
9. A non-transitory, machine-readable medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations, the operations comprising: identifying a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network; responsive to the identifying: capturing video content with a camera with a panoramic view for the video content at a first panoramic setting based on a first axis, wherein the camera is communicatively coupled to the processing system; identifying an object of interest within the video content; and adjusting the video content according to the network condition and the object of interest resulting in adjusted video content, wherein the adjusting reduces a scope of images in the video content by adjusting the first axis to a second axis and reducing the panoramic view of the video content from the first panoramic setting based on the first axis to a second panoramic setting based on the second axis that decreases bandwidth utilization of the communication network to mitigate the network condition.
10. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise calculating a threshold according to the network condition.
11. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: determining that a first portion of the adjusted video content satisfies the threshold; and transmitting the adjusted video content to a video content server over the communication network.
12. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 10, wherein the operations further comprise: re-adjusting the video content in response to determining that a second portion of the adjusted video content does not satisfy the threshold resulting in re-adjusted video content; and transmitting the re-adjusted video content to a video content server over the communication network.
13. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the identifying of the network condition comprises receiving the network condition from a video content server over the communication network.
14. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the network condition comprises an available bandwidth, capacity, latency, throughput, jitter, or any combination thereof.
15. The non-transitory, machine-readable medium of claim 9, wherein the operations comprise obtaining an image of the object of interest, wherein the identifying the object of interest comprises matching the object of interest with the image of the object of interest using image recognition techniques.
16. A method, comprising: receiving, by a processing system including a processor, a network condition that adversely affects network bandwidth of a communication network from a video content server; responsive to the receiving: capturing, by the processing system, video content with a camera with a panoramic view for the video content at a first panoramic setting based on a first axis, wherein the camera is communicatively coupled to the processing system; and adjusting, by the processing system, the video content according to the network condition resulting in adjusted video content, wherein the adjusting reduces a scope of images in the video content by adjusting the first axis to a second axis and reducing the panoramic view of the video content from the first panoramic setting based on the first axis to a second panoramic setting based on the second axis that decreases bandwidth utilization of the communication network to mitigate the network condition.
17. The method of claim 16, comprising calculating, by the processing system, a threshold according to the network condition.
18. The method of claim 17, comprising transmitting, by the processing system, the adjusted video content to the video content server over the communication network in response to determining, by the processing system, that a first portion of the adjusted video content satisfies the threshold.
19. The method of claim 17, comprising: re-adjusting, by the processing system, the video content in response to determining that a second portion of the adjusted video content does not satisfy the threshold resulting in re-adjusted video content; and transmitting, by the processing system, the re-adjusted video content to the video content server over the communication network.
20. The method of claim 16, wherein the adjusting of the video content comprises adjusting, by the processing system, the video content in response detecting, by the processing system, an object of interest within the video content.
</claims>
</document>
