<document>

<filing_date>
2018-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/024,A61B5/0402,A61B5/053,A61B5/06,A61B5/11
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
LI, YELEI
WIGGINS, MATTHEW
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68160911
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systematic apparatus for motion sensor and optical sensor based cardiac arrhythmia triage
</title>

<abstract>
A method for detecting arrhythmia, including receiving, via at least one motion sensor, channels of raw motion signals for a user; monitoring the channels for motion activity; generating segments from the raw motion signals; determining heartbeat event locations from the generated segments; performing false alarm detection on the raw motion signals and heartbeat event locations to generated refined abnormal candidates.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting arrhythmia, comprising: receiving, via at least one motion sensor, channels of raw motion signals for a user; monitoring the channels for motion activity; generating segments from the raw motion signals; determining heartbeat event locations from the generated segments; and performing false alarm detection on the raw motion signals and the heartbeat event locations to generate refined abnormal candidates.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: before generating segments from the raw motion signals, monitoring an activity level of the user to determine whether the user is stationary based on whether the activity level of the user is below a predetermined threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one motion sensor of includes a three-axis accelerometer, and the channels comprise three channels each respectively corresponding to one of three-axes of the three-axis accelerometer, and the raw motion signals are ballistocardiogram (BCG) signals.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the at least one motion sensor consists of one motion sensor.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining an inter-heat interval (IBI) of each of the channels.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein performing false alarm detection further comprises: detecting, from the heartbeat event locations, a first abnormal candidate; determining, based on different change trends of the IBI for at least two of the channels, that the first abnormal candidate is a low confidence abnormal candidate; detecting, from the heartbeat event locations, at least one second abnormal candidate; and determining, by matching the first abnormal candidate and the at least one second abnormal candidate such that a predetermined threshold of matching has been met, that the first abnormal candidate and the at least one second abnormal candidate are high confidence abnormal candidates.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the generated refined abnormal candidates comprise the first abnormal candidate.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein performing false alarm detection further comprises masking noise on the first abnormal candidate by excluding snoring motions from the first abnormal candidate to generate a masked first abnormal candidate, and wherein the generated refined abnormal candidates comprise the masked first abnormal candidate.
9. The method of claim 6, further comprising: receiving, via at least one optical sensor, second raw motion signals of the user; generating second segments from the second raw motion signals; determining second heartbeat event locations from the generated second segments; and determining, by matching the second raw motion signals and the raw motion signals, a positive arrhythmia detection.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: displaying a notification notifying the user of the positive arrhythmia detection and recommendation to the user to trigger an electrocardiogram (ECG) spot check.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, based on the heartbeat event locations, onset and offset arrhythmia events; and calculating, based on the onset and offset arrhythmia events, atrial fibrillation burden of the user.
12. The method of claim 1, further comprising: applying an Nth order median filter to the generated refined abnormal candidates, where N is a natural number.
13. A method for detecting arrhythmia, comprising: receiving, via at least one motion sensor, raw motion signals for a user; monitoring the raw motion signals for motion activity; pre-processing the raw motion signals to filter out components of the raw motion signals; storing the filtered out components; and determining an inter-beat interval (IBI) of the raw motion signals.
14. An electronic device, comprising: at least one motion sensor configured to detect raw motion signals for a user and output the raw motion signals as individual channels; a processor configured to: monitor the channels for motion activity; generate segments from the raw motion signals; determine heartbeat event locations from the generated segments; and perform false alarm detection on the raw motion signals and the heartbeat event locations to generate refined abnormal candidates; and a display configured to display at least one of the one or more health information.
15. The electronic device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: before generating segments from the raw motion signals, monitor an activity level of the user to determine whether the user is stationary based on whether the activity level of the user is below a predetermined threshold.
16. The electronic device of claim 14, wherein the at least one motion sensor includes a three-axis accelerometer, and the channels comprise three channels each respectively corresponding to one of three-axes of the three-axis accelerometer, and the raw motion signals are ballistocardiogram (BCG) signals.
17. The electronic device of claim 14, further comprising a transform module configured to transform the raw motion signals to reconstructed signals, wherein the transform module comprises: a decomposing module configured to decompose the raw motion signals to decomposed signals, and a reconstruction module configured to reconstruct the decomposed signals to the reconstructed signals.
18. The electronic device of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine an inter-beat interval (IBI) of each of the channels; and wherein the processor is further configured to: detect, from the heartbeat event locations, a first abnormal candidate; determine, based on different change trends of the IBI for at least two of the channels, that the first abnormal candidate is a low confidence abnormal candidate; detect, from the heartbeat event locations, at least one second abnormal candidate; and determine, by matching the first abnormal candidate and the at least one second abnormal candidate such that a predetermined threshold of matching has been met, that the first abnormal candidate and the at least one second abnormal candidate are high confidence abnormal candidates.
19. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein the generated refined abnormal candidates comprise the first abnormal candidate.
20. The electronic device of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to mask noise on the first abnormal candidate by excluding snoring motions from the first abnormal candidate to generate a masked first abnormal candidate; and wherein the generated refined abnormal candidates comprise the masked first abnormal candidate.
21. The electronic device of claim 18, further comprising at least one optical sensor configured to detect second raw motion signals of the user, wherein the processor is further configured to: receive second raw motion signals of the user; generate second segments from the second raw motion signals; determine second heartbeat event locations from the generated second segments; and determine, by matching the second raw motion signals and the raw motion signals, a positive arrhythmia detection.
22. The electronic device of claim 21, wherein the display is further configured to display a notification to the user of the positive arrhythmia detection and recommendation to the user to trigger an electrocardiogram (ECG) spot check.
</claims>
</document>
