<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-04
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-04
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/06,G06F9/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EMC IP HOLDING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALTAYE, YOHANNES
DANILOV, MIKHAIL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71403536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Updating protection sets in a geographically distributed storage environment
</title>

<abstract>
In one or more embodiments described herein, system, method, and/or computer program products that facilitate updating degraded data protection sets in a geographically distributed storage system. According to an embodiment, a method can comprise receiving, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, a request to update a protection set for a first coded chunk in response to detecting deletion of a primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk and the primary data chunk are stored in a geographically distributed data storage system. The method can comprise generating, by the system, a transformation data chunk utilizing a secondary data chunk stored in the geographically distributed data storage system. The method can further comprise generating, by the system, a second coded chunk having an updated protection set, wherein the updated protection set is generated utilizing the transformation data chunk.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a request to update a protection set for a first coded chunk in response to detecting deletion of a primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk and the primary data chunk are stored in a geographically distributed data storage system; generating a transformation data chunk utilizing a secondary data chunk stored in the geographically distributed data storage system; and generating a second coded chunk having an updated protection set that has been updated from the protection set, wherein the second coded chunk is generated utilizing the transformation data chunk and the first coded chunk.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise updating the first coded chunk with the second coded chunk.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the operations further comprise deleting the first coded chunk and the transformation data chunk.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the generating the second coded chunk comprises using an XOR operation to combine the transformation data chunk and the first coded chunk.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the first coded chunk comprises a coded version of the primary data chunk, and wherein the first coded chunk is a result of a Geo erasure coding.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the geographically distributed data storage system utilizes a plurality of zones for storing one or more chunks of data, and wherein the primary data chunk is stored at a first zone, the secondary data chunk is stored at a second zone, and the first coded chunk is stored at a third zone.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the transformation data chunk is generated at the second zone.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the operations further comprise: transforming the transformation data chunk from the second zone to the third zone.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the geographically distributed data storage system comprises a combined coded chunk generated using an XOR operation.
10. A method, comprising: receiving, by a system comprising a processor and a memory, a request to update a protection set for a first coded chunk in response to detecting deletion of a primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk and the primary data chunk are stored in a geographically distributed data storage system; generating, by the system, a transformation data chunk utilizing a secondary data chunk stored in the geographically distributed data storage system; and generating, by the system, a second coded chunk having an updated protection set, wherein the updated protection set is generated utilizing the transformation data chunk.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: updating, by the system, the first coded chunk with the second coded chunk; and deleting, by the system, the first coded chunk and the transformation data chunk.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the geographically distributed data storage system utilizes zones for storage of one or more chunks of data, and wherein the primary data chunk is stored at a first zone of the zones, the secondary data chunk is stored at a second zone of the zones, and the first coded chunk is stored at a third zone of the zones.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the transformation data chunk is generated at the second zone.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising: transforming, by the system, the transformation data chunk from the second zone to the third zone; and updating, by the system, the first coded chunk with the second coded chunk; and deleting, by the system, the first coded chunk and the transformation data chunk.
15. The method of claim 10, wherein the generating the second coded chunk comprises using an XOR operation to combine the transformation data chunk and the first coded chunk, wherein the first coded chunk comprises a coded version of the primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk is result of a Geo erasure coding, and wherein the geographically distributed data storage system comprises a combined coded chunk generated using the XOR operation.
16. A machine-readable non-transitory storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving a request to update a protection set for a first coded chunk in response to detecting deletion of a primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk and the primary data chunk are stored in a geographically distributed data storage system; generating a transformation data chunk utilizing a secondary data chunk stored in the geographically distributed data storage system; generating a second coded chunk having an updated protection set; and updating the first coded chunk with the second coded chunk.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the updated protection set is generated utilizing the transformation data chunk and from the protection set.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the geographically distributed data storage system utilizes a group of zones to store one or more chunks of data, wherein the primary data chunk is stored at a first zone of the group of zones, the secondary data chunk is stored at a second zone of the group of zones, the first coded chunk is stored at a third zone of the group of zones, and wherein the transformation data chunk is generated at the second zone.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: transforming the transformation data chunk from the second zone to the third zone; and deleting the first coded chunk and the transformation data chunk.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the generating the second coded chunk comprises using an XOR operation to combine the transformation data chunk and the first coded chunk, wherein the first coded chunk comprises a coded version of the primary data chunk, wherein the first coded chunk is result of a Geo erasure coding, and wherein the geographically distributed data storage system comprises a combined coded chunk generated using the XOR operation.
</claims>
</document>
