<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-01-17
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F13/00,G06F16/335,G06F16/907,G06F16/9535,G06Q10/10,G06Q30/02,G06Q50/00,G10L25/48,H04L29/08,H04W4/21
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
LYMBEROPOULOS, DIMITRIOS
LIU JIE
WANG, HE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
50030536
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Accumulation of real-time crowd sourced data for inferring metadata about entities
</title>

<abstract>
Various technologies pertaining to crowd sourcing data about an entity, such as a business, are described. Additionally, technologies pertaining to inferring metadata about the entity based upon crowd sourced data are described. A sensor in a mobile computing device is activated responsive to a user of the mobile computing device checking in at an entity. Metadata, such as occupancy at the entity, noise at the entity, and the like is inferred using the data captured by the sensor. A search result for the entity includes the metadata.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: based upon a query received from a client computing device that is in network communication with the computing system, identifying an entity that is at a geographic location; determining a current state of a parameter of the entity, wherein the current state of the parameter of the entity is determined based upon data generated by sensors of mobile computing devices, wherein the mobile computing devices were at the geographic location when the data was generated; constructing a search result based upon the entity and the determined state of the parameter of the entity, wherein the search result comprises an identity of the entity and the current state of the parameter of the entity; and transmitting the search result for display on a display of the client computing device, wherein the search result, when displayed on the display of the client computing device, depicts the current state of the parameter of the entity.
2. The computing system of claim 1, the acts further comprising: ranking the search result relative to a plurality of other search results based upon the query and the current state of the parameter of the entity.
3. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the query received from the client computing device identifies a geographic region that includes the geographic location.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the data was generated by the sensors within thirty minutes from when the query is received by the computing system.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein determining the current state of the parameter of the entity comprises: identifying values for features of the data generated by the mobile computing devices, wherein the features are indicative of the current state of the parameter of the entity; and providing the values for the features of the data to a classifier, wherein the classifier generates an output based upon the values for the features of the data, and further wherein the output is representative of the current state of the parameter.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the mobile computing devices are mobile telephones.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the parameter is one of music volume, type of music being played at the entity, or level of occupancy at the entity.
8. The computing system of claim 1, the acts further comprising: determining current states of several parameters of the entity based upon the data generated by the mobile computing devices, wherein the search result, when displayed on the display of the client computing device, depicts the current states of the several parameters of the entity.
9. A method performed by a computing system that executes a search engine, the method comprising: based upon a query received from a client computing device that is in network communication with the computing system, identifying an entity, wherein the entity is at a geographic location; determining a current state of a parameter of the entity based upon crowdsourced data generated by sensors of mobile computing devices of users, wherein the mobile computing devices were at the geographic location when the crowdsourced data was generated by the sensors of the mobile computing devices; responsive to determining the current state of the parameter of the entity, generating a search result for the query, wherein the search result comprises an identity of the entity and the determined current state of the parameter of the entity; and causing the search result to be displayed on a display of the client computing device, wherein the search result, when displayed, depicts the identity of the entity and the determined current state of the parameter of the entity.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising ranking the search result relative to several other search results based upon the determined current state of the parameter of the entity.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the crowdsourced data is generated within thirty minutes from when the query is received.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the mobile computing devices are mobile telephones.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the parameter of the entity is one of: a level of occupancy at the entity; a volume of music being played at the entity; a type of music being played at the entity; or an identity of a song being played at the entity.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: prior to determining the current state of the parameter of the entity, discarding other crowdsourced data about the entity previously received from one or more mobile computing devices, wherein the other crowdsourced data is discarded based upon a time when the other crowdsourced data was received.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein determining the current state of the parameter comprises: providing the crowdsourced data to a classifier, wherein the classifier is trained to output classifications that are indicative of states of the parameters of entities; and determining the current state of the parameter of the entity based upon an output of the classifier when the classifier was provided with the crowdsourced data.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the crowdsourced data is based upon audio signals captured by microphones of the mobile computing devices.
17. The method of claim 9, wherein the query comprises data that is indicative of a geographic region that comprises the geographic location.
18. A computing system comprising: a processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: receiving, from several mobile telephones over a window of time, data that is indicative of a current state of a parameter of an entity, wherein the entity is at a geographic location, and further wherein the several mobile telephones are at the geographic entity when the mobile telephones generated the data; determining, based upon the data received from the mobile telephones, the current state of the parameter of the entity; receiving a query from a client computing device, wherein the query comprises an indication of a geographic region that includes the geographic location of the entity; generating a search result based upon the query, wherein the search result comprises an identity of the entity and the current state of the parameter of the entity; and transmitting the search result to the client computing device, wherein the client computing device displays the search result on a display in response to receive of the search result.
19. The computing system of claim 18, the acts further comprising: positioning the search result in a ranked list of search results based upon the current state of the parameter of the entity; and transmitting the ranked list of search results to the client computing device.
20. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the parameter is a level of human chatter at the entity.
</claims>
</document>
