<document>

<filing_date>
2019-12-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W52/06,H04W52/22,H04W52/28,H04W52/34,H04W52/36,H04W52/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SUPPLY COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVLANTES, CHRISTOPHER JOSEPH
NAVARRO, GUSTAVO
RAMASWAMY, VARUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70052708
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for wireless power delivery
</title>

<abstract>
A system for wireless power delivery including one or more transmitters and receivers. A method for wireless power delivery, preferably including: determining transmitter-receiver proximity; determining transmission parameter values, preferably including determining initial parameter values, evaluating candidate transmission parameter values, performing one or more local optimum searches, and/or performing one or more global optimum searches; and transmitting power based on the transmission parameter values.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A method for wireless power transmission, comprising: during a first time period, at a first transmitter, determining a first parameter value set for operating the first transmitter to transmit radio frequency (RF) power; throughout a second time period after the first time period, operating the first transmitter based on the first parameter value set, wherein an RF environment generated by the first transmitter is substantially constant throughout the second time period; during the second time period, at a second transmitter separate from the first transmitter, determining a second parameter value set for operating the second transmitter to transmit RF power, wherein determining the second parameter value set comprises optimizing operation of the second transmitter based on a first objective function associated with power transmission to a first receiver; and after the second time period, concurrently operating the first transmitter based on the first parameter value set and operating the second transmitter based on the second parameter value set.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first parameter value set comprises optimizing operation of the first transmitter based on a second objective function associated with power transmission to the first receiver.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the first and second objective functions are equivalent.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first parameter value set comprises optimizing operation of the first transmitter based on a second objective function associated with power transmission to a second receiver separate from the first receiver.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein the second objective function is further associated with power transmission to the first receiver.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the first objective function is not associated with power transmission to the second receiver.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the second transmitter is closer to the second receiver than to the first receiver.
8. The method of claim 6, further comprising: assigning the first receiver to the first and second transmitters; and assigning the second receiver to the first transmitter and not to the second transmitter.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising, at a networking module: controlling the second transmitter to generate a substantially constant RF environment throughout the first time period; during the first time period, based on assigning the first receiver to the first and second transmitters, controlling the first receiver to optimize operation based on the second objective function; controlling the first transmitter to operate based on the first parameter value set throughout the second time period; and during the second time period, based on assigning the second receiver to the first transmitter, controlling the second receiver to optimize operation based on the first objective function.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first transmitter comprises the networking module.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein a second RF environment generated by the second transmitter is substantially constant throughout the first time period.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the second transmitter transmits substantially zero power throughout the first time period.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein optimizing operation of the second transmitter based on the first objective function comprises: at the second transmitter, transmitting RF power based on a test parameter value set; at the first receiver, receiving RF power transmitted concurrently by the first and second transmitters; determining an amount of power received at the first receiver; and determining the second parameter value set based on the amount of power and the test parameter value set.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein: the first transmitter comprises a first plurality of transmission elements; the first parameter value set is associated with operation of the first plurality of transmission elements; the second transmitter comprises a second plurality of transmission elements; and the second parameter value set is associated with operation of the second plurality of transmission elements.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein: determining the amount of power is performed at the first receiver; and the method further comprises, before operating the second transmitter based on the second parameter value set, at the first receiver, sending a transmission indicative of at least one of: the amount of power; and the second parameter value set.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the second parameter value set is performed according to a global optimization algorithm, comprising, based on the amount of power, determining a value of the first objective function, wherein the first objective function is associated with the global optimization algorithm.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein: the first parameter set comprises at least one of: a first amplitude value and a first phase value; and the second parameter set comprises at least one of: a second amplitude value and a second phase value.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first transmitter comprises a first adaptive antenna array; the first parameter value set is associated with operation of the first adaptive antenna array; the second transmitter comprises a second adaptive antenna array; and the second parameter value set is associated with operation of the second adaptive antenna array.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein: the first objective function is further associated with power transmission to the second receiver; the first objective function comprises a first component associated with the first receiver and a second component associated with the second receiver; and optimizing operation of the second transmitter based on the first objective function comprises determining a set of Pareto efficient parameter value sets with respect to the first and second components of the first objective function, wherein the set of Pareto efficient parameter value sets comprises the second parameter value set.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein: the first component is monotonic with RF power received at the first receiver; and the second component is monotonic with RF power received at the second receiver.
</claims>
</document>
