<document>

<filing_date>
2019-08-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-08-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04W4/40,H04W4/44,H04W4/90,H04W52/02,H04W88/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
T-MOBILE USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEKUTAI, GAVIPHAT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746955
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Idle vehicle communication based on available energy resources
</title>

<abstract>
Idle vehicles have limited energy resources for onboard systems during idle periods. Devices and techniques for processing data generated from sensors on board the vehicle and transmitting the information in the form of a V2X message is accomplished by determining a method for transmitting the message using the lowest energy consuming method available to the vehicle. Where energy resources are below a threshold value the vehicle may store the message until energy resources are at a critical level or may look for new, lower energy transmission methods at intervals until the message may be distributed to another network connected device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A vehicle system, comprising: one or more onboard sensors capable of measuring conditions of the vehicle system; and a V2X controller comprising: one or more processors; memory coupled to the one or more processors, the memory having one or more instructions stored therein, the one or more instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: storing, in the memory, a baseline set of sensor data from the one or more onboard sensors, the baseline set of sensor data representing a nominal idle condition of the vehicle system; receiving and storing in the memory a second set of sensor data from the one or more onboard sensors representing a current state of the vehicle system, the second set of sensor data including an indication of a remaining capacity of a battery onboard the vehicle system; analyzing, by the one or more processors, the second set of sensor data relative to the baseline set of sensor data to infer an event, the event representing a change to the current state of the vehicle system; determining, by the one or more processors, a predicted energy consumption of one or more transmission methods for a communication that includes at least a portion of the second set of sensor data; selecting, by the one or more processors, a selected transmission method of one or more transmission methods for the communication, based at least in part on the predicted energy consumption; determining, by the one or more processors, a priority of the event; and determining, based at least on the priority of the event and the remaining capacity of the battery, whether to transmit a communication via the selected transmission.
2. The vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the event is further identified by detecting one or more of: an impact to the vehicle system greater than a threshold value, an airbag deployment, a fire, an unauthorized or forced entry, an operator or passenger indicated emergency, unauthorized vehicle movement, or a vehicle alarm.
3. The vehicle system of claim 1, wherein the priority of the event is further determined based on one or more of: a presence of an operator, an intervention by an operator at a time of the event, a duration of the event, or a vehicle type associated with the vehicle system.
4. The vehicle system of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: in response to the predicted energy consumption of the selected transmission method being less than or equal to a predetermined threshold, transmitting the communication via the selected transmission method.
5. The vehicle system of claim 1, further storing instructions that, when executed cause the one or more processors to perform acts comprising: in response to the predicted energy consumption of the selected transmission method being greater than a predetermined threshold, identifying one or more connected devices within a predetermined proximity to the vehicle system to receive the communications via a cellular V2X signal.
6. A method for transmitting a vehicle communication, comprising: analyzing, by a processor, sensor information including information indicating remaining energy resources of a vehicle system; determining, by the processor, an energy consumption demand for the vehicle system based on historic energy consumption data stored in a memory of the vehicle system; determining, by the processor, that an event has occurred within a predetermined proximity of a vehicle associated with the vehicle system; assigning, by the processor, a priority to the event, the priority associated with an urgency of transmitting a message to individual nodes of a network associated with the vehicle system; generating, by the processor, the message related to the event; determining, by the processor, a predicted energy consumption of one or more transmission methods for the message, based at least in part on the energy consumption demand; and selecting, by the processor, a transmission method of the one or more transmission methods for the message based at least in part on the predicted energy consumption of the transmission method, the sensor information indicating the remaining energy resources of the vehicle system, and the priority associated with the event.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein determining that an event has occurred further comprises comparing the sensor information to historic baseline sensor data to identify a deviation from the historic baseline sensor data that is greater than a predetermined threshold deviation.
8. The method of claim 6, wherein the generating the message further comprises appending the message with one or more of: the priority associated with the event, sensor data associated with the event, an intended destination of the message, or further instructions for transmitting the message.
9. The method of claim 6, wherein selecting the transmission method further comprises: determining a threshold energy value based at least in part on the historic energy consumption data associated with the vehicle system, wherein the threshold energy value is an amount of energy that the vehicle system is to conserve; and comparing the remaining energy resources available to the vehicle system to the threshold energy value, and wherein, selecting the transmission method is further based at least in part on a comparison of the remaining energy resources to the threshold energy value.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the remaining energy resources is less than the threshold energy value, the method further comprising: determining that no connected device is within a transmission range associated with the transmission method relative to the vehicle system; and storing the message for a time.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the remaining energy resources is less than the threshold energy value, the method further comprising: identifying one or more connected devices within a transmission range associated with the transmission method relative to the vehicle system; determining a predicted energy consumption value of the one or more connected devices to transmit the message to an intended destination; identifying a connected device of the one or more connected devices to transmit the message, the connected device having the least predicted energy consumption value of the one or more connected devices that, do not deplete the remaining energy resources available to below the threshold energy value; and transmitting the message to the connected device.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the intended destination of the message is associated with a safety of the vehicle and the message is intended to be delivered to one or more connected devices in a proximity to the vehicle.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the message is delivered to the connected device within the transmission range of a low energy transmission capability of the vehicle and the message is appended with instructions to relay the message to a remote radio unit for further processing and transmission to additional connected devices within the transmission range of the remote radio unit.
14. A device for controlling communications of a vehicle, comprising: one or more sensors; one or more processors; memory coupled to the one or more processors, the memory including one or more modules that are executable by the one or more processors to: receive sensor information from one or more sensors including at least an indication of a remaining battery capacity available to vehicle resources; determine a predicted energy consumption of one or more transmission methods for a message to a remote network; select a selected transmission method of the one or more transmission methods for the message, based at least in part on the predicted energy consumption; determine, based at least in part on the remaining battery capacity, a time to transmit the message to the remote network; and transmit, at the time and via the selected transmission method, the message to the remote network.
15. The device of claim 14, wherein the remote network is a remote radio unit and wherein the modules are further configured to: generate computer-executable instructions for delivery with the message that cause the message to be transmitted to other vehicles in range of the remote radio unit.
16. The device of claim 14, wherein the modules are further configured to: identify, based on the sensor information and historic data associated with the sensor information, an event to communicate to an external network; and associate, with the message, a priority, the priority based at least in part on the sensor information received from the one or more sensors.
17. The device of claim 14, wherein the modules are further configured to: determine a proximity relative to the vehicle for transmission of the message, based at least in part on the remaining battery capacity available to the vehicle resources; and identify, one or more connected devices within the determined proximity that is capable of receiving the message.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the one or more connected devices are configured to receive the message, the one or more connected devices to include: a second vehicle, another vehicle in motion, a user equipment, a connected infrastructure, or a remote radio unit.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the user equipment is one of a smart watch, a mobile phone, a tablet, or a computing device.
20. The device of claim 18, wherein the connected infrastructure is one of a connected traffic control device, a connected stop sign, a road side sensor, or embedded road sensors.
</claims>
</document>
