<document>

<filing_date>
2017-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-02-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q20/00,G06Q20/02,G06Q40/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SQUARE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOATES, BRIAN
FERN, ADAM JEREMY
KIMBALL, ANDREW
SCOTT, JOHN BRYAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60303215
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Payment processor financing of customer purchases
</title>

<abstract>
A payment processing system receives, from merchant computing devices, transaction information of transactions performed between a plurality of merchants and customers. The merchant computing devices may each execute a merchant application that configures the merchant computing devices as point-of-sale (POS) terminals. The payment processing system receives, from a first POS terminal, a request to finance a purchase between a customer and a first merchant. The payment processing system determines financing terms for the purchase from the transaction information received from the merchant computing devices. The payment processing system sends the financing terms, including an approved financed amount and repayment terms for the approved financed amount, to the first POS terminal for presentation to the customer. In response to receiving an indication of acceptance by the customer of the financing terms, the payment processing system transfers the approved financed amount to an account of the first merchant.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a payment processing system, from a plurality of merchant computing devices associated with merchants, transaction information of transactions performed between the merchants and customers, the merchant computing devices each executing an instance of a merchant application for configuring the merchant computing devices as point-of-sale (POS) terminals, the instances of the merchant application configuring the POS terminals to communicate the transaction information over a network to the payment processing system, the POS terminals including a first POS terminal associated with a first merchant; receiving, from the first POS terminal associated with the first merchant, a request to finance a purchase being made by a customer from the first merchant; determining financing terms for the purchase from the transaction information received from the merchant computing devices, the determining the financing terms including determining an approved financed amount for the customer and repayment terms for the customer for the approved financed amount based on analysis of previous transactions of the customer determined from the received transaction information; transmitting the financing terms to the first POS terminal; receiving, from the first POS terminal, an acceptance by the customer of the financing terms; and transferring the approved financed amount to an account of the first merchant.
2. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, from the first POS terminal a request for modified financing terms; determining, based on the transaction information received from the plurality of merchant computing devices, whether the customer qualifies for the modified financing terms; and sending, to the first POS terminal, modified financing terms for presentation to the customer in the user interface based on determining that the customer qualifies for the modified financing terms, wherein receiving the acceptance of the financing terms comprises receiving acceptance of the modified financing terms.
3. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising, during a subsequent transaction by the customer at the first POS terminal of the first merchant, or at another POS terminal of another merchant, receiving payment for at least a portion of the approved financed amount from the customer by charging a payment instrument of the customer as an additional charge associated with the transaction.
4. The computer-implemented method as recited in claim 1, further comprising receiving payment instrument information for a payment instrument of the customer prior to determining the financing terms; and identifying the customer based at least in part on the payment instrument information.
5. A system comprising; one or more processors; a non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, program the one or more processors to perform operations comprising: receiving, from a plurality of merchant computing devices associated with a plurality of merchants, respectively, transaction information of transactions performed between the plurality of merchants and a plurality of customers, the merchant computing devices having respective instances of a merchant application executable thereon for configuring the plurality of merchant computing devices as a plurality of point-of-sale (POS) terminals, respectively, the respective instances of the merchant application configuring the respective POS terminals to communicate the transaction information over a network to the payment processing system, the respective instances of the merchant application further configuring the POS terminals to communicate requests for financing to the payment processing system, the plurality of POS terminals including a first POS terminal associated with a first merchant; receiving, from the first POS terminal associated with the first merchant, a request to finance a purchase being made from the first merchant by a first customer; determining financing terms for the purchase using the transaction information received from the plurality of merchant computing devices, the determining the financing terms including determining an approved financed amount for the customer and repayment terms for the customer for the approved financed amount based on analysis of previous transactions of the customer determined from the received transaction information; sending, the financing terms to the first POS terminal for presentation to the first customer in a user interface; receiving, from the first POS terminal, via the user interface, an indication of acceptance by the first customer of the financing terms; and transferring the approved financed amount to an account of the first merchant.
6. The system as recited in claim 5, the operations further comprising: receiving, from the first POS terminal a request for modified financing terms; determining, based on the transaction information received from the plurality of merchant computing devices, whether the first customer qualifies for the modified financing terms; and sending, to the first POS terminal, modified financing terms for presentation to the first customer in the user interface based on determining that the first customer qualifies for the modified financing terms, wherein receiving the indication of the acceptance of the financing terms comprises receiving an indication of acceptance of the modified financing terms.
7. The system as recited in claim 5, the operations further comprising: training a machine learning model using the transaction information received from the plurality of merchants for a plurality of customers; and determining the financing terms based at least in part on the machine learning model.
8. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the operation of transferring the approved financed amount to the account of the first merchant is responsive to receiving the indication of acceptance of the financing terms from the first customer.
9. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the operation of transferring the approved financed amount to the account of the first merchant includes transferring the approved financed amount prior to receiving payment from the first customer according to the repayment terms included in the financing terms.
10. The system as recited in claim 5, the operations further comprising: receiving payment instrument information for a payment instrument of the first customer prior to determining the financing terms; and identifying the first customer based at least in part on the payment instrument information.
11. The system as recited in claim 10, the operations further comprising receiving a payment for the approved financed amount from the first customer by charging the payment to the payment instrument of the first customer at a specified interval according to the repayment terms included in the financing terms.
12. The system as recited in claim 5, the operations further comprising, during a subsequent transaction by the first customer at the first POS terminal of the first merchant, or at a second POS terminal of a second merchant, receiving payment for at least a portion of the approved financed amount from the first customer by charging a payment instrument of the first customer as an additional charge of the transaction.
13. The system as recited in claim 5, wherein the merchant application executing on the first POS terminal includes a register function that is configured to receive payment instrument information of the first customer from a payment instrument reader coupled with the first POS terminal, the operations further comprising receiving, from the first POS terminal, the payment instrument information of the first customer read by the payment instrument reader.
14. A method comprising: receiving, by one or more processors of a payment processing system, from a plurality of merchant computing devices associated with a plurality of merchants, respectively, transaction information of transactions performed between the plurality of merchants and a plurality of customers, the merchant computing devices having respective instances of a merchant application executable thereon for configuring the plurality of merchant computing devices as a plurality of point-of-sale (POS) terminals, respectively, the respective instances of the merchant application configuring the respective POS terminals to communicate the transaction information over a network to the payment processing system, the respective instances of the merchant application further configuring the POS terminals to communicate requests for financing to the payment processing system, the plurality of POS terminals including a first POS terminal associated with a first merchant; receiving, by the one or more processors, from the first POS terminal associated with the first merchant, a request to finance a purchase being made from the first merchant by a first customer; determining, by the one or more processors, financing terms for the purchase using the transaction information received from the plurality of merchant computing devices, the determining the financing terms including determining an approved financed amount for the customer and repayment terms for the customer for the approved financed amount based on analysis of previous transactions of the customer determined from the received transaction information; sending, by the one or more processors, the financing terms to the first POS terminal for presentation to the first customer in a user interface; receiving, by the one or more processors, from the first POS terminal, via the user interface, an indication of acceptance by the first customer of the financing terms; and transferring, by the one or more processors, the approved financed amount to an account of the first merchant.
15. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising: receiving, from the first POS terminal a request for modified financing terms; determining, based on the transaction information received from the plurality of merchant computing devices, whether the customer qualifies for the modified financing terms; and sending, to the first POS terminal, modified financing terms for presentation to the customer in the user interface.
16. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising: receiving payment instrument information for a payment instrument of the first customer prior to determining the financing terms; and identifying the first customer based at least in part on the payment instrument information.
17. The method as recited in claim 16, further comprising receiving a payment for the approved financed amount from the first customer by charging the payment to the payment instrument of the first customer at a specified interval according to the repayment terms included in the financing terms.
18. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising, during a subsequent transaction by the first customer at the first POS terminal of the first merchant, or at a second POS terminal of a second merchant, receiving payment for at least a portion of the approved financed amount from the first customer by charging a payment instrument of the first customer as an additional charge of the transaction.
19. The method as recited in claim 14, further comprising: training a machine learning model using the transaction information received from the plurality of merchants for a plurality of customers; and determining the financing terms based at least in part on the machine learning model.
20. The method as recited in claim 14, wherein the merchant application executing on the first POS terminal includes a register function that is configured to receive payment instrument information of the first customer from a payment instrument reader coupled with the first POS terminal, the method further comprising receiving, from the first POS terminal, the payment instrument information of the first customer read by the payment instrument reader.
</claims>
</document>
