<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/30,G06K9/62,G06N3/04,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY
</assignee>

<inventors>
JACOBS, NATHAN
WORKMAN, SCOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69179382
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Network architecture for generating a labeled overhead image
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented process is disclosed for generating a labeled overhead image of a geographical area. A plurality of ground level images of the geographical area is retrieved. A ground level feature map is generated, via a ground level convolutional neural network, based on features extracted from the plurality of ground level images. An overhead image of the geographical area is also retrieved. A joint feature map is generated, via an overhead convolutional neural network based on the ground level feature map and features extracted from the plurality of ground level images. Geospatial function values at a plurality of pixels of the overhead image are estimated based on at least the joint feature map and the overhead image. The plurality of pixels of the overhead image is labeled according to the estimated geospatial function values.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating a labeled overhead image of a geographical area, the process comprising: retrieving a plurality of ground level images of the geographical area; generating, via a ground level convolutional neural network, a ground level feature map based on features extracted from the plurality of ground level images; retrieving an overhead image of the geographical area; generating, via an overhead convolutional neural network, a joint feature map based on the ground level feature map and features extracted from the overhead image; estimating geospatial function values at a plurality of pixels of the overhead image based on at least the joint feature map and the overhead image; and labeling the plurality of pixels of the overhead image according to the estimated geospatial function values, wherein the feature maps associate feature values with geolocations of the respective images.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the joint feature map includes: applying a subset of convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to extract features from the overhead image so as to generate a plurality of overhead feature maps therefrom, each overhead feature map corresponding to a respective convolutional layer; concatenating the plurality of overhead feature maps and the ground level feature map; and applying a remainder of the convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to the concatenated feature maps and the extracted features so as to generate the joint feature map.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the ground level feature map includes: interpolating feature values, via kernel regression, according to one or more kernel bandwidths.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein interpolating feature values includes: determining, for each geolocation, an optimal kernel bandwidth.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining the optimal kernel bandwidth is via applying a kernel convolutional network to the overhead image so as to estimate the optimal kernel bandwidth.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein estimating the geospatial function values includes: applying a semantic labeling architecture to a hypercolumn generated based on the ground level feature map and/or the overhead feature maps and/or and the joint feature map.
7. A system for generating a labeled overhead image of a geographical area, the system comprising: ground level module configured to: retrieve a plurality of ground level images of the geographical area from at least one ground level image source, and generate, via a ground level convolutional neural network, a ground level feature map based on features extracted from the plurality of ground level images; an overhead module configured to: retrieve an overhead image of the geographical area from an overhead image source, and generate, via an overhead convolutional neural network, a joint feature map based on the ground level feature map and features extracted from the overhead image; a prediction module configured to estimate geospatial function values at a plurality of pixels of the overhead image based on at least the joint feature map and the overhead image; and a map generation module configured to label the plurality of pixels of the overhead image according to the estimated geospatial function values, wherein the feature maps associate feature values with geolocations of the respective images.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein generating the joint feature map includes: applying a subset of convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to extract features from the overhead image so as to generate a plurality of overhead feature maps therefrom, each overhead feature map corresponding to a respective convolutional layer; concatenating the plurality of overhead feature maps and the ground level feature map; and applying a remainder of the convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to the concatenated feature maps and the extracted features so as to generate the joint feature map.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein generating the ground level feature map includes: interpolating feature values, via kernel regression, according to one or more kernel bandwidths.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein interpolating feature values includes: determining, for each geolocation, an optimal kernel bandwidth.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein determining the optimal kernel bandwidth is via applying a kernel convolutional network to the overhead image so as to estimate the optimal kernel bandwidth.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein estimating the geospatial function values includes: applying a semantic labeling architecture to a hypercolumn generated based on the ground level feature map and/or the overhead feature maps and/or and the joint feature map.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs that, when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform a method for generating a labeled overhead image of a geographical area, the method comprising: retrieving a plurality of ground level images of the geographical area; generating, via a ground level convolutional neural network, a ground level feature map based on features extracted from the plurality of ground level images; retrieving an overhead image of the geographical area; generating, via an overhead convolutional neural network, a joint feature map based on the ground level feature map and features extracted from the overhead image; estimating geospatial function values at a plurality of pixels of the overhead image based on at least the joint feature map and the overhead image; and labeling the plurality of pixels of the overhead image according to the estimated geospatial function values, wherein the feature maps associate feature values with geolocations of the respective images.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein generating the joint feature map includes: applying a subset of convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to extract features from the overhead image so as to generate a plurality of overhead feature maps therefrom, each overhead feature map corresponding to a respective convolutional layer; concatenating the plurality of overhead feature maps and the ground level feature map; and applying a remainder of the convolutional layers of the overhead convolutional neural network to the concatenated feature maps and the extracted features so as to generate the joint feature map.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein generating the ground level feature map includes: interpolating feature values, via kernel regression, according to one or more kernel bandwidths.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein interpolating feature values includes: determining, for each geolocation, an optimal kernel bandwidth.
17. The method of claim 16, wherein determining the optimal kernel bandwidth is via applying a kernel convolutional network to the overhead image so as to estimate the optimal kernel bandwidth.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein estimating the geospatial function values includes: applying a semantic labeling architecture to a hypercolumn generated based on the ground level feature map and/or the overhead feature maps and/or and the joint feature map.
</claims>
</document>
