<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/28,H04L29/08,H04L29/12
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WEED, JOHN G.
WEEDWARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
WEED, JOHN G.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70050857
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method of providing a controlled interface between devices
</title>

<abstract>
A method of using a controlled interface for managing data communicated between a first device and a second device. The method includes storing a first low-level protocol address and a second low-level protocol address in the controlled interface, receiving from the first device a first signal at a first part of the controlled interface, the first signal having first high-level addressing data, stripping the high-level addressing data to yield a first payload, associating the low-level protocol address with the first payload, transmitting the low-level addressed payload to a second part of the controlled interface, stripping, at the second part of the controlled interface, the low-level protocol address associated with the low-level addressed payload, associating a second high-level addressing data to the payload and transmitting the high-level addressed payload from the second part of the controlled interface to the second device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A controlled interface for managing data communicated between a first device and a second device, the controlled interface comprising: a first controller in a first part of the controlled interface; a first component configured in the first part of the controlled interface, the first component communicating with the first device via a first network connection; a second component communicating with the first component and the first controller; a second controller configured in a second part of the controlled interface; a third component configured in the second part of the controlled interface, the third component communicating with the second device via a second network connection; a fourth component configured in the second part of the controlled interface, the fourth component communicating with the second controller and the third component, wherein: (1) the second component and the fourth component are directly connected via a first connection and a second connection such that a first unidirectional flow of data occurs on the first connection between the second component and the fourth component and a second unidirectional flow of data occurs on the second connection between the second component and the fourth component; and (2) the first component receives first data from the first device, the first controller causes IP protocol metadata associated with the first data to be stripped from the first data, the first controller assigns a low-level address to the first data according to an addressing protocol, and transmits the first data to the fourth component on the first connection according to the low-level address for communication to the fourth component.
2. The controlled interface of claim 1, wherein there is no other connection or communication between the first part of the controlled interface and the second part of the controlled interface other than the first connection and the second connection.
3. The controlled interface of claim 1, wherein the first connection and the second connection are one of wired, fiber optic or wireless.
4. The controlled interface of claim 1, wherein the third component receives second data from the second device, the second controller causes IP protocol metadata associated with the second data to be stripped from the second data, the second controller assigns a second low-level address to the second data according to the addressing protocol, and the fourth component transmits the second data to the second component on the second connection according to the second low-level address for communication to the second component.
5. The controlled interface of claim 1, wherein when a receive port on the second component detects a rise in voltage indicating an intent to transmit data on the receive port, the first controller performs a corrective action.
6. The controlled interface of claim 1, wherein at least one of the first controller and the second controller stores low-level hardware addresses configured to identify at least one or more of an address, a protocol type or port, and a device name.
7. The controlled interface of claim 6, wherein the protocol type comprises at least one or more of Ethernet, TCP, UDP, UDP multicast, or other web service.
8. The controlled interface of claim 6, wherein the address comprises an address used to communicate a data stream from the second component to the fourth component through one or more of the first connection and the second connection.
9. A method of communicating signals between a first device and a second device via a controlled interface, wherein the controlled interface comprises: a first controller in a first part of the controlled interface; a first component configured in the first part of the controlled interface, the first component communicating with the first device via a first network connection; a second component communicating with the first component and the first controller; a second controller configured in a second part of the controlled interface; a third component configured in the second part of the controlled interface, the third component communicating with the second device via a second network connection; a fourth component configured in the second part of the controlled interface, the fourth component communicating with the second controller and the third component, the method comprising: storing a first low-level protocol address for the first device in the first part of the controlled interface and a second low-level protocol address for the second device in the second part of the controlled interface; receiving a first signal from the first device at the first component; communicating the first signal to the second component; transmitting, via the first network connection from the second component to the fourth component, the first signal according to the first low-level protocol address; receiving the first signal at the fourth component to yield a first received signal; communicating the first received signal to the third component; and transmitting the first received signal from the third component to the second device according to the second low-level protocol address.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: receiving a second signal from the second device at the third component; communicating the second signal to the fourth component; transmitting, via the second network connection from the fourth component to the second component, the second signal according to the second low-level protocol address; receiving the second signal at the second component to yield a second received signal; communicating the second received signal to the first component; and transmitting the second received signal from the first component to the first device according to the first low-level protocol address.
11. A method of using a controlled interface for managing data communicated between a first device and a second device, the method comprising: storing a first low-level protocol address in a first part of the controlled interface and a second low-level protocol address in a second part of the controlled interface; receiving a first high-level addressed payload from the first device at the first part of the controlled interface, the first high-level addressed payload having first high-level addressing data; stripping the first high-level addressing data associated with the first high-level addressed payload to yield a second payload; associating the first low-level protocol address with the second payload to yield a third low-level addressed payload; transmitting the third low-level addressed payload over a first direct network connection between the first part of the controlled interface and a second part of the controlled interface, wherein the first part of the controlled interface and the second part of the controlled interface are only connect via one or more direct connections for communicating low-level protocol addressed data; stripping, at the second part of the controlled interface, the first low-level protocol address associated with the third low-level addressed payload to yield a fourth payload; associating a second high-level addressing data to the fourth payload to yield a fifth high-level addressed payload; and transmitting the fifth high-level addressed payload from the second part of the controlled interface to the second device.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving a sixth high-level addressed payload from the second device at the second part of the controlled interface, the sixth high-level addressed payload having second high-level addressing data; stripping the second high-level addressing data associated with the sixth high-level addressed payload to yield a seventh payload; associating the second low-level protocol address with the seventh payload to yield an eighth low-level addressed payload; transmitting the eighth low-level addressed payload over a second direct network connection between the second part of the controlled interface and the first part of the controlled interface; stripping, at the first part of the controlled interface, the second low-level protocol address associated with the eighth low-level addressed payload to yield a ninth payload; associating the first high-level addressing data to the ninth payload to yield a tenth high-level addressed payload; and transmitting the tenth high-level addressed payload from the first part of the controlled interface to the first device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein at least one of the first part of the controlled interface and the second part of the controlled interface stores low-level hardware addresses configured to identify at least one or more of an address, a protocol type, and a device name.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the protocol type comprises at least one or more of Ethernet, TCP, UDP, UDP multicast, or other web service.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the address comprises an address used to communicate a data stream from the first part of the controlled interface to the second part of the controlled interface.
16. The method of claim 11, wherein the first part of the controlled interface is connected to the first device and the second part of the controlled interface is connected to the second device.
17. The method of claim 11, a first connection and a second connection between the first part of the controlled interface and the second low-level protocol address are one of wired, fiber optic or wireless.
</claims>
</document>
