<document>

<filing_date>
2016-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-04-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/33,G06F16/335,G06F16/35
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
INDYK, BENJAMIN
HUNG, KELVIN
BARTOLOME, WARREN
PODGORNY, IGOR A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69902401
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Processing unstructured voice of customer feedback for improving content rankings in customer support systems
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques are disclosed for adjusting a ranking of information content presented to a user based on voice-of-customer feedback. In one embodiment, a user may provide feedback on information content presented to the user. Such feedback may be evaluated to identify at least one topic referenced in the received feedback. If an application determines that the at least one topic is related to topics of the information content, the application determines sentiment regarding the information content based on the feedback, and adjusts a ranking of the information content based on the determined sentiment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for adjusting a ranking of information content of a software application presented to a user based on voice-of-customer feedback, comprising: receiving feedback regarding a content item presented to a user; identifying, based on a probabilistic topic model generated from a content repository associated with the software application, a plurality of topics referenced in unstructured text content included in the feedback, wherein the content item is selected from the content repository; determining, based on the probabilistic topic model, the unstructured text content is related to quality of the content item by separating each of the plurality of topics in the unstructured text content using metadata associated with each identified topic; evaluating structured feedback providing an indication of an experience of the user relative to the content item; determining user sentiment of the content item based on the unstructured text content and structured feedback; adjusting a ranking of the content item based on the user sentiment, wherein adjusting the ranking of the content item comprises: applying a first weight to each topic related to the quality of the content item; applying a second weight to each topic not related to the quality of the content item; and ranking the content item based on the first weight and the second weight; and presenting on a user interface of another user a selection of search results that include the content item, wherein a position of the content item within the selection of search results is based on the ranking of the content item adjusted based on the user sentiment.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the structured feedback comprises either an up vote or a down vote or a star rating that indicates whether the user approves or disapproves of the content item.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the unstructured text content is evaluated using natural language processing to determine a quality of an experience of the user relative to the content item.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: evaluating feedback from a plurality of other users regarding content items associated with a first topic of the plurality of topics referenced in the unstructured text content; identifying the first topic of the plurality of topics as a trending topic based on the feedback from the plurality of other users; selecting content items regarding the trending topic; and presenting the selected content items regarding the trending topic to users.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the probabilistic topic model is a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model or a correlated topics model (CTM).
6. A computer-readable storage medium storing instructions, which when executed on a processor, perform an operation for adjusting a ranking of information content of a software application presented to a user based on voice-of-customer feedback, the operation comprising: receiving feedback regarding a content item presented to a user; identifying, based on a probabilistic topic model generated from a content repository associated with the software application, a plurality of topics referenced in unstructured text content included in the feedback, wherein the content item is selected from the content repository; determining, based on the probabilistic topic model, the unstructured text content is related to quality of the content item by separating each of the plurality of topics in the unstructured text content using metadata associated with each identified topic; evaluating structured feedback providing an indication of an experience of the user relative to the content item; determining user sentiment of the content item based on the unstructured text content and structured feedback; adjusting a ranking of the content item based on the user sentiment, wherein adjusting the ranking of the content item comprises: applying a first weight to each topic related to the quality of the content item; applying a second weight to each topic not related to the quality of the content item; and ranking the content item based on the first weight and the second weight; and presenting on a user interface of another user a selection of search results that include the content item, wherein a position of the content item within the selection of search results is based on the ranking of the content item adjusted based on the user sentiment.
7. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, wherein the structured feedback comprises either an up vote or a down vote or a star rating that indicates whether the user approves or disapproves of the content item.
8. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, wherein the unstructured text content is evaluated using natural language processing to determine a quality of an experience of the user relative to the content item.
9. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, the operation further comprising: evaluating feedback from a plurality of other users regarding content items associated with a first topic of the plurality of topics referenced in the unstructured text content; identifying the first topic of the plurality of topics as a trending topic based on the feedback from the plurality of other users; selecting content items regarding the trending topic; and presenting the selected content items regarding the trending topic to users.
10. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory containing a program which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation for adjusting a ranking of information content of a software application presented to a user based on voice-of-customer feedback, the operation comprising: receiving feedback regarding a content item presented to a user; identifying, based on a probabilistic topic model generated from a content repository associated with the software application, a plurality of topics referenced in unstructured text content included in the feedback, wherein the content item is selected from the content repository; determining, based on the probabilistic topic model, the unstructured text content is related to quality of the content item by separating each of the plurality of topics in the unstructured text content using metadata associated with each identified topic; evaluating structured feedback providing an indication of an experience of the user relative to the content item; determining user sentiment of the content item based on the unstructured text content and structured feedback; adjusting a ranking of the content item based on the user sentiment, wherein adjusting the ranking of the content item comprises: applying a first weight to each topic related to the quality of the content item; applying a second weight to each topic not related to the quality of the content item; and ranking the content item based on the first weight and the second weight; and presenting on a user interface of another user a selection of search results that include the content item, wherein a position of the content item within the selection of search results is based on the ranking of the content item adjusted based on the user sentiment.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the structured feedback comprises either an up vote or a down vote or a star rating that indicates whether the user approves or disapproves of the content item.
12. The system of claim 10, the operation further comprising: evaluating feedback from a plurality of other users regarding content items associated with a first topic of the plurality of topics referenced in the unstructured text content; identifying the first topic of the plurality of topics as a trending topic based on the feedback from the plurality of other users; selecting content items regarding the trending topic; and presenting the selected content items regarding the trending topic to users.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 6, wherein the probabilistic topic model is a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model or a correlated topics model (CTM).
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the unstructured text content is evaluated using natural language processing to determine a quality of an experience of the user relative to the content item.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the probabilistic topic model is a Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) model or a correlated topics model (CTM).
</claims>
</document>
