<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-02-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/174,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NEC CORPORATION OF AMERICA
</assignee>

<inventors>
LEV, TSVI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72040677
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for estimating device pose in a space
</title>

<abstract>
A system for estimating a plurality of device poses in a space, comprising: at least one device, comprising at least one hardware processor connected to at least one sensor and adapted to: in at least one of a plurality of iterations: using at least one model to compute a first estimated device pose in a first identified region of the space in response to at least one input signal captured by the at least one sensor, where the at least one model is one of a plurality of region specific models, each trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space; providing the first estimated device pose to at least one software object executed by the at least one hardware processor to perform a pose-oriented task; receiving at least one other model trained to compute another estimated device pose in a second.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for estimating a plurality of device poses in a space, comprising: at least one device, comprising at least one hardware processor connected to at least one sensor and adapted to: in at least one of a plurality of iterations: using at least one model to compute a first estimated device pose in a first identified region of the space in response to at least one input signal captured by the at least one sensor, where the at least one model is one of a plurality of region specific models, each trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space; providing the first estimated device pose to at least one software object executed by the at least one hardware processor to perform a pose-oriented task; receiving at least one other model trained to compute another estimated device pose in a second identified region of the space and selected from the plurality of region specific models according to the first estimated device pose; and using the at least one other model in at least one other iteration of the plurality of iterations to compute a second estimated device pose in the second identified region of the space.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one model is a neural network.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one hardware processor is adapted to receiving the at least one other model from at least one other hardware processor via at least one digital communication network interface connected to the at least one hardware processor.
4. The system of claim 3, wherein the at least one digital communication network interface is connected to at least one wireless digital communication network.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein the at least one digital communication network interface is selected from a group of network interfaces consisting of: a Bluetooth network interface, a network interface based on at least one protocol of Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers 802.11 (IEEE 802.11) family of protocols, a Global System for Mobile communications (GSM) network interface and a Long Term Evolution (LTE) network interface.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the at least one sensor is at least one imaging sensor; wherein the at least one signal is at least one digital image captured by the at least one imaging sensor; and wherein each of the plurality of region specific models, trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space, is trained with a plurality of images of respective region of the space.
7. The system of claim 6, wherein the plurality of images of respective region of the space comprises a plurality of captured images captured by at least one other imaging sensor.
8. The system of claim 6, wherein the plurality of images of respective region of the space comprises a plurality of synthetic images generated by at least one rendering engine.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the first estimated device pose is relative to a coordinate system of a Global Positioning System (GPS).
10. The system of claim 1, wherein the first estimated device pose is relative to an identified coordinate system of the space.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the space is interior to a building.
12. The system of claim 1, wherein the pose-oriented task comprises controlling movement of the at least one device in the space.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the pose-oriented task comprises computing a path to an identified pose in the space.
14. The system of claim 1, wherein the pose-oriented task comprises displaying at least one pose-related image on an object in the space.
15. A method for estimating a plurality of device poses in a space, comprising executing on at least one hardware processor of a device code adapted to: in at least one of a plurality of iterations: using at least one model to compute a first estimated device pose in a first identified region of the space in response to at least one input signal captured by the at least one sensor, where the at least one model is one of a plurality of region specific models, each trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space; providing the first estimated device pose to at least one software object executed by the at least one hardware processor to perform a pose-oriented task; receiving at least one other model trained to compute another estimated device pose in a second identified region of the space and selected from the plurality of region specific models according to the first estimated device pose; and using the at least one other model in at least one other iteration of the plurality of iterations to compute a second estimated device pose in the second identified region of the space.
16. A system for navigating in a space, comprising: at least one device, comprising at least one hardware processor connected to at least one sensor and adapted to: in each of a plurality of iterations: computing an estimated device pose; and computing at least one navigation instruction according to the estimated device pose; wherein computing the estimated device pose comprises: in at least one of the plurality of iterations: using at least one model to compute a first estimated device pose in a first identified region of the space in response to at least one input signal captured by the at least one sensor, where the at least one model is one of a plurality of region specific models, each trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space; providing the first estimated device pose to at least one software object executed by the at least one hardware processor to perform a pose-oriented task; receiving at least one other model trained to compute another estimated device pose in a second identified region of the space and selected from the plurality of region specific models according to the first estimated device pose; and using the at least one other model in at least one other iteration of the plurality of iterations to compute a second estimated device pose in the second identified region of the space.
17. A system for providing a plurality of region specific models, comprising: at least one hardware processor executing a code adapted to: for each of one or more devices connected to the at least one hardware processor, while the device is moving from a first position of the device in a space to a second position of the device in the space: receiving from the device at least one first message comprising a first estimated position, estimating the first position of the device in the space; analyzing the first estimated position to determine at least one relevant region of the space; transmitting to the device at least one response comprising at least one relevant region specific model associated with the at least one relevant region of the space; and receiving from the device at least one second message comprising a second estimated position, estimating the second position of the device in the space.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the one or more devices is moving from the first position in the space to the second position in the space by being mounted to a vehicle moving in the space.
19. The system of claim 17, wherein at least one of the one or more devices is an autonomous vehicle moving in the space.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the autonomous vehicle is selected from a group of autonomous vehicles consisting of: an autonomous land vehicle, and an autonomous flying drone.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one first message further comprises an estimated orientation, associated with the first estimated position to form a first estimated pose of the device; and wherein the at least one hardware processor is further adapted to execute a code for analyzing the first estimated pose to determine the at least one relevant region of the space.
22. The system of claim 17, wherein the at least one of the one or more devices comprises at least one device hardware processor adapted to: in at least one of a plurality of iterations: using at least one region specific model to compute a first estimated device pose in a first identified region of the space in response to at least one input signal captured by at least one sensor, where the at least one region specific model is one of a plurality of region specific models, each trained to compute an estimated device pose in one of a plurality of regions of the space; providing the first estimated device pose to at least one software object executed by the at least one device hardware processor to perform a pose-oriented task; receiving at least one other region specific model trained to compute another estimated device pose in a second identified region of the space and selected from the plurality of region specific models according to the first estimated device pose; and using the at least one other region specific model in at least one other iteration of the plurality of iterations to compute a second estimated device pose in the second identified region of the space; wherein the first estimated device pose comprises the first estimated position; and wherein the second estimated device pose comprises the second estimated position.
</claims>
</document>
