<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-09-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B17/318,H04B17/364,H04W24/02,H04W24/10,H04W48/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
BRISEBOIS, ARTHUR RICHARD
HUBER, KURT
MIKAN, JEFFREY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65897004
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Utilization of crowd-sourced access point data for 5G or other next generation network
</title>

<abstract>
Utilization of collected crowd-sourced access point quality and selection data for intelligent network selection can optimize access point device selection. A cloud-based application can be utilized in conjunction with a mobile device to build a database of access point quality and thresholds suitable for real-time and other jitter-sensitive services. In one embodiment, a first mobile device can receive access point data associated with a second mobile device. The access point data associated with the second mobile device can then inform the first mobile device on whether to communicate with the access point device or utilized cellular communication.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: based on a first signal from an access point device of a wireless network, determining, by a first mobile device comprising a processor, that the access point device has not previously sent a second signal to the first mobile device; sending, by the first mobile device to a base station device of the wireless network, request data associated with a current threshold of a first signal strength quality of the first signal; in response to first threshold data, associated with the current threshold of the first signal strength quality, matching second threshold data associated with a third signal communicated between a second mobile device and the access point device, receiving, by the first mobile device, the second threshold data associated with a second signal strength quality of the third signal; and in response to the receiving the second threshold data, refreshing, by the first mobile device, the first threshold data in an access point data structure associated with the first mobile device, resulting in refreshed threshold data; and based on the refreshed threshold data, sending, by the first mobile device to the access point device, a fourth signal.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the request data comprises media access control data.
3. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to the refreshing the first threshold data, updating, by the first mobile device, the access point data structure with the first threshold data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the refreshing comprises updating the access point data structure with expiration data associated with the current signal strength quality for use in determining a timeframe for selection of the access point device for a later communication.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the sending the fourth signal comprises sending the fourth signal to a cloud-based access point database service device.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the first mobile device, a request to collect jitter data associated with the first signal.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, by the first mobile device, the second threshold data to the base station device for subsequent use in selection of the access point device by a third mobile device.
8. A system, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a first signal from an access point device of a wireless network, determining that the access point device has not previously sent a second signal; in response to the determining, sending, to a base station device of the wireless network, request data associated with a current threshold of a first signal strength quality of the first signal; in response to first threshold data, associated with the current threshold of the first signal strength quality, matching second threshold data associated with a third signal communicated between a second mobile device and the access point device, receiving the second threshold data associated with a second signal strength quality of the third signal; and in response to the receiving the second threshold data, refreshing the first threshold data in an access point data structure associated, resulting in refreshed threshold data; and based on the refreshed threshold data, sending a fourth signal to the access point device.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the request data comprises service set identifier data associated with the access point device.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the refreshing the first threshold data comprises updating the access point data structure with expiration data associated with the second signal strength quality for use in determining a timeframe to select the access point device for a communication.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to an indication that the second signal strength quality has been reduced from a first value to a second value lower than the first value, reducing a timeframe to select the access point device from a first time to a second time less than the first time.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the operations further comprise: in response to an indication that the second signal strength quality has been increased from a first value to a second value higher than the first value, increasing a timeframe to select the access point device to an increased timeframe greater than the timeframe.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the second signal strength quality is based on jitter data of a jitter associated with the first signal.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the first signal from the access point device comprises media access control address data and service set identifier data associated with the access point device.
15. A machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: based on a first signal from an access point device of a wireless network, facilitating determining that the access point device has not previously sent a second signal, the second signal being different than the first signal; in response to the facilitating the determining, facilitating sending, to a base station device of the wireless network, request data associated with a current threshold of a first signal strength quality of the first signal; based on the first threshold data, associated with the current threshold of the first signal strength quality, matching second threshold data associated with a third signal communicated between a mobile device and the access point device, facilitating receiving the second threshold data associated with a second signal strength quality of the third signal; and in response to the facilitating the receiving of the second threshold data, updating the first threshold data in an access point data structure associated, resulting in updated threshold data; and based on the updated threshold data, facilitating sending a fourth signal to the access point device.
16. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the updating comprises updating expiration data indicative of a length of time of the second signal strength quality.
17. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the updating the first threshold data comprises updating the access point data structure with the expiration data.
18. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the second signal strength quality is based on jitter data of a jitter associated with the first signal.
19. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 18, wherein the operations further comprise: based on the jitter, determining that there is a mismatch between the jitter and a received signal strength indicator.
20. The machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the second signal strength quality is based on a received signal strength associated with a wireless fidelity service set identifier.
</claims>
</document>
