<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L15/05,G10L15/08,H04M3/22,H04M3/42
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHANNAKESHAVA, GIRISH MALLENAHALLY
WHITE, MATTHEW L.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783517
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for redaction of sensitive audio events of call recordings
</title>

<abstract>
A call center records a voice conversation between a call center agent and a customer. A call recording of the voice conversation is transcribed. When a customer provides a call center agent with sensitive information, the sensitive information is detected from the transcribed voice conversation. Upon detection of the sensitive information, the sensitive information is redacted from the call recording. Alternatively, when sensitive information is detected, a notification is provided to the call center agent to pause and resume the recording.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine implemented method comprising: receiving intent data including at least one keyword of at least one intent of a first user; storing the intent data representing the at least one keyword of the at least one intent of the first user; obtaining audio data representing a recording of a conversation between the first user and a second user; processing the audio data to generate transcript data representing a transcription of the recording of the conversation; processing the transcript data using a portion of the intent data to identify sensitive data representing sensitive information associated with the first user; generating pause notification data based on the sensitive data; generating resume notification data based on the sensitive data; and redacting a portion of the audio data from the audio data based on a first response to the pause notification and a second response to the resume notification to generate redacted audio data representing a redacted version of the recording of the conversation.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein redacting the sensitive data from the audio data is further based on start timestamp data and stop timestamp data, wherein the start timestamp data represents a start time of the sensitive data and the stop timestamp data represents a stop time of the sensitive data.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein processing the transcript data using the portion of the intent data is processed via a natural language processing module comprising a detecting module configured to detect intents from the transcript data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the audio data is obtained via a smartphone module comprising a recording module configured to record conversations conducted via the smartphone module.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein redacting the sensitive data from the audio data comprises replacing a portion of the audio data associated with the sensitive data with a redaction audio message.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the audio data is a relative real-time operation of obtaining the audio data and processing the audio data to generate the transcript data is a relative real-time generation of the transcript data.
7. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory coupled to the at least one processor, the at least one memory having stored therein instructions which when executed by any set of the at least one processor, perform a process, the process including: receiving intent data including at least one keyword of at least one intent of a first user; storing the intent data representing the at least one keyword of the at least one intent of the first user; obtaining audio data representing a recording of a conversation between the first user and the second user; processing the audio data to generate transcript data representing a transcription of the recording of the conversation; processing the transcript data using a portion of the intent data to identify sensitive data representing sensitive information associated with the first user; generating pause notification data based on the sensitive data; generating resume notification data based on the sensitive data; and redacting a portion of the audio data from the audio data based on a first response to the pause notification and a second response to the resume notification to generate redacted audio data representing a redacted version of the recording of the conversation.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein redacting the sensitive data from the audio data is further based on start timestamp data and stop timestamp data, wherein the start timestamp data represents a start time of the sensitive data and the stop timestamp data represents a stop time of the sensitive data.
9. The system of claim 7, wherein processing the transcript data using the portion of the intent data is processed via a natural language processing module comprising a detecting module configured to detect intents from the transcript data.
10. The system of claim 7, wherein obtaining the audio data is obtained via a smartphone module comprising a recording module configured to record conversations conducted via the smartphone module.
11. The system of claim 7, wherein redacting the sensitive data from the audio data comprises replacing a portion of the audio data associated with the sensitive data with a redaction audio message.
12. The system of claim 7, wherein obtaining the audio data is a relative real-time operation of obtaining the audio data and processing the audio data to generate the transcript data is a relative real-time generation of the transcript data.
13. A computing system implemented method comprising: receiving intent data including at least one keyword of at least one intent of a first user; storing the intent data representing the at least one keyword of the at least one intent of the first user; obtaining audio data representing a recording of a conversation between the first user and a second user; processing the audio data to generate transcript data representing a transcription of the recording of the conversation; processing the transcript data using a portion of the intent data to identify sensitive data representing sensitive information associated with the first user; generating pause notification data based on the sensitive data; generating resume notification data based on the sensitive data; and redacting a portion of the audio data from the audio data based on a first response to the pause notification and a second response to the resume notification to generate redacted audio data representing a redacted version of the recording of the conversation.
14. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein redacting the portion of the audio data from the audio data is based on start timestamp data and stop timestamp data, wherein the start timestamp data is generated based on the response to the pause notification, the start timestamp data representing a time of the first response, and wherein the stop timestamp data is generated based on the response to the resume notification, the stop timestamp data representing a time of the second response.
15. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein processing the transcript data using the portion of the intent data is processed via a natural language processing module comprising a detecting module configured to detect intents from the transcript data.
16. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein obtaining the audio data is obtained via a smartphone module comprising a recording module configured to record conversations conducted via the smartphone module.
17. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein the first response to the pause notification data is delivered from a smartphone module.
18. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein redacting the portion of the audio data from the audio data comprises replacing the portion of the audio data with a redaction audio message.
19. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein obtaining the audio data is a relative real-time operation of obtaining the audio data and processing the audio data to generate the transcript data is a relative real-time generation of the transcript data.
20. The computing system implemented method of claim 13, wherein the conversation between the first user and the second user is associated with a data management system.
</claims>
</document>
