<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A01B63/02,A01B69/04,A01B79/00,B60C23/00,B60K35/00,B60W10/20,B60W10/30,B60W30/00,B62D15/02,B62D6/00,E02F9/20,G01C11/02,G01C21/20,G01C21/30,G01C21/36,G05D1/02,G06F16/29,G06T17/05
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AGJUNCTION
</assignee>

<inventors>
GATTIS, JOSHUA M.
RAMM, ANDREAS F.
DANG, TRI M.
DUMBLE, STEVEN J.
MADSEN, TOMMY ERTBOLLE
MEDAGODA, ERAN D. B.
ARAIN, BILAL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64457096
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Three-dimensional terrain mapping
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present disclosure relate generally to generating and utilizing three-dimensional terrain maps for vehicular control. Other embodiments may be described and/or claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A terrain mapping system for a vehicle, the terrain mapping system comprising: a processor; one or more sensors on the vehicle, the one or more sensors coupled to the processor and arranged to collect three-dimensional terrain data; a digital camera on the vehicle, the digital camera coupled to the processor and arranged to capture terrain image data; a steering control system coupled to the processor; and memory coupled to the processor and storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the terrain mapping system to perform operations comprising: determining two or more positions of the vehicle in a field at two or more times, respectively, based on location data from a positioning system associated with the vehicle; identifying a first three-dimensional terrain map associated with a first position of the two or more positions; determining a first path for the vehicle based on the first three-dimensional terrain map, and transmitting first control data based on the first path to the steering control system; identifying a second three-dimensional terrain map associated with a second position of the two or more positions and further based on information about terrain in front of the vehicle, captured by the one or more sensors and the digital camera, as the vehicle is driven and steered along the first path; wherein the second three-dimension map is based on data received from the one or more sensors, data received from the digital camera, and the location data from the positioning system, and includes at least: a ground surface topography for a section of terrain; and a topography of vegetation on the section of terrain; determining a second different path for the vehicle based on the ground surface topography of the section of terrain and the topography of the vegetation of the section of terrain, and transmitting second control data based on the second path to the steering control system; and generating a two-dimensional representation of the second path based on the second three-dimensional terrain map.
2. The terrain mapping system of claim 1, wherein the vehicle comprises a first vehicle, and wherein the first three-dimensional terrain map is based on data from one or more sensors on a second vehicle.
3. An apparatus including a tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by a terrain mapping system, cause the terrain mapping system to perform operations comprising: determining two or more positions of a vehicle in a section of terrain at two or more times, respectively, based on location data from a positioning system associated with the vehicle; identifying a first three-dimensional terrain map associated with a first position of the two or more positions; determining a first path for the vehicle based on the first three-dimensional terrain map; identifying a second three-dimensional terrain map associated with a second position of the two or more positions and further based on information about terrain in front of the vehicle, captured by one or more sensors on the vehicle and a digital camera on the vehicle, as the vehicle is driven and steering along the first path, wherein the second three-dimensional map is further based on data received from the positioning system, and includes at least: a ground surface topography for the section of terrain; and a topography of vegetation on the section of terrain; determining a second different path for the vehicle based on the ground surface topography of the section of terrain and the topography of the vegetation of the section of terrain; and generating a two-dimensional representation of the second path based on the second three-dimensional terrain map.
4. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the second three-dimensional terrain map includes a plurality of objects within the section of terrain, and wherein the operations further comprise presenting a respective visual indicator on the two-dimensional representation for each respective object representing the object is traversable by the vehicle.
5. The apparatus of claim 3, further comprising: a display screen coupled to the terrain mapping system, wherein the operations further comprise causing the terrain mapping system to display the two-dimensional representation on the display screen.
6. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise transmitting an electronic communication comprising the two-dimensional representation to a vehicle control system.
7. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the data received from the positioning system comprises global navigation satellite system (GNSS) data or local positioning system (LPS) data.
8. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the data from the one or more sensors includes one or more of: radar sensor data, lidar sensor data, and imaging data.
9. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the two-dimensional representation indicates a height of a portion of the vehicle above the ground surface.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise determining a depth of tracks made by the vehicle based on a change in the height of the portion of the vehicle above the ground surface.
11. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise determining a height of a portion of the vegetation on the terrain above the ground surface.
12. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the operations further comprise modifying a pre-existing feature of the first three-dimensional terrain map based on the ground surface topography for the section of terrain and the topography of vegetation on the section of terrain.
13. The apparatus of claim 3, wherein the two-dimensional representation indicates a level of moisture in the section of terrain.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein identifying the level of moisture in the section of terrain includes identifying a first level of moisture in a first portion of the section of terrain, and identifying a second level of moisture in a second portion of the section of terrain, and wherein the first level of moisture is different from the second level of moisture.
15. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein identifying the level of moisture in the section of terrain includes identifying a body of water in the section of terrain.
16. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein identifying the level of moisture in the section of terrain includes determining whether the vehicle is capable of traversing the body of water.
17. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein identifying the level of moisture in the section of terrain includes determining a rate of flow of water through the body of water.
18. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein identifying the level of moisture in the section of terrain includes determining a depth of the body of water.
19. The apparatus of claim 15, wherein the two-dimensional representation indicates a path for the vehicle to circumvent the body of water.
20. A method comprising: determining two or more positions of a vehicle in a section of terrain at two or more times, respectively, based on location data from a positioning system associated with the vehicle; identifying a first three-dimensional terrain map associated with a first position of the two or more positions; determining a first path for the vehicle based on the first three-dimensional terrain map; identifying a second three-dimensional terrain map associated with a second position of the two or more positions and further based on information about terrain in front of the vehicle, captured by one or more sensors on the vehicle and a digital camera on the vehicle, as the vehicle is driven and steering along the first path, wherein the second three-dimensional map is further based on data received from the positioning system, and includes at least: a ground surface topography for a section of terrain; and a topography of vegetation on the section of terrain; determining a second different path for the vehicle based on the ground surface topography of the section of terrain and the topography of the vegetation of the section of terrain; and displaying information about the second path on an electronic display.
</claims>
</document>
