<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01S5/00,G01S5/02,G01S5/12,G01S5/16,H04W4/02,H04W4/029,H04W4/21,H04W64/00,H04W76/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIX, JEREMY
MEREDITH, SHELDON KENT
THOMAS, CHRISTINE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53044221
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wirelessly receiving information related to a mobile device at which another mobile device is pointed
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for wirelessly receiving, at a mobile device, information related to another mobile device determined to be in a line of sight relative to the mobile device, are presented. In an aspect, a method includes, determining by a first mobile device, a location of a mobile object determined to be in a line of sight relative to the first mobile device, and wirelessly receiving descriptive information associated with a second mobile device having a location substantially corresponding to the location of the mobile object.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A first mobile device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining an approximate location of a target mobile object determined to be in a line of sight relative to the first mobile device; obtaining image data representative of the target mobile object; determining a physical attribute of the target mobile object based on the image data; broadcasting a request for descriptive information associated with the target mobile object, wherein the request comprises location information representing the approximate location of the target mobile object and attribute information that identifies the physical attribute; and receiving the descriptive information from a second mobile device physically coupled to the target mobile object based on reception of the request by the second mobile device in response to the broadcasting, a first determination that the approximate location corresponds to a current location of the second mobile device, and a second determination that the target mobile object reflects the physical attribute.
2. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the first determination and the second determination are made by the second mobile device based on the reception of the request.
3. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the current location was determined with greater precision relative to the approximate location.
4. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the first determination that the approximate location corresponds to the current location of the second mobile device is based on the approximate location and the current location being determined to be separated by less than a defined distance.
5. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: rendering the descriptive information at the first mobile device based on the receiving.
6. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, in response to the receiving: initiating displaying of the descriptive information via a display of the first mobile device, wherein the first mobile device is a wearable optics device configured to be worn relative to an eye of a wearer and the display is configured to be positioned near the eye.
7. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the descriptive information is variable based on a current context associated with the target mobile object.
8. The first mobile device of claim 1, wherein the determining the approximate location of the target mobile object comprises: determining a location of the first mobile device; determining an orientation of the first mobile device; determining a distance between the first mobile device and the target mobile object; and determining the approximate location of the target mobile object based on a vector determined based on the location, the orientation, and the distance.
9. A method, comprising: determining, by a first mobile device comprising a processor, an approximate location of a target mobile object determined to be in a line of sight relative to the first mobile device; capturing, by the first mobile device, image data representative of the target mobile object; determining, by the first mobile device, a physical attribute of the target mobile object based on the image data; broadcasting, by the first mobile device, a request for descriptive information associated with the target mobile object, wherein the request comprises the approximate location of the target mobile object and attribute information that identifies the physical attribute; and receiving, by the first mobile device, the description information from a second mobile device physically coupled to the target mobile object based on reception of the request by the second mobile device in response to the broadcasting, a first determination that the approximate location corresponds to a current location of the second mobile device, and a second determination that the target mobile object reflects the physical attribute.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first determination that the approximate location corresponds to the current location of the second mobile device is based on the approximate location and the current location being separated by less than a defined distance.
11. The method of claim 9, further comprising: rendering, by the first mobile device, the descriptive information at the first mobile device based on the receiving.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising: initiating, by the first mobile device, display of the descriptive information via a display of the first mobile device, wherein the first mobile device is a wearable optics device configured to be worn relative to an eye of a wearer and the display is configured to be positioned over the eye.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the descriptive information is variable based on a current context associated with the target mobile object.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the determining the approximate location of the target mobile object comprises: determining a location of the first mobile device; determining an orientation of the first mobile device; determining a distance between the first mobile device and the target mobile object; and determining the approximate location of the target mobile object based on a vector determined based on the location, the orientation, and the distance.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a first mobile device, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining an approximate location of a target mobile object determined to be in a line of sight relative to the first mobile device; receiving image data representative of the target mobile object; determining a physical attribute of the target mobile object based on the image data; broadcasting a request for descriptive information associated with the target mobile object, wherein the request comprises location information representing the approximate location of the target mobile object and attribute information that identifies the physical attribute; and receiving the descriptive information from a second mobile device physically coupled to the target mobile object based on reception of the request by the second mobile device in response to the broadcasting, a first determination that the approximate location corresponds to a current location of the second mobile device, and a second determination that the target mobile object comprises the physical attribute.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the first determination and the second determination are made by the second mobile device based on the reception of the request.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the current location was determined with greater precision relative to the approximate location.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: rendering the descriptive information at the first mobile device based on the receiving.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: Initiating display of the descriptive information via a display of the first mobile device, wherein the first mobile device is a wearable optics device configured to be worn relative to an eye of a wearer and the display is configured to be positioned over the eye.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the descriptive information is variable based on a current context associated with the target mobile object.
</claims>
</document>
