<document>

<filing_date>
2017-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-23
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-04-07
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01F1/704,G01F1/708,G01F15/06,G01K1/02,G01K3/10,G06Q10/10,G06Q50/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HARPUR, LIAM S.
BRADY, NIALL
PALMES, PAULITO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
63710892
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Environmental factor assessment by a non-intrusive sensor in a fluid transfer pumping system
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments for assessing energy usage efficiency in a fluid transfer pumping system in a cloud computing environment by a processor. A rate of temperature decay may be determined over a selected time period using a temperature signal collected by one or more non-intrusive Internet of Things (IoT) sensors located at one or more selected positions of a piping network in the fluid transfer pumping system so as to determine energy efficiency in the fluid transfer pumping system associated with a heating service, a cooling service, or combination thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for assessing energy usage efficiency in a fluid transfer pumping system in a cloud computing environment by a processor, comprising: determining a rate of temperature decay over a selected time period using a temperature signal collected by one or more non-intrusive Internet of Things (IoT) sensors located at one or more selected positions of a piping network in the fluid transfer pumping system so as to determine energy efficiency in the fluid transfer pumping system associated with a heating service, a cooling service, or combination thereof.
2. The method of claim 1, further including continuously sampling temperature data over the selected time period by the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors are in an IoT computing network.
3. The method of claim 1, further including comparing the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
4. The method of claim 1, further including determining the rate of temperature decay is above or below a defined energy efficiency threshold based on comparing the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
5. The method of claim 1, further including: generating an alert indicating energy waste upon the rate of temperature decay being above a defined energy efficiency threshold; or generating an alert indicating acceptable energy usage upon the rate of temperature decay being below a defined energy efficiency threshold.
6. The method of claim 1, further including identifying one or more locations in the piping network having energy waste according to the rate of temperature decay determined from sampled temperature data at the one or more locations.
7. The method of claim 1, further including providing the energy output or the rate of temperature decay to a user via an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) for one or more locations in the piping network, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors include at least an infra-red camera.
8. A system for assessing energy usage efficiency in a fluid transfer pumping system in a cloud computing environment, comprising: one or more computers with executable instructions that when executed cause the system to: determine a rate of temperature decay over a selected time period using a temperature signal collected by one or more non-intrusive Internet of Things (IoT) sensors located at one or more selected positions of a piping network in the fluid transfer pumping system so as to determine energy efficiency in the fluid transfer pumping system associated with a heating service, a cooling service, or combination thereof.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further continuously sample temperature data over the selected time period by the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors are in an IoT computing network.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further compare the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further determine the rate of temperature decay is above or below a defined energy efficiency threshold based on comparing the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
12. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: generate an alert indicating energy waste upon the rate of temperature decay being above a defined energy efficiency threshold; or generate an alert indicating acceptable energy usage upon the rate of temperature decay being below a defined energy efficiency threshold.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the executable instructions further: identify one or more locations in the piping network having energy waste according to the rate of temperature decay determined from sampled temperature data at the one or more locations, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors include at least an infra-red camera; and provide the energy output or the rate of temperature decay to a user via an interactive graphical user interface (GUI).
14. A computer program product for energy usage efficiency in a fluid transfer pumping system in a cloud computing environment by a processor, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer-readable storage medium having computer-readable program code portions stored therein, the computer-readable program code portions comprising: an executable portion that determines a rate of temperature decay over a selected time period using a temperature signal collected by one or more non-intrusive Internet of Things (IoT) sensors located at one or more selected positions of a piping network in the fluid transfer pumping system so as to determine energy efficiency in the fluid transfer pumping system associated with a heating service, a cooling service, or combination thereof.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, further including an executable portion that continuously samples temperature data over the selected time period by the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors are in an IoT computing network.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, further including an executable portion that compares the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, further including an executable portion that determines the rate of temperature decay is above or below a defined energy efficiency threshold based on comparing the determined rate of temperature decay with an expected rate of temperature decay.
18. The computer program product of claim 14, further including an executable portion that: generates an alert indicating energy waste upon the rate of temperature decay being above a defined energy efficiency threshold; or generates an alert indicating acceptable energy usage upon the rate of temperature decay being below a defined energy efficiency threshold.
19. The computer program product of claim 14, further including an executable portion that: identifies one or more locations in the piping network having energy waste according to the rate of temperature decay determined from sampled temperature data at the one or more locations, wherein the one or more non-intrusive IoT sensors include at least an infra-red camera; and provides the energy output or the rate of temperature decay to a user via an interactive graphical user interface (GUI) for the one or more locations in the piping network.
</claims>
</document>
