<document>

<filing_date>
2019-05-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-05-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M15/00,H04W52/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
DI COCCO, ANTONIO
MIGLIACCIO, CRESCENZO
RUTIGLIANO, SIMONE
BONTEMPI, VALERIO
MANGANIELLO, UMBERTO
CARUGNO, GIANLUCA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72516997
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Energy saving control of mobile equipment
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer program product, and network system for controlling an energy consumption of mobile equipment adapted to communicate over a telecommunication network are provided. The embodiment may include entering an energy saving mode for a mobile equipment in response to an energy saving activation. The embodiment may also include receiving inbound information to be transmitted to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode. The embodiment may further include verifying a transmission enablement of the inbound information in response to said receiving the inbound information according to an energy saving policy based on one or more category indicators of the inbound information. The embodiment may also include controlling a transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode according to a result of said verifying the transmission enablement.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for controlling energy consumption of mobile equipment for communication over a telecommunication network, wherein the method comprises: entering, by a network system of the telecommunication network, an energy saving mode for mobile equipment in response to an energy saving activation; receiving, by the network system, inbound information to be transmitted to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode; verifying, by the network system, a transmission enablement of the inbound information in response to receiving the inbound information according to an energy saving policy based on one or more category indicators of the inbound information; controlling, by the network system, a transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode according to a result of verifying the transmission enablement; buffering, by the network system, the inbound information in response to the negative result of verifying the transmission enablement; exiting, by the network system, the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to an energy saving deactivation; and transmitting, by the network system, the inbound information being buffered to the mobile equipment in response to said exiting the energy saving mode.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: controlling, by the network system, the transmission of the inbound information to be enabled or postponed in response to a positive result or a negative result, respectively, of verifying the transmission enablement.
3. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: collecting, by the network system, energy consumption data relating to an energy consumption impact on the mobile equipment of one or more communication events having involved the transmission of information from the network system to the mobile equipment; and determining, by the network system, the energy saving policy according to the energy consumption data.
4. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: collecting, by the network system, behavioral data relating to a behavior of a user of the mobile equipment with respect to one or more communication events having involved the transmission of information from the network system to the mobile equipment; and determining, by the network system, the energy saving policy according to the behavioral data.
5. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: receiving, by the network system, customization data for the energy saving policy from the mobile equipment; and determining, by the network system, the energy saving policy according to the customization data.
6. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: transmitting, by the network system, an energy saving report based on said controlling the transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment; receiving, by the network system, feedback data relating to the energy saving report from the mobile equipment; and updating, by the network system, the energy saving policy of the mobile equipment according to the feedback data.
7. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: receiving, by the mobile equipment, an activation or deactivation request of the energy saving mode being entered manually by a user of the mobile equipment; transmitting, by the mobile equipment, the activation or deactivation request to the network system; and entering or exiting, by the network system, the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to the activation or deactivation request.
8. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: monitoring, by the mobile equipment, one or more status indicators relating to the mobile equipment and one or more status parameters, wherein one or more status parameters comprise battery level, outside temperature, time, date and geographical zone; generating, by the mobile equipment, an activation or deactivation request of the energy saving mode according to the status indicators; transmitting, by the mobile equipment, the activation or deactivation request to the network system; and entering or exiting, by the network system, the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to the activation/deactivation request.
9. The method according to claim 1, wherein the method comprises: monitoring, by the mobile equipment, one or more status indicators relating to the mobile equipment and one or more status parameters, wherein one or more status parameters comprise battery level, outside temperature, time, date and geographical zone; transmitting, by the mobile equipment, the status indicators to the network system; generating, by the network system, an activation or deactivation request of the energy saving mode according to the status indicators; and entering or exiting, by the network system, the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to the activation/deactivation request.
10. The method according to claim 1, wherein the category indicators are indicative of voice, message or data.
11. The method according to claim 1, wherein the energy saving mode comprises a plurality of energy saving levels, the energy saving policy depending on the energy saving levels.
12. A computer program product for controlling energy consumption of mobile equipment for communication over a telecommunication network, the computer program product comprising a non-transitory computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a network system of the telecommunication network to cause the network system to perform a method comprising: entering an energy saving mode for mobile equipment in response to an energy saving activation; receiving inbound information to be transmitted to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode; verifying a transmission enablement of the inbound information in response to receiving the inbound information according to an energy saving policy based on one or more category indicators of the inbound information; controlling, by the network system, a transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode according to a result of verifying the transmission enablement; buffering, by the network system, the inbound information in response to the negative result of verifying the transmission enablement; exiting, by the network system, the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to an energy saving deactivation; and transmitting, by the network system, the inbound information being buffered to the mobile equipment in response to said exiting the energy saving mode.
13. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein the computer program product comprises: controlling the transmission of the inbound information to be enabled or postponed in response to a positive result or a negative result, respectively, of verifying the transmission enablement.
14. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein the computer program product comprises: collecting energy consumption data relating to an energy consumption impact on the mobile equipment of one or more communication events having involved the transmission of information from the network system to the mobile equipment; and determining the energy saving policy according to the energy consumption data.
15. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein the computer program product comprises: collecting behavioral data relating to a behavior of a user of the mobile equipment with respect to one or more communication events having involved the transmission of information from the network system to the mobile equipment; and determining the energy saving policy according to the behavioral data.
16. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein the computer program product comprises: receiving customization data for the energy saving policy from the mobile equipment; and determining the energy saving policy according to the customization data.
17. The computer program product according to claim 12, wherein the computer program product comprises: transmitting an energy saving report based on said controlling the transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment; receiving feedback data relating to the energy saving report from the mobile equipment; and updating the energy saving policy of the mobile equipment according to the feedback data.
18. A network system of a telecommunication network for controlling an energy consumption of mobile equipment for communication over the telecommunication network, wherein the network system comprises: a circuit for entering an energy saving mode for mobile equipment in response to an energy saving activation; a circuit for receiving inbound information to be transmitted to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode; a circuit for verifying a transmission enablement of the inbound information in response to receiving the inbound information according to an energy saving policy based on one or more category indicators of the inbound information; a circuit for controlling a transmission of the inbound information to the mobile equipment in the energy saving mode according to a result of verifying the transmission enablement; a circuit for buffering the inbound information in response to the negative result of verifying the transmission enablement; a circuit for exiting the energy saving mode for the mobile equipment in response to an energy saving deactivation; and a circuit for transmitting the inbound information being buffered to the mobile equipment in response to said exiting the energy saving mode.
</claims>
</document>
