<document>

<filing_date>
2016-10-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-10-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/211,G06F40/30,G06N20/00,G06N5/02,G06N5/04,G06N7/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
ALLEN, CORVILLE O.
FREED, ANDREW R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61828906
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine learning of analogic patterns
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments relate to a system, program product, and method for use with an intelligent computer platform to decipher analogical phrases. A phrase is parsed into a set of terms to reveal an analogical pattern. The set of terms are categorized according to syntactic placement and each term is placed into two or more categories according to word type patterns in the phrase to produce metadata. The metadata is matched to outcome metadata generated from a set of outcomes produced from data storage and a set of grammatical data is generated for each potential outcome. A statistical model is trained, whereby the training includes weighing and ranking each potential outcome according to degree of congruence with the syntactic placement and word type patterns of the phrase. A highest outcome is selected, the highest outcome being the potential outcome with the highest rank and a confidence level data metric is then applied.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system comprising: a processing unit operatively coupled to memory; an artificial intelligence (AI) platform, in communication with the processing unit, the AI platform to employ machine learning to support natural language processing and interpretation, the AI platform comprising an analogy detection engine to: parse received content comprising an analogical phrase into terms to reveal an analogical pattern; categorize the terms according to syntactic placement and place the terms into two or more categories according to word type patterns in the phrase to produce metadata; match the metadata to outcome metadata generated from one or more outcomes; generate grammatical data for each of the one or more outcomes; apply a reasoning algorithm to the one or more outcomes according to a degree of congruence with the syntactic placement and word type patterns of the phrase, the algorithm indicating an extent to which the outcomes are inferred by the received content; weigh the one or more outcomes against a model, the model capturing an effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm; apply a confidence level data metric to the one or more outcomes, the confidence level data metric associated with the effectiveness of the one or more outcomes determined by the reasoning algorithm; and responsive to the application confidence metric, train the AI platform with the corresponding outcome.
2. The computer system of claim 1, wherein deciphering a phrase upon activation further includes the analogy detection engine to: ascertain a low confidence level data metric attributed to a highest outcome, wherein the highest outcome is selected from the one or more outcomes responsive to the effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm captured by the model; send the highest outcome to a client machine, the client machine to be used to adjust the highest outcome and generate an adjusted outcome; and receive the adjusted outcome and save the adjusted outcome to the data storage.
3. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the analogy detection engine to: upon not finding evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes in the ontological database, search a corpus for evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes; and score each entry in the one or more outcomes according to a weighted calculation from the corpus based on congruence with the pattern.
4. The computer system of claim 3, wherein application of the score further comprises application of a weight, wherein the weight is based on an incidence of direct and indirect matches in the corpus.
5. The computer system of claim 1, further comprising the analogy detection engine to resolve a comparator, including employ evidence of the comparator in a corpus and incorporate the comparator evidence into the one or more outcomes of generated idiomatic structure.
6. A computer program product for deciphering a phrase, the computer program product comprising: a computer readable storage device having program code embodied therewith in communication with an artificial intelligence (AI) platform to employ machine learning to support natural language processing and interpretation, the program code executable by a processing unit to: parse received content comprising an analogical phrase into terms to reveal an analogical pattern; categorize the terms according to syntactic placement and place the terms into two or more categories according to word type patterns in the phrase to produce metadata; match the metadata to outcome metadata generated from one or more outcomes; generate grammatical data for each of the one or more outcomes; apply a reasoning algorithm to the one or more outcomes according to a degree of congruence with the syntactic placement and word type patterns of the phrase, the algorithm indicating an extent to which the outcomes are inferred by the received content; weigh the one or more outcomes against a model, the model capturing an effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm; apply a confidence level data metric to the one or more outcomes, the confidence level data metric associated with the effectiveness of the one or more outcomes determined by the reasoning algorithm; and responsive to the application confidence metric, train the AI platform with the corresponding outcome.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising the program code to: ascertain a low confidence level data metric attributed to a highest outcome, wherein the highest outcome is selected from the one or more outcomes responsive to the effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm captured by the model; send the highest outcome to a client machine, the client machine to be used to adjust the highest outcome and generate an adjusted outcome; and receive the adjusted outcome and save the adjusted outcome to the data storage.
8. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising the program code to: upon not finding evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes in the ontological database, search a corpus for evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes; and score each entry in the one or more outcomes according to a weighted calculation from the corpus based on congruence with the pattern.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein application of the score further comprises application of a weight, wherein the weight is based on an incidence of direct and indirect matches in the corpus.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising the program code to resolve a comparator, including employ evidence of the comparator in a corpus and incorporate the comparator evidence into the one or more outcomes of generated idiomatic structure.
11. A computer implemented method for generating an analogy outcome, the method comprising: providing an artificial intelligence (AI) platform to employ machine learning to support natural language processing and interpretation: parsing received content comprising an analogical phrase into terms to reveal an analogical pattern; categorizing the terms according to syntactic placement and placing the terms into two or more categories according to word type patterns in the phrase to produce metadata; matching the metadata to outcome metadata generated from one or more outcomes; generating grammatical data for each of the one or more outcomes; applying a reasoning algorithm to the one or more outcomes according to a degree of congruence with the syntactic placement and word type patterns of the phrase, the algorithm indicating an extent to which the outcomes are inferred by the received content; weighing the one or more outcomes against a model, the model capturing an effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm; applying a confidence level data metric to the one or more outcomes, the confidence level data metric associated with the effectiveness of the one or more outcomes determined by the reasoning algorithm; and responsive to the application confidence metric, training the AI platform with the corresponding outcome.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: ascertaining a low confidence level data metric attributed to a highest outcome, wherein the highest outcome is selected from the one or more outcomes responsive to the effectiveness of the reasoning algorithm captured by the model; sending the highest outcome to a client machine, the client machine to be used to adjust the highest outcome and generate an adjusted outcome; and receiving the adjusted outcome and saving the adjusted outcome to the data storage.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: upon not finding evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes in the ontological database, searching a corpus for evidence of a pattern associated with the one or more outcomes; and scoring each entry in the one or more outcomes according to a weighted calculation from the corpus based on congruence with the pattern.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein application of the score further comprises application of a weight, wherein the weight is based on an incidence of direct and indirect matches in the corpus.
15. The method of claim 11, further comprising resolving a comparator, including employing evidence of the comparator in a corpus and incorporating the comparator evidence into the one or more outcomes of generated idiomatic structure.
</claims>
</document>
