<document>

<filing_date>
2019-06-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-06-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F30/20,G06K9/00,G06T15/50,G06T19/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CAPITAL ONE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CASTANEDA, JONATHAN
MARTINEZ, DANIEL
HARDIN, WILLIAM
YOUNGBLOOD, STEWART
DUCKWORTH, STAEVAN
BLACKSHER, VICTORIA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71783307
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Methods and systems for providing a tutorial for graphic manipulation of objects including real-time scanning in an augmented reality
</title>

<abstract>
A device including a storage medium storing instructions, and at least one processor configured to execute the stored instructions to perform operations is provided. The operations include displaying on a display screen an interactive scene containing an augmented reality element, receiving input to change display of the interactive scene, and receiving a request to simulate the capturing of image data representing the interactive scene. The operations further include determining a position of the augmented reality element relative to a region defined on the display screen, simulating the capturing of the image data representing the interactive scene, and providing, based on the determined position, an indication of whether the simulation has succeeded.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a storage medium storing instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the stored instructions to perform operations comprising: displaying on a display screen an interactive scene containing an augmented reality element; receiving a first input to change a display of the interactive scene; receiving a request to simulate the capturing of image data representing the interactive scene; simulating the capturing of the image data representing the interactive scene, wherein simulating the capturing of the image data comprises receiving a second input from a user, the second input comprising: the user orienting and positioning the display screen for placing the augmented reality element at least partially within a first graphical user interface element shown on the display screen and represented by a region having a boundary, and the user interacting with a second graphical user interface element for storing the image data; and providing, an indication of whether the simulation has succeeded, wherein the success is determined by: identifying a probability of determining an identity of the augmented reality element; and determining whether the probability is above a threshold value.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the first input comprises at least one of zooming a viewpoint to the augmented reality element, rotating the viewpoint for the interactive scene, moving the viewpoint for the interactive scene, or changing lighting conditions of the interactive scene.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: receiving a request to retrieve the augmented reality element from a database; and retrieving the augmented reality element for from the database.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein displaying the interactive scene comprises displaying a view of an environment of a user.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein providing the indication of whether the simulation has succeeded comprises: determining an orientation of the augmented reality element relative to a viewpoint for the interactive scene.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein identifying a likelihood the probability comprises using an artificial neural network.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the augmented reality element corresponds to a virtual vehicle.
8. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: selecting an initial predetermined position and orientation for the augmented reality element within the interactive scene, wherein the predetermined position and orientation are selected to result in the unsuccessful simulation; and providing an indication that the simulation has not succeeded.
9. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise: displaying suggestions for manipulating the device based on the indication of whether the simulation of the capturing of the image data representing the interactive screen has succeeded.
10. The device of claim 1, wherein providing the indication of whether the simulation has succeeded further comprises: determining a perceived distance to the augmented reality element relative to a viewpoint for the interactive scene.
11. A training method for using a device for object recognition, the method comprising: displaying on a display screen an interactive scene containing an augmented reality element; receiving a first input from a user for manipulating the device, the first input resulting in changes of how the interactive scene is displayed; receiving a request to simulate the capturing of image data representing the interactive scene; simulating the capturing of the image data representing the interactive scene, wherein simulating the capturing of the image data comprises receiving a second input from the user, the second input comprising: the user orienting and positioning the display screen for placing the augmented reality element at least partially within a first graphical user interface element shown on the display screen and represented by a region having a boundary, and the user interacting with a second graphical user interface element for storing the image data; and providing, an indication of whether the simulation has succeeded, wherein the success is determined by: identifying a probability of determining an identity of the augmented reality element; and determining whether the probability is above a threshold value.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the first input comprises at least one of zooming a viewpoint to the augmented reality element, rotating the viewpoint for the interactive scene, moving the viewpoint for the interactive scene, or changing lighting conditions of the interactive scene.
13. The method of claim 11, further comprising: receiving a request to retrieve the augmented reality element from a database; and retrieving the augmented reality element from the database.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein displaying on the display screen the interactive scene comprises displaying a view of an environment of a user.
15. The method of claim 11, wherein providing the indication of whether the simulation has succeeded comprises: determining an orientation of the augmented reality element relative to a viewpoint for the interactive scene.
16. A device, comprising a storage medium storing instructions; and a processor configured to execute the stored instructions to perform operations comprising: displaying on a display screen an interactive scene containing an augmented reality element; receiving a first input from a user for manipulating the device, the first input resulting in changes of how the interactive scene is displayed; receiving a request to simulate the capturing of image data representing the interactive scene; providing, an indication of whether the simulation will be successful, wherein the success is determined by: identifying a probability of determining an identity of the augmented reality element; and determining whether the probability is above a threshold value; and simulating the capturing of the image data representing the interactive scene, wherein simulating the capturing of the image data comprises receiving a second input from the user, the second input comprising: the user orienting and positioning the display screen for placing the augmented reality element at least partially within a first graphical user interface element shown on the display screen and represented by a region having a boundary, and the user interacting with a second graphical user interface element for storing the image data.
17. The device of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise: displaying suggestions for manipulating the device based on the indication of whether the simulation will be successful.
18. The device of claim 16, wherein providing the indication of whether the simulation will be successful comprises: determining an orientation of the augmented reality element relative to a viewpoint for the interactive scene.
</claims>
</document>
