<document>

<filing_date>
2017-01-31
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-17
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-01-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/957,G06F16/958,G06F17/30,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
WAL-MART STORES
</assignee>

<inventors>
ACHAN, KANNAN
MITRA, ABHIMANYU
RAPAKA, VENKATA SYAM PRAKASH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62979908
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for updating a webpage
</title>

<abstract>
In many embodiments, the method can comprise storing one or more user actions of a user of one or more users in a database, sorting the one or more user actions into one or more user action types, and extracting one or more correlated signals related to the one or more user actions of the user of the one or more users based at least in part on the one or more user action types to determine one or more independent signals related to the one or more user actions of the user of the one or more users. In some embodiments, the method can further comprise averaging the one or more independent signals related to the one or more user actions of the user of the one or more users to determine a personalization score related to the user of the one or more users and updating a webpage for the user of the one or more users based at least in part on the personalization score. Other embodiments of related methods and systems are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processors; and one or more non-transitory computer-readable media storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processors and perform: storing two or more user actions of a user of one or more users in a database; sorting the two or more user actions into two or more user action types; extracting, by a Mahalanbois transformation, two or more correlated signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users based at least in part on the two or more user action types to determine two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users; averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users to determine a personalization score related to the user of the one or more users; and after the user of the one or more users has returned to a homepage of a website, recommending one or more search terms for a search query based at least in part on the personalization score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: the two or more user actions comprise at least two different ones of: one or more other search queries by the user of the one or more users; one or more item clicks by the user of the one or more users; one or more items added-to-cart by the user of the one or more users; a time spent on a webpage of the website by the user of the one or more users; a bounce rate; or one or more item purchases by the user of the one or more users.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the two or more user action types comprise at least two different ones of: a search; a click; an add-to-cart; a view time; or a purchase.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises determining a weighted average of the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises averaging using a formula: wherein: μ is a mean vector of the two or more user actions; a1 is a vector of the two or more user actions by an ith user of the one or more users; Σ−1/2 is a ZCA-Mahalanobis whitening matrix; n is a total number of the one or more users; and μrelevant is an average vector of independent signals.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein: the computing instructions are further configured to perform the acts of: amending a campaign when the personalization score is below a predetermined threshold.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: the computing instructions are further configured to perform: updating a user profile of the user of the one or more users when the personalization score reaches or exceeds a predetermined threshold.
8. A method comprising: storing two or more user actions of a user of one or more users in a database; sorting the two or more user actions into two or more user action types; extracting, by a Mahalanbois transformation, two or more correlated signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users based at least in part on the two or more user action types to determine two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users; averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user to determine a personalization score related to the user of the one or more users; and after the user of the one or more users has returned to a homepage of a website, recommending one or more search terms for a search query based at least in part on the personalization score.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: the two or more user actions comprise at least two different ones of: one or more other search queries by the user of the one or more users; one or more item clicks by the user of the one or more users; one or more items added-to-cart by the user of the one or more users; a time spent on a webpage of the website by the user of the one or more users; a bounce rate; or one or more item purchases by the user of the one or more users.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein: the two or more user action types comprise at least two different ones of: a search; a click; an add-to-cart; a view time; or a purchase.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises determining a weighted average of the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises averaging using a formula: wherein: μ is a mean vector of the two or more user actions; a1 is a vector of the two or more user actions by an ith user of the one or more users; Σ−1/2 is a ZCA-Mahalanobis whitening matrix; n is a total number of the one or more users; and μrelevant is an average vector of independent signals.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising: amending a campaign when the personalization score is below a predetermined threshold.
14. The method of claim 8, further comprising: updating a user profile of the user of the one or more users when the personalization score reaches or exceeds a predetermined threshold.
15. A method comprising: updating a user profile of a user of one or more users based at least in part on a determination of a personalization score of the user of the one or more users, wherein determining the personalization score of the user of the one or more users comprises: storing two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users in a database; sorting the two or more user actions into two or more user action types; extracting, by a Mahalanbois transformation, two or more correlated signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users based at least in part on the two or more user action types to determine two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users; averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user to determine the personalization score related to the user of the one or more users; and after the user of the one or more users has returned to a homepage of a website, recommending one or more search terms for a search query based at least in part on the personalization score.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein: the two or more user actions comprise at least two different ones of: one or more other search queries by the user of the one or more users; one or more item clicks by the user of the one or more users; one or more items added-to-cart by the user of the one or more users; a time spent on a webpage of the website by the user of the one or more users; a bounce rate; or one or more item purchases by the user of the one or more users.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein: the two or more user action types comprise at least two different ones of: a search; a click; an add-to-cart; a view time; or a purchase.
18. The method of claim 15, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises determining a weighted average of the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users.
19. The method of claim 8, wherein: averaging the two or more independent signals related to the two or more user actions of the user of the one or more users comprises averaging using a formula: wherein: μ is a mean vector of the two or more user actions; a1 is a vector of the two or more user actions by an ith user of the one or more users; Σ−1/2 is a ZCA-Mahalanobis whitening matrix; n is a total number of the one or more users; and μrelevant is an average vector of independent signals.
20. The method of claim 8, further comprising: amending a campaign when the personalization score is below a predetermined threshold.
</claims>
</document>
