<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2455,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
OLX B.V.
OLX B. V.
</assignee>

<inventors>
GRAU, CARLES
GONZÁLEZ, CARLOS
TIBAU-PUIG, ARNAU
CERONE, LUCA
GIL, XAVIER
GARCIA, NESTOR
MEYNET, JULIEN
CASTELLÓ, JORDI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67985318
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Clickless identification and online posting
</title>

<abstract>
Provided are systems, devices, and methods for clickless identification of an object and clickless posting of an online listing corresponding to the identified object. In one example, a method may include one or more of identifying an object included in image data obtained via a clickless image identification process, wherein the identifying is performed while the image data is being captured by an image capturing component associated with a mobile device, predicting one or more attributes of the identified object based on previous data of similar objects posted on a web resource, and displaying an identifier of the identified object and the one or more predicted attributes of the identified object on a screen of the mobile device while the clickless image identification process is occurring.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing system comprising: a processor configured to identify, via a mobile application, an object included in image data obtained via a clickless image identification process, wherein the identifying is performed while the image data is being captured by an image capturing component of a mobile device; and a storage configured to store information about the image data obtained via the clickless image identification process, wherein the processor is further configured to predict, via one or more learning models of the mobile application, a price value, a demand value, and a time-to-sell value of the already identified object based on a type of the already identified object and additional attributes of other objects of a same type, and display an identifier of the object and the predicted price value, the predicted demand value, and the predicted time-to-sell value on a screen of the mobile device while the clickless image identification process is occurring.
2. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to sequentially identify a plurality of items during a continuous clickless image identification process based on movement of an imaging position of the image capturing component of the mobile device.
3. The computing system of claim 2, wherein, each time a new object is identified during the clickless image identification process, the processor removes a display of an identifier of a previously identified object from the screen and newly displays an identifier and one or more predicted attributes of the newly identified object on the screen.
4. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the object comprises a three-dimensional object included in image data captured by a camera of the mobile device during the clickless image identification process.
5. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict, via the one or more learning models of the mobile application, the price value of the already identified object based on sales price values of the other objects of the same type.
6. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict, via the one or more learning models of the mobile application, the time-to-sell value representing a length of time before a purchase of the already identified object based on length of time to sell values of the other objects of the same type.
7. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to predict the price value, the demand value, and the time-to-sell value via one or more predictive models that are stored remotely on a web server that is remotely connected to the mobile device.
8. The computing system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to display a live image of the object captured by a camera of the mobile device and a name of the object determined from the image data.
9. A method comprising: identifying, via a mobile application, an object included in image data obtained via a clickless image identification process, wherein the identifying is perform ed while the image data is being captured by an image capturing component associated with a mobile device; predicting, via one or more learning models of the mobile application, a price value, a demand value, and a time-to-sell value, of the already identified object based on a type of the already identified object and additional attributes of other objects of a same type; and displaying an identifier of the object and the predicted price value, the predicted demand value, and the predicted time-to-sell value on a screen of the mobile device while the clickless image identification process is occurring.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the identifying comprises sequentially identifying a plurality of items during a continuous clickless image identification process based on movement of an imaging position of the image capturing component of the mobile device.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein, each time a new object is identified during the clickless image identification process, the displaying comprises removing a display of an identifier of a previously identified object from the screen and newly displaying an identifier and one or more predicted attributes of the newly identified object on the screen.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the identifying of the object is performed via an optical recognition model that is stored locally on the mobile device.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the predicting, via the one or more learning models of the mobile application, comprises predicting the price value of the already identified object based on sales price values of the other objects of the same type.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the predicting, via the one or more learning models of the mobile application, comprises predicting the time-to-sell value representing a length of time before a purchase of the already identified object based on length of time to sell values of the other objects of the same type.
15. A computing system comprising: a processor configured to identify, via a mobile application, an object included in image data obtained via a clickless image identification process, wherein the identification is performed while the image data is being captured by an image capturing component of a mobile device; and a storage configured to store information about the image data of the object, wherein the processor is further configured to predict, via one or more learning models of the mobile application, a price value, a demand value, and a time-to-sell value of the already identified object based on a type of the already identified object and additional attributes of other objects of a same type stored on a web resource, and upload a listing of the object included in the image data to the web resource, the listing comprising an image of the identified object and the predicted price value, the predicted demand value, and the predicted time-to-sell value.
16. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the web resource comprises one of a mobile application hosted by an application server and a website hosted by a host server.
17. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to post the listing to a web resource that is accessible to the mobile device while the clickless image identification process is still occurring.
18. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the listing based on a plurality of predefined fields and transmit the listing to a host server of the web resource.
19. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to sequentially identify a plurality of objects during the clickless image identification process based on movement of an imaging position of the image capturing component of the mobile device.
20. The computing system of claim 15, wherein the processor is configured to automatically fill-in a web-based listing with the image of the identified object, a name of the identified object, the predicted price value of the identified object, and the predicted time-to-sell value of the identified object.
</claims>
</document>
