<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-17
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/34,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
VANGALA, VIPINDEEP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
56684285
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Diagnostic framework in computing systems
</title>

<abstract>
Various techniques for diagnostics, troubleshooting, and root-cause analysis are disclosed herein. In one embodiment, a method includes receiving operational data from a computing system and identifying an operational pattern based on the operational data. The operational pattern includes a temporal sequence of operations, events, or system states related to the computing system. The method also includes receiving an annotation and associating the received annotation with the identified operational pattern. The annotation identifies a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the temporal sequence.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. A diagnostic system for diagnosing performance of a monitored computing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory operatively coupled to the processor, the memory storing computer-executable instructions executable by the processor to cause the remote diagnostic system to: receive operational data from an analyzed computing system, the operational data representing one or more of operations, events, or system states related to the computing system; identify an operational pattern based on the operational data, the operational pattern including a temporal sequence of the operations, events, or system states related to the analyzed computing system; and generate data representing an operational profile of the computing system by associating an annotation with the identified operational pattern, the annotation identifying a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the operational pattern, wherein the operational profile includes the identified operational pattern and the associated annotation, and wherein the operational profile allows the annotation to be provided to identify a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the temporal sequence in the associated operational pattern.
2. The diagnostic system of claim 1 wherein the received operational data from the analyzed computing system includes operational data from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions.
3. The diagnostic system of claim 1 wherein the received operational data from the analyzed computing system includes event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions.
4. The diagnostic system of claim 1 wherein: the received operational data from the analyzed computing system includes event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; and the memory comprises additional instructions executable by the processor to cause the diagnostic system to: parse the event logs; and identify a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs.
5. The diagnostic system of claim 1, wherein: the received operational data from the analyzed computing system includes event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; and the memory comprises additional instructions executable by the processor to cause the diagnostic system to: parse the event logs; identify a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs; and identify a time interval between a pair of the events of the temporal sequence.
6. The diagnostic system of claim 1, wherein: the received operational data from the analyzed computing system includes event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; and the memory comprises additional instructions executable by the processor to cause the diagnostic system to: parse the event logs; identify a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs; identify a time interval between a pair of the events of the temporal sequence; and associate the received annotation with a condition for which the time interval between the pair of the events of the temporal sequence is exceeded.
7. The diagnostic system of claim 1 wherein: the annotation is a first annotation; and the memory comprises additional instructions executable by the processor to cause the diagnostic system to: identify a correlation of performance metrics of the computing system, the performance metrics individually including an operating parameter corresponding to a performance level of the analyzed computing system; and receive and associate a second annotation with the correlation of performance metrics, the second annotation identifying a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the correlation of the performance metrics.
8. A method of diagnosing computing system performance, comprising: receiving operational data from an analyzed computing system; identifying an operational pattern based on the operational data from the analyzed computing system, the operational pattern including a temporal sequence of operations, events, or system states related to the analyzed computing system; generating data representing an operational profile of the computing system by associating an annotation with the identified operational pattern, the annotation identifying a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the temporal sequence; and providing, to a diagnostic computing system, the generated operational profile for diagnosing performance of the analyzed computing system based on additional operational data from the computing system, wherein the provided operational profile allows the diagnostic computing system to provide the annotation to identify a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the temporal sequence in the associated operational pattern.
9. The method of claim 8 wherein receiving the operational data from the analyzed computing system includes receiving operational data from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions.
10. The method of claim 8 wherein receiving the operational data from the analyzed computing system includes receiving event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions.
11. The method of claim 8 wherein: receiving the operational data from the analyzed computing system includes receiving event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; and identifying the operational pattern includes: parsing the event logs based on keywords; and identifying a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs.
12. The method of claim 8 wherein: receiving the operational data from the analyzed computing system includes receiving event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; and identifying the operational pattern includes: parsing the event logs based on keywords; identifying a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs; and identifying a time interval between a pair of the events of the temporal sequence.
13. The method of claim 8 wherein: receiving the operational data from the analyzed computing system includes receiving event logs from the analyzed computing system operating under normal conditions; identifying the operational pattern includes: parsing the event logs based on keywords; identifying a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs; and identifying a time interval between a pair of the events of the temporal sequence; and associating the received annotation includes associating the received annotation with a condition for which the time interval between the pair of the events of the temporal sequence is exceeded.
14. The method of claim 8 wherein: the annotation is a first annotation; and the method further includes: identifying a correlation of performance metrics of the analyzed computing system, the performance metrics individually including an operating parameter corresponding to a performance level of the computing system; and receiving a second annotation and associating the second annotation with the correlation of performance metrics, the second annotation identifying a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the correlation of the performance metrics.
15. The method of claim 8, further comprising: receiving additional operational data from the analyzed computing system; identifying another operational pattern based on the additional operational data; and updating the association of the received annotation with the identified another operational pattern.
16. A method of diagnosing computing system performance, comprising: receiving operational data from a computing system; identifying an operational pattern based on the received operational data, the operational pattern including a temporal sequence of operations, events, or system states of the computing system; determining whether the identified operational pattern violates an operational profile by comparing the identified operational pattern with a reference operational pattern of the operational profile; and in response to determining that the identified operational pattern violates the reference operational pattern of the operational profile, outputting, via a device remote from the computing system, a reason, cause, or corrective suggestion contained in an annotation associated with the reference operational sequence in the operational profile for diagnosing performance of the computing system.
17. The method of claim 16 wherein: receiving the operational data includes receiving event logs from the computing system; and identifying the operational pattern includes: parsing the event logs based on keywords; and identifying a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs.
18. The method of claim 16 wherein: receiving the operational data includes receiving event logs from the computing system operating; and identifying the operational pattern includes: parsing the event logs based on keywords; identifying a temporal sequence of events based on the parsed event logs; and identifying a time interval between a pair of the events of the temporal sequence.
19. The method of claim 16 wherein: the annotation is a first annotation; and the method further includes: identifying a correlation of performance metrics of the computing system, the performance metrics individually including an operating parameter corresponding to a performance level of the computing system; determine whether the identified correlation of performance metrics violates a reference correlation of performance metrics associated with a second annotation identifying a reason, a cause, or a corrective suggestion corresponding to a violation of the correlation of performance metrics; and in response to determining that the identified correlation of performance metrics violates the reference correlation of performance metrics, outputting the reason, cause, or corrective suggestion contained in the second annotation for diagnosing performance of the computing system.
20. The method of claim 16, further comprising: receiving an operational issue of the computing system from a tenant of the computing system; determining if a timeline of the operational issue correlates with a timeline of the violation of the operational pattern; and in response to determining that the timeline of the operational issue correlates with the timeline of the violation of the operational pattern, outputting the reason, cause, or corrective suggestion contained in the annotation as related to the received operational issue.
</claims>
</document>
