<document>

<filing_date>
2014-01-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2013-08-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G16H50/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CERNER INNOVATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCNAIR DOUGLAS S.
KAILASAM, KANAKASABHA
MURRISH, JOHN CHRISTOPHER
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68165050
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced natural language processing
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods and computer-readable media are provided for facilitating clinical decision support and managing patient population health by health-related entities including caregivers, health care administrators, insurance providers, and patients. Embodiments of the invention provide decision support services including providing timely contextual patient information including condition risks, risk factors and relevant clinical information that are dynamically updatable; imputing missing patient information; dynamically generating assessments for obtaining additional patient information based on context; data-mining and information discovery services including discovering new knowledge; identifying or evaluating treatments or sequences of patient care actions and behaviors, and providing recommendations based on this; intelligent, adaptive decision support services including identifying critical junctures in patient care processes, such as points in time that warrant close attention by caregivers; near-real time querying across diverse health records data sources, which may use diverse clinical nomenclatures and ontologies; improved natural language processing services; and other decision support services.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer system for providing natural language detection or processing (NLP), comprising: one or more processors; computer storage memory having computer-executable instructions stored thereon which, when executed by the one or more processors, perform operations comprising: receive unstructured health-related data associated with a first patient, the unstructured health-related data including a discrete element; determine, via computer natural language processor, a preliminary NLP match to be confirmed between the discrete element and a candidate clinical concept; determine a first set of clinical concepts associated with the first patient; receive structured health-related data associated with a population of patients based on the determined first set of clinical concepts, the structured health-related data comprising the first set of clinical concepts and the candidate clinical concept; determine, from the structured health-related data associated with the population of patients, a likelihood of the population of patients having the candidate clinical concept; determine that the discrete element from the unstructured health-related data associated with the first patient matches the candidate clinical concept determined by the computer natural language processor based on the likelihood of patients in the population of patients having the candidate clinical concept in the structured health-related data; and confirm the preliminary NLP match of the computer natural language processor based on the determination that the discrete element matches the candidate clinical concept.
2. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 1, further comprising: identify the discrete element from the received unstructured health-related data using the computer natural language processor.
3. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 2, wherein the computer natural language processor is based on an open-source natural language processing system.
4. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 2, wherein the computer natural language processor is carried out by one or more software agents.
5. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 1, wherein the received unstructured health-related data comprises received audio or speech data.
6. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 1, wherein the received unstructured health-related data comprises data from a monitor or sensor associated with the first patient.
7. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 1, wherein the received unstructured health-related data is received from the first patient.
8. The one or more computer-readable hardware devices of claim 1, further comprising: present information about the discrete element and the candidate clinical concept to a user; and receive a confirmation from the user that the discrete element matches the candidate clinical concept.
9. A computer implemented method for providing natural language detection or processing (NLP), comprising: receiving a discrete element from unstructured health-related data associated with a first patient; determining, via a computer medical language processor, a preliminary match to be confirmed between the discrete element and a candidate clinical concept; identifying a first set of clinical concepts associated with the first patient; retrieving structured health-related data associated with a plurality of patients based on the first set of clinical concepts, the structured health-related data indicating one or more patients are associated with the first set of clinical concepts and the candidate clinical concept determined by the computer medical language processor; determining, from the structured health-related data associated with the plurality of patients, a likelihood of the plurality of patients having the candidate clinical concept determined in the preliminary match by the computer medical language processor; determining that the discrete element from the unstructured health-related data associated with the first patient matches the candidate clinical concept determined by the computer medical language processor based on the likelihood of the plurality of patients having the candidate clinical concept in the structured health-related data; and confirming the preliminary match based on the determination that the discrete element matches the candidate clinical concept.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the receiving comprises separating the discrete element from the unstructured health-related data.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the separating comprises utilizing the computer medical language processor.
12. The method of claim 9, further comprising presenting information about the discrete element and candidate clinical concept to a user for confirming a match.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising receiving a confirmation from the user that the discrete element matches the candidate clinical concept.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the unstructured health-related data comprises received audio or speech data.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the unstructured health-related data comprises data from a monitor or sensor associated with the first patient.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the unstructured health-related data is received from the first patient.
</claims>
</document>
