<document>

<filing_date>
2019-11-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A62C3/00,A62C3/02,A62C35/02,A62C37/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TYCO FIRE PRODUCTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOFFA, ANTHONY PHILIP
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62556562
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensor integration in mechanical fire suppression systems
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods for remote monitoring of mechanical fire suppression systems are provided. For example, some embodiments generally provide for a smart fire suppression system with integrated sensors and communication technology to monitor the current state of the fire suppression system and notify various monitoring platforms, service providers, equipment manufacturers and/or others of the current state. In some embodiments, various sensors (e.g., micro switches) can be used to detect and report the status of the cartridge, activation status of the system, and/or the status of the detection line. Additional sensors and actuators may be also be included within the smart fire suppression system to allow monitoring of different states (e.g., temperature) and control the appliance and/or building utilities.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, from one or more sensors within a fire suppression system, signals indicative of states of components of the fire suppression system; determining, based on the signals indicative of the states of the components of the fire suppression system, an operational status of the fire suppression system; transmitting, to a monitoring platform via a network connection, the operational status of the fire suppression system; setting, in response to at least one of (a) a request or (b) a determination that the fire suppression system is in an abnormal state, the operational status of the fire suppression system to a maintenance status in which an alarm is suppressed; setting a first timer that upon expiration will cause the maintenance status to change to a functional status or an inoperative status; setting a second timer, upon expiration of the first timer and change of the operational status to the inoperative status; and providing a notification upon expiration of the second timer, wherein the components include at least one of a cartridge, a detection line, and an agent tank.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the components of the fire suppression system include the cartridge, the detection line, and the agent tank and wherein determining the operational status of the fire suppression system includes: determining, based on the signals from the one or more sensors, whether the cartridge is installed in the fire suppression system; determining, based on the signals from the one or more sensors, whether the detection line is properly set; and determining, based on the signals from the one or more sensors, whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein determining whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent includes using a spring-based trigger to measure a weight and orientation of the agent tank.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein determining whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent includes performing a frequency analysis that includes: generating, using the agent tank, an acoustic signal; performing a frequency analysis of the acoustic signal; and determining whether the agent tank is properly filled by comparing the frequency analysis with a desired frequency analysis of a known agent tank.
5. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining whether the cartridge is installed by receiving an input from at least one of an accelerometer, a scale, and a spring-based mechanism.
6. The method of claim 2, further comprising determining whether the cartridge is installed by monitoring the cartridge for a vertical state with a counterweighted switch mechanism, a liquid metal switch mechanism, an accelerometer, a gyro, or a ball switch.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the notification includes a message identifying states of components of the fire suppression system.
8. A fire suppression system comprising: an agent tank configured to store a fire suppression agent; a cartridge coupled to the agent tank and configured to store a release gas; a detection line configured to break or melt in response to reaching a temperature indicative of a fire; a release assembly configured to release the release gas from the cartridge in response to the detection line breaking or melting; a sensor configured to monitor an operational status of the fire suppression system including whether the detection line is properly set; and a control panel configured to communicate the operational status of the fire suppression system to a user.
9. The fire suppression system of claim 8, wherein the control panel is configured to: determine, based on signals from the sensor, whether the cartridge is installed in the fire suppression system; and determine, based on the signals from the sensor, whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent.
10. The fire suppression system of claim 9, wherein the operational status includes a functional status indicating that the fire suppression system will operate as expected, a maintenance status indicating that the fire suppression system is under maintenance, a discharge status indicating that the fire suppression system has been discharged, and an inoperative status indicating that the fire suppression system will not operate as expected.
11. The fire suppression system of claim 10, wherein the maintenance status identifies a set period of time where alarms generated by the fire suppression system will be suppressed.
12. The fire suppression system of claim 9, wherein the control panel determines whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent by using a spring-based trigger to measure a weight and orientation of the agent tank.
13. The fire suppression system of claim 9, wherein the control panel determines whether the agent tank includes fire suppression agent by performing a frequency analysis that includes: generating, using the agent tank, an acoustic signal; performing a frequency analysis of the acoustic signal; and determining whether the agent tank is properly filled by comparing the frequency analysis with a desired frequency analysis of a known agent tank.
14. The fire suppression system of claim 9, wherein the control panel determines whether the cartridge is installed by using at least one of an accelerometer, a scale, and a spring-based mechanism.
15. The fire suppression system of claim 9, wherein the control panel determines whether the cartridge is installed by monitoring the cartridge for a vertical state with a counterweighted switch mechanism, a liquid metal switch mechanism, an accelerometer, a gyro, or a ball switch.
16. The fire suppression system of claim 8, wherein the control panel is configured to: receive a request to change the operational status of the fire suppression system to a maintenance status that will suppress alarms; set, in response to the request, the operational status of the fire suppression system to the maintenance status, and set a timer that upon expiration will cause the maintenance status to change to a functional status or an inoperative status.
17. The fire suppression system of claim 16, wherein the timer is a first timer and the control panel is configured to set a second timer, upon expiration of the first timer and change of the operational status to the inoperative status, and generate a message for the technician identifying states of components of the fire suppression system.
18. The fire suppression system of claim 8, wherein the sensor comprises: a first sensor configured to monitor whether the detection line is properly set; a second sensor configured to monitor a status of the cartridge; and a third sensor configured to monitor a status of the agent tank.
19. A fire suppression system comprising: an agent tank configured to store a fire suppression agent; a cartridge coupled to the agent tank and configured to store a release gas; a sensor configured to monitor an operational status of the fire suppression system including an orientation of the cartridge; and a controller configured to (a) determine, based on signals from the sensor, whether the cartridge is installed and (b) communicate the operational status of the fire suppression system to a user.
20. The fire suppression system of claim 19, wherein the sensor includes at least one of a counterweighted switch mechanism, a liquid metal switch mechanism, an accelerometer, a gyro, or a ball switch.
</claims>
</document>
