<document>

<filing_date>
2019-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-06
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/34,G01S19/42,G06Q40/08,G06Q50/26,G08B21/10,G08B21/18,G08B25/00,G08B27/00,G08G1/01,H04Q9/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MENON, SUNISH
KINSEY, JEFFREY
MOON, PHILLIP SANGPIL
STOIBER, JEFFREY WILSON
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61872675
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Sensor data to identify catastrophe areas
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for generating an automated response to a catastrophic event, that includes (1) analyzing a sample set of data generated in association with a catastrophic event to determine a threshold pattern; (2) receiving, with customer permission or affirmative consent, home sensor data from a smart home controller via wireless communication or data transmission, the home sensor data including data regarding at least one of (i) structural status; (ii) wind speed; (iii) availability of electricity; (iv) presence of water; (v) temperature; (vi) pressure; and/or (vii) presence of pollutants in the air and/or water; (3) determining, based upon or from computer analysis of the home sensor data, whether the home sensor data indicates a match to the threshold pattern; and (4) automatically generating a response if the home sensor data indicates a match to the threshold pattern. As a result, catastrophic events and responses thereto may be improved through usage of a remote network of home sensors.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for detecting and generating an automated response to a catastrophic event, the computer-implemented method comprising: analyzing event data generated by a plurality of sensors positioned in and around a plurality of structures to determine that an event threshold for a first event type has been met or exceeded by the event data; identifying a geographic boundary for an area associated with the event data at least in part by encompassing the plurality of sensors and by processing at least one datum relating to at least one characteristic of the first event type, the area associated with the event data comprising areas affected by and likely to be affected by the first event type; automatically generating a response based upon the first event type and the geographic boundary, including by identifying a customer who resides on property within the geographic boundary; and providing operational instructions based upon the first event type to a customer sensor installed on the property of the customer.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the response includes an indication that human personnel should be deployed to the area associated with the event data.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the response includes a list of person(s) residing in the area associated with the event data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the response includes (i) determining a GPS location of a second customer based upon GPS location data; and (ii) determining that the GPS location of the second customer is within the geographic boundary for the area associated with the event.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the response further includes generating an alternate route for a vehicle of the second customer and transmitting the alternate route to at least one of the vehicle and a mobile device of the user.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising comparing a set of insurance claims with the list of person(s).
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the event data is weather-related data received from an external database configured for weather tracking.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the event data is received from an external database configured for alarm system monitoring.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first event type is a weather-related event.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first event type is an electrical outage-related event.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first event type is a traffic-related event.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the plurality of sensors generate physical weather-related data.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the plurality of sensors generate traffic-related data.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein at least some of the plurality of sensors generate structural status information regarding the plurality of structures.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising the step of confirming the occurrence of the first event type by comparison of the event data with a supplemental data set, the supplemental data set including weather-related data received from an external database configured for weather tracking.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium with an executable program stored thereon for detecting and generating an automated response to a catastrophic event, wherein the program instructs a processing element of a computing device to perform the following: analyze event data generated by a plurality of sensors positioned in and around a plurality of houses to determine that event threshold for a first event type has been met or exceeded by the event data; identify a geographic boundary for an area associated with the event data at least in party by encompassing the plurality of sensors and by processing at least one datum relating to at least one characteristic of the first event type, the area associated with the event data comprising areas affected by and likely to be affected by the first event type; automatically generate a response based upon the first event type and the geographic boundary, including by identifying a customer who resides on property within the geographic boundary; and provide operational instructions based upon the first event type to a customer sensor installed on the property of the customer.
17. A computing device for detecting and generating an automated response to a catastrophic event, the device comprising: a communication element configured to receive event data generated by a plurality of sensors positioned in and around a structure; a memory element electronically coupled to the communication element, the memory element configured to store data and executable instructions; and a processing element electronically coupled to the communication element and the memory element, the processing element configured to— analyze event data generated by the plurality of sensors to determine that an event threshold for a first event type has been met or exceeded by the event data; identify a geographic boundary for an area associated with the event data at least in part by encompassing the plurality of sensors and by processing at least one datum relating to at least one characteristic of the first event type, the area associated with the event data comprising areas affected by and likely to be affected by the first event type; automatically generate a response based upon the first event type and the geographic boundary, including by identifying a customer who resides on property within the geographic boundary; and provide operational instructions based upon the first event type to a customer sensor installed on the property of the customer.
18. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the first event type is a weather-related event.
19. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the first event type is an electrical outage-related event.
20. The computing device of claim 17, wherein the first event type is a traffic related event.
</claims>
</document>
