<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-13
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-01-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B01L3/00,G01N15/00,G01N15/10,G01N15/14,G01N33/483,G01N35/00,G02B21/16,G02B21/26,G06K9/00,G06K9/03,G06K9/46,H04N5/225
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MIT (MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GIERAHN, TODD
LOVE, J., CHRISTOPHER
STOCKDALE, ALAN
ADALSTEINSSON, VIKTOR A.
LOGINOV, DENIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55453259
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems, methods, and apparatus for in vitro single-cell identification and recovery
</title>

<abstract>
Described herein are systems, methods, and apparatus for automatically identifying and recovering individual cells of interest from a sample of biological matter, e.g., a biological fluid. Also described are methods of enriching a cell type of interest. These systems, methods, and apparatus allow for coordinated performance of two or more of the following, e.g., all with the same device, thereby enabling high throughput: cell enrichment, cell identification, and individual cell recovery for further analysis (e.g., sequencing) of individual recovered cells.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system for automated identification and recovery of individual cells of interest, the system comprising: a microscope comprising a light source, an optical train, and a detector capable of imaging a deposition-well plate positioned on a motorized stage; a motorized stage and a set of actuators configured to translate the stage in a first direction and a second direction in a horizontal plane; a motorized focus drive to translate an optical objective of the microscope in a vertical direction; a micromanipulator arm comprising an actuator configured for constrained movement of the micromanipulator arm in the vertical direction to calibrate a location of a capillary needle within an imaging field of view of the detector, wherein the capillary needle is removably fastened/fastenable to the micromanipulator arm and oriented in the vertical direction; one or more deposition-well plates comprising one or more sample wells and/or one or more recovery wells, wherein the deposition-well plates are removably attached/attachable to the motorized stage; and a processor of a computing device, wherein the processor is configured to send a series of control signals to cause: (i) the microscope to capture an image of a first sample well, wherein the processor is further configured to analyze the image to identify a location of an individual cell of interest within the first sample well; (ii) the set of actuators to translate the motorized stage according to the identified location of the individual cell of interest within the first sample well, such that the capillary needle is oriented above the individual cell of interest; (iii) the actuator to translate, in the vertical direction, the micromanipulator arm to orient a tip of the capillary needle in the first sample well at or sufficiently near the individual cell of interest; (iv) introduction of a volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest into the capillary needle; (v) the actuator to translate, in the vertical direction, the micromanipulator arm such that the capillary needle containing the volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest is raised out of the first sample well; (vi) the set of actuators to translate the motorized stage, such that the capillary needle containing the volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest is oriented above the first recovery well; (vii) the actuator to translate, in the vertical direction, the micromanipulator arm such that the capillary needle containing the volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest is lowered into the first recovery well; and (viii) a release of the volume of fluid thereby depositing the individual cell of interest into the first recovery well; and wherein the processor is configured to perform a multi-point calibration of a surface of the deposition-well plate to correct spatial variations in three-dimensional space, thereby providing a coordinate system enabling the microscope stage and the motorized focus drive to be automatically translated by the processor, wherein the multi-point calibration comprises positioning the motorized stage at positions corresponding to one or more locations of an imaging region of the deposition-well plate; identifying coordinates corresponding to these locations; and using the coordinates to extrapolate one or more points corresponding to one or more additional positions within the imaging region, respectively, thereby correcting for spatial variations of the deposition-well plate.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the capillary needle is or comprises steel, glass, or plastic.
3. The system of claim 1, the system further comprising: a back-light illumination system co-located with the micromanipulator arm and capillary needle and oriented to project light such that the microscope collects sufficient transmitted light to image and analyze the individual cell of interest in this channel.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform an automated search for specific points on the deposition-well plate using a software image analysis algorithm to detect the specific points.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to perform multi-point calibration of imaging focus at one or more select locations of the deposition-well plate using a software autofocus algorithm comprising a focus scoring method and a one-dimensional root-finding algorithm, and extrapolating the multi-point calibration for a plurality of other locations of the deposition-well plate.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to determine a spatial position of the tip of the capillary needle based on one or more needle calibration images.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the introduction of the volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest into the capillary needle and the release of the individual cell of interest into the first recovery well are conducted with or without a working fluid, and/or with or without a micropump.
8. The system of claim 7, wherein the introduction of the volume of fluid comprising the individual cell of interest into the capillary needle and the release of the individual cell of interest into the first recovery well are further controlled by the processor based on an image analysis algorithm and spatial data structure designed to trace locations of individual cells on the first recovery well and/or the capillary needle.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the individual cell of interest is a member selected from the group consisting of a circulating tumor cell (CTC), a lymphocyte, a leukocyte, a tumor cell, a stromal cell, a neuronal cell, a cell line, a stem cell, and an embryo.
10. The system of claim 1, the system comprises a module ("Nanobox") to automatically identify candidate individual cells of interest, present images of candidate cells to a user, and automatically transfer chosen cells into recovery wells.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the system is further configured to detect and present dynamic behaviors of individual cells of interest based on images taken at multiple time points; to trace the locations of individual cells of interest over time; and to resolve potential duplicates amongst candidate cells of interest due to an overlap between adjacent images.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is further configured with a module to define an optimal set of fluorescence intensity thresholds based on statistical and/or visual analysis performed simultaneously with loading and processing of images; and/or to simultaneously present the images under screen cursor in all channels and mark by a user locations of true positive individual cells of interest that are either detected correctly or missed by the processor.
13. The system of claim 1, wherein the cell of interest is a Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cell.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the module identifies individual cells of interest based on cell morphology.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the module presents images of candidate cells to a user assisted by a machine learning algorithm.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the machine learning algorithm is configured to suggest individual cells of interest.
</claims>
</document>
