<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N3/08,G06Q10/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MAPLEBEAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOTHE, OLIVER
HSIEH, JONATHAN
STANLEY, JEREMY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69177464
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Populating catalog data with item properties based on segmentation and classification models
</title>

<abstract>
A method for populating an inventory catalog includes receiving an image showing an item in the inventory catalog and comprising a plurality of pixels. A machine learned segmentation neural network is retrieved to determine location of pixels in an image that are associated with an image label and the property. The method determines a subset of pixels associated with the item label in the received image and identifies locations of the subset of pixels of the received image, and extracts the subset of pixels from the received image. The method retrieves a machine learned classifier to determine whether an image shows the item label. The method determines, using the machine learned classifier, that the extracted subset of pixels shows the item label. The method updates the inventory catalog for the item to indicate that the item has the property associated with the item label.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for populating an inventory catalog, the method comprising: accessing an image of an item and an item identifier from a record in an inventory catalog datastore., the image comprising a plurality of pixels, the inventory catalog datastore comprising records about properties of items available to add to an order, the record associated with the item identifier missing one or more properties of the item, wherein each property is a standardized attribute used to compare items; retrieving a machine learned segmentation neural network trained, based on a set of images and associated properties, to determine locations of pixels in an image that are associated with an item label on the item indicating a property; determining, using the machine learned segmentation neural network, a subset of pixels associated with the item label in the accessed image and identifying locations of the subset of pixels of the accessed image; extracting the subset of pixels from the accessed image; retrieving a machine learned classifier trained, based on a set of images of the item label, to determine whether an image shows the item label; determining, using the machine learned classifier, that the extracted subset of pixels shows the item label, wherein the item label indicates a property missing from the record for the item; and updating the record associated with the accessed item identifier for the item in the inventory catalog datastore to indicate that the item has the property associated with the item label.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learned segmentation neural network is a convolutional neural network, and is trained, using machine learning, based in part on a plurality of images of item labels on items in a warehouse.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learned segmentation neural network is a U-Net neural network.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, using the machine learned segmentation neural network, a plurality of subsets of pixels and pixel locations in the image that are associated with a plurality of item labels, and retrieving the plurality of subsets of pixels from the image; and retrieving a plurality of machine learned classifiers, wherein each of the machine learned classifiers is trained to determine whether each subset of pixels shows a single item label in a plurality of item labels.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the machine learned classifier is a convolutional neural network, and is trained, using machine learning, based in part on a plurality of images of item labels in a warehouse.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the property associated with the item label is at least one of: USDA Organic, International Organic, non-GMO, gluten-free, Kosher, Certified B Corporation, and Vegan.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, using the machine learned classifier, a confidence score of the property associated with the subset of pixels of the image; and updating the record associated with the accessed item identifier in the inventory catalog datastore with the property if the confidence score is above a threshold.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein at least a subset of item identifiers in the inventory catalog datastore are each associated with a plurality of images of an item in a warehouse, and wherein the plurality of images are included in the set of images and the set of images of the item label.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising: selecting the image associated with the item identifier in the inventory catalog datastore based on the one or more properties missing from the record for the item identifier.
10. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium storing instructions for predicting inventory availability, the instructions when executed causing a processor to: accessing an image of an item and an item identifier from a record in an inventory catalog datastore, the image comprising a plurality of pixels, the inventory catalog datastore comprising records about properties of items available to add to an order, the record associated with the item identifier missing one or more properties of the item, wherein each property is a standardized attribute used to compare items; retrieving a machine learned segmentation neural network trained, based on a set of images and associated properties, to determine locations of pixels in an image that are associated with an item label on the item indicating a property; determining, using the machine learned segmentation neural network, a subset of pixels associated with the item label in the accessed image and identifying locations of the subset of pixels of the accessed image; extracting the subset of pixels from the accessed image; retrieving a machine learned classifier trained, based on a set of images of the item label, to determine whether an image shows the item label; determining, using the machine learned classifier, that the extracted subset of pixels shows the item label, wherein the item label indicates a property missing from the record for the item; and updating the record associated with the accessed item identifier in the inventory catalog datastore to include the property associated with the item label.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the machine learned segmentation neural network is a convolutional neural network, and is trained, using machine learning, based in part on a plurality of images of item labels on items in a warehouse.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the machine learned segmentation neural network is a U-Net neural network.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising: determining, using the machine learned segmentation neural network, a plurality of subsets of pixels and pixel locations in the image that are associated with a plurality of item labels, and retrieving the plurality of subsets of pixels from the image; and retrieving a plurality of machine learned classifiers, wherein each of the machine learned classifiers is trained to determine whether each subset of pixels shows a single item label in a plurality of item labels.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the machine learned classifier is a convolutional neural network, and is trained, using machine learning, based in part on a plurality of images of item labels in a warehouse.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein the property associated with the item label is at least one of: USDA Organic, International Organic, non-GMO, gluten-free, Kosher, Certified B Corporation, and Vegan.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising: determining, using the machine learned classifier, a confidence score of the property associated with the subset of pixels of the image; and updating the record associated with the accessed item identifier in the inventory catalog datastore with the property if the confidence score is above a threshold.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, wherein at least a subset of item identifiers in the inventory catalog datastore are each associated with a plurality of images of an item in a warehouse, and wherein the plurality of images are included in the set of images and the set of images of the item label.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 10, further comprising: selecting the image associated with the item identifier in the inventory catalog datastore based on the one or more properties missing from the record for the item identifier.
</claims>
</document>
