<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-12
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-29
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B13/02,G01C23/00,G08G5/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOEING COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
Shu-Zhong Cabos, Ralf Rene
Schulze, Jonas
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74039759
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
WAKE VORTEX SEPARATION DETERMINATION
</title>

<abstract>
Techniques for updating wake separation distance between aircraft are described. A sensors mesh within a flight path of an aircraft is used to detect when a wake vortex from the aircraft has drifted onto the sensor mesh. A minimum wake separation distance and separation interval for following aircraft are determined based on the various sensor measurements, environmental conditions, and aircraft properties. The minimum wake separation distance and separation interval are used to minimize aircraft separation distances between aircraft that are required due to wake vortex turbulence caused by aircraft during flight.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for wake separation distance comprising: detecting, at a first time, an aircraft passing a first point associated with a plurality of mesh sensors; receiving at least one aircraft property for the aircraft; receiving at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a vertical drift of a wake vortex from the aircraft using the first time, the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, and the at least one aircraft property; determining, based on the vertical drift of the wake vortex, a minimum wake separation distance for a next aircraft; and updating a separation interval for the next aircraft based on the minimum wake separation distance.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of mesh sensors comprise: one or more vertical air flow sensors, wherein: the one or more vertical air flow sensors are positioned proximate to a runway and along an aircraft path for the runway, and the one or more vertical air flow sensors are further positioned to sense air flow associated with a wake vortex.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one aircraft property comprises one or more of: a lift of the aircraft at the first time; a speed of the aircraft at the first time; an altitude of the aircraft at the first time; an estimated current weight of the aircraft at the first time; or an aircraft type of the aircraft.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the vertical drift of the wake vortex from the aircraft comprises: receiving environmental conditions data from at least one environmental sensor; comparing the environmental conditions data to the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; detecting based on the comparison, one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a second time based on the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, wherein the second time indicates the wake vortex has drifted into the one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining an elapsed time between the first time and the second time; and calculating the vertical drift of the wake vortex based on a height of the aircraft above the plurality of mesh sensors at the first time and the elapsed time.
5. The method of claim 4, further comprising: storing wake vortex data comprising: an identification of the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; a set of time-stamped sensor measurements from the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; environmental conditions from the environmental conditions data at the second time; a current position of the aircraft at the second time; and an altitude of the aircraft at the second time.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: providing a plurality of time-stamped sensor measurements, environmental conditions data, and the determined vertical drift of the wake vortex to a machine learning module; receiving a prediction model from the machine learning module; predicting, using the prediction model a predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex based on the at least one aircraft property, and the environmental conditions data; and determining the minimum wake separation distance based on the predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex.
7. The method of claim 1, the method further comprising: transmitting, via an air traffic control module, the updated separation interval to the next aircraft.
8. A system for wake separation distance comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising instructions which, when executed on the processor, performs an operation, the operation comprising: detecting, at a first time, an aircraft passing a first point associated with a plurality of mesh sensors; receiving at least one aircraft property for the aircraft; receiving at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a vertical drift of a wake vortex from the aircraft using the first time, the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, and the at least one aircraft property; determining, based on the vertical drift of the wake vortex, a minimum wake separation distance for a next aircraft; and updating a separation interval for the next aircraft based on the minimum wake separation distance.
9. The system of claim 8, wherein the plurality of mesh sensors comprise: one or more vertical air flow sensors, wherein: the one or more vertical air flow sensors are positioned proximate to a runway and along an aircraft path for the runway, and the one or more vertical air flow sensors are further positioned to measure a plurality of wake vortex air flows.
10. The system of claim 8, wherein the at least one aircraft property comprises one or more of: a lift of the aircraft at the first time; a speed of the aircraft at the first time; an altitude of the aircraft at the first time; an estimated current weight of the aircraft at the first time; or an aircraft type of the aircraft.
11. The system of claim 8, wherein determining the vertical drift of the wake vortex from the aircraft comprises: receiving environmental conditions data from at least one environmental sensor; comparing the environmental conditions data to the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; detecting based on the comparison, one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a second time based on the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, wherein the second time indicates the wake vortex has drifted into the one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining an elapsed time between the first time and the second time; and calculating the vertical drift of the wake vortex based on a height of the aircraft above the plurality of mesh sensors at the first time and the elapsed time.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the operation further comprises: storing wake vortex data comprising: an identification of the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; a set of time-stamped sensor measurements from the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; environmental conditions from the environmental conditions data at the second time; a current position of the aircraft at the second time; and an altitude of the aircraft at the second time.
13. The system of claim 8, wherein the operation further comprises: providing a plurality of time-stamped sensor measurements, environmental conditions data, and the determined vertical drift of the wake vortex to a machine learning module; receiving a prediction model from the machine learning module; predicting a predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex based on the prediction model, the at least one aircraft property, and the environmental conditions data; and determining the minimum wake separation distance based on the predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex.
14. The system of claim 8, wherein the operation further comprises: transmitting, via an air traffic control module, the updated separation interval to the next aircraft.
15. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium comprising computer-executable code that, when executed by a processor of a processing system, cause the processor to perform a method, the method comprising: detecting, at a first time, an aircraft passing a first point associated with a plurality of mesh sensors; receiving at least one aircraft property for the aircraft; receiving at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a vertical drift of a wake vortex from the aircraft using the first time, the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, and the at least one aircraft property; determining, based on the vertical drift of the wake vortex, a minimum wake separation distance for a next aircraft; and updating a separation interval for the next aircraft based on the minimum wake separation distance.
16. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the plurality of mesh sensors comprise: one or more vertical air flow sensors, wherein: the one or more vertical air flow sensors are positioned proximate to a runway and along an aircraft path for the runway, and the one or more vertical air flow sensors are further positioned to measure a plurality of wake vortex air flows.
17. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the at least one aircraft property comprises one or more of: a lift of the aircraft at the first time; a speed of the aircraft at the first time; an altitude of the aircraft at the first time; an estimated current weight of the aircraft at the first time; or an aircraft type of the aircraft.
18. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein determining the vertical drift of the wake vortex from the aircraft comprises: receiving environmental conditions data from at least one environmental sensor; comparing the environmental conditions data to the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement from the plurality of mesh sensors; detecting based on the comparison, one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining a second time based on the at least one time-stamped sensor measurement, wherein the second time indicates the wake vortex has drifted into the one or more wake vortex affected sensors of the plurality of mesh sensors; determining an elapsed time between the first time and the second time; and calculating the vertical drift of the wake vortex based on a height of the aircraft above the plurality of mesh sensors at the first time and the elapsed time.
19. The computer-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the method further comprises: storing wake vortex data comprising: an identification of the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; a set of time-stamped sensor measurements from the one or more wake vortex affected sensors; environmental conditions from the environmental conditions data at the second time; a current position of the aircraft at the second time; and an altitude of the aircraft at the second time.
20. The computer-readable medium of claim 15, wherein the method further comprises: providing a plurality of time-stamped sensor measurements, environmental conditions data, and the determined vertical drift of the wake vortex to a machine learning module; receiving a prediction model from the machine learning module; predicting a predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex using the prediction model, the at least one aircraft property, and the environmental conditions data; and determining the minimum wake separation distance based on the predicted vertical drift of the wake vortex.
</claims>
</document>
