<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/15,G06F17/16,G06K9/66,G06N20/00,G06N3/04,G06N3/06,G06N3/08,G06T15/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ALIBABA GROUP
</assignee>

<inventors>
WANG LIN
ZHANG, HAITAO
LIU, YONGCHAO
HUANG, QIYIN
XU, JIANGUO
LI, SIZHONG
PAN, GUOZHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66850328
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
FAST COMPUTATION OF A CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes obtaining a trained convolutional neural network comprising one or more convolutional layers, each of the one or more convolutional layers comprising a plurality of filters with known filter parameters; pre-computing a reusable factor for each of the one or more convolutional layers based on the known filter parameters of the trained convolutional neural network; receiving input data to the trained convolutional neural network; computing an output of the each of the one or more convolutional layers using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the pre-computed reusable factor and the input data; and determining output data of the trained convolutional network based on the output of the each of the one or more convolutional layers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: obtaining, by a data processing apparatus, a trained convolutional neural network comprising at least a first convolutional layer and a second convolutional layer, each of the at least the first convolutional layer and the second convolutional layer comprising a corresponding plurality of filters with known filter parameters; pre-computing, by the data processing apparatus, a first reusable factor for the first convolutional layer based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; pre-computing, by the data processing apparatus, a second reusable factor for the second convolutional layer based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; identifying, by the data processing apparatus, a first input data to the first convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; computing, by the data processing apparatus, a first output of the first convolutional layer using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data; using, by the data processing apparatus, the first output as a second input data to the second convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; and computing, by the data processing apparatus, a second output of the second convolutional layer using the Winograd convolutional operator based on the second reusable factor and the second input data.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising saving the first reusable factor for the first convolutional layer.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein computing a first output of the first convolutional layer using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data comprises computing the first output of the first convolutional layer according to a Winograd minimal filtering algorithm with the first reusable factor and the first input data.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the first input data to the trained convolutional neural network comprises one or more images.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the data processing apparatus, output data of the trained convolutional neural network based on the second output of the second convolutional layer.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising outputting output data of the trained convolutional neural network via a user interface.
7. A non-transitory, computer-readable medium storing one or more instructions executable by a computer system to perform operations comprising: obtaining a trained convolutional neural network comprising at least a first convolutional layer and a second convolutional layer, each of the at least the first convolutional layer and the second convolutional layer comprising a corresponding plurality of filters with known filter parameters; pre-computing a first reusable factor for the first convolutional layers based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; pre-computing a second reusable factor for the second convolutional layer based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; identifying a first input data to the first convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; computing a first output of the first convolutional layer using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data; using the first output as a second input data to the second convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; and computing a second output of the second convolutional layer using the Winograd convolutional operator based on the second reusable factor and the second input data.
8. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, the operations further comprising saving the first reusable factor for the first convolutional layer.
9. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein computing a first output of the first convolutional layer using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data comprises computing the first output of the first convolutional layer according to a Winograd minimal filtering algorithm with the first reusable factor and the first input data.
10. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, wherein the first input data to the trained convolutional neural network comprises one or more images.
11. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, the operations further comprising: determining output data of the trained convolutional neural network based on the second output of the second convolutional layer.
12. The non-transitory, computer-readable medium of claim 7, the operations further comprising outputting output data of the trained convolutional neural network via a user interface.
13. A computer-implemented system, comprising: one or more computers; and one or more computer memory devices interoperably coupled with the one or more computers and having tangible, non-transitory, machine-readable media storing instructions, that when executed by the one or more computers, perform operations comprising: obtaining a trained convolutional neural network comprising at least a first convolutional layer and a second convolutional layer, each of the at least the first convolutional layer and the second convolutional layer comprising a corresponding plurality of filters with known filter parameters; pre-computing a first reusable factor for the first convolutional layer based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; pre-computing a second reusable factor for the second convolutional layer based on the known filter parameters regardless of any input data to the trained convolutional neural network; identifying a first input data to the first convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; computing a first output of the first convolutional layer using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data; using the first output as a second input data to the second convolutional layer of the trained convolutional neural network; and computing a second output of the second convolutional layer using the Winograd convolutional operator based on the second reusable factor and the second input data.
14. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, the operations further comprising saving the first reusable factor for the first convolutional layer.
15. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, wherein computing a first output of the first convolutional layers using a Winograd convolutional operator based on the first reusable factor and the first input data comprises computing the first output of the first convolutional layer according to a Winograd minimal filtering algorithm with the first reusable factor and the first input data.
16. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, the operations further comprising: determining output data of the trained convolutional neural network based on the second output of the second convolutional layer.
17. The computer-implemented system of claim 13, further comprising a user interface; and the operations further comprising outputting output data of the trained convolutional neural network via the user interface.
</claims>
</document>
