<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T13/40,G06T7/00,G06T7/246,G06T7/73
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
ELECTRONIC ARTS
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARKER, JASON
Yu, Nelson
Hoag, Michael
Murray, Brian T.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74044953
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Multiple character motion capture
</title>

<abstract>
Various aspects of the subject technology relate to systems, methods, and machine-readable media for motion capture. The method includes obtaining a first video with at least one actor, the first video including a first set of movements of the at least one actor. The method also includes obtaining a second video with the at least one actor, the second video including a second set of movements of the at least one actor, the second set of movements correlating with the first set of movements. The method also includes combining the first video with the second video to obtain a combined video, the combined video including the first set of movements and the second set of movements, the first set of movements displayed as outlines.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for motion capture, comprising: recording, through a video capture system comprising at least one camera and at least one display device, a first scene with at least one actor, the first scene comprising a first video of a first set of movements of the at least one actor; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, a second video of the first scene with the at least one actor, the second video comprising a live video of a first take of a second set of movements of the at least one actor, the second set of movements correlating with the first set of movements; combining, through a user interface of the video capture system, the first video with the second video to obtain a combined video, the combined video comprising the first set of movements and the second set of movements, the first set of movements of the respective at least one actor displayed differently than the live video of the first take of the second set of movements; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, the combined video of the first set of movements displayed differently than the live video of the second set of movements, the displaying of the combined video enabling a comparison of the second set of movements in the first take with the first set of movements; recording, through the video capture system, a final video comprising a second take of the second set of movements based on the comparison of the second set of movements with the first set of movements; and deleting, from the final video, actor data of the at least one actor in at least a portion of the first scene.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: monitoring the first video and the second video to ensure correlation of the first set of movements with the second set of movements.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the combining comprises: tiling the first video with the second video.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: obtaining a third video with the at least one actor, the third video comprising a third set of movements of the at least one actor, the third set of movements correlating with the first set of movements and the second set of movements.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, further comprising: combining the third video with the first video and the second video to obtain the combined video.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein obtaining the second video comprises: adjusting the second set of movements to correlate with the first set of movements.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: translating the combined video into an animated sequence.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one actor portrays a first character in the first video and a second character in the second video, the first character different from the second character.
9. A system for motion capture, comprising: a processor; and a memory comprising instructions stored thereon, which when executed by the processor, causes the processor to perform: recording, through a video capture system comprising at least one camera and at least one display device, a first scene with at least one actor, the first scene comprising a first video of a first set of movements of the at least one actor; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, a second video of the first scene with the at least one actor, the second video comprising a live video of a first take of a second set of movements of the at least one actor, the second set of movements correlating with the first set of movements; combining, through a user interface of the video capture system, the first video with the second video to obtain a combined video, the combined video comprising the first set of movements and the second set of movements, the first set of movements of the respective at least one actor displayed differently than the live video of the first take of the second set of movements; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, the combined video of the first set of movements displayed differently than the live video of the second set of movements, the displaying of the combined video enabling a comparison of the second set of movements in the first take with the first set of movements; recording, through the video capture system, a final video comprising a second take of the second set of movements based on the comparison of the second set of movements with the first set of movements; and deleting, from the final video, actor data of the at least one actor in at least a portion of the first scene.
10. The system of claim 9, further comprising stored sequences of instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform: monitoring the first video and the second video to ensure correlation of the first set of movements with the second set of movements.
11. The system of claim 9, further comprising stored sequences of instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform: tiling the first video with the second video.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the combining comprises: obtaining a third video with the at least one actor, the third video comprising a third set of movements of the at least one actor, the third set of movements correlating with the first set of movements and the second set of movements.
13. The system of claim 12, further comprising stored sequences of instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform: combining the third video with the first video and the second video to obtain the combined video.
14. The system of claim 9, further comprising stored sequences of instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform: adjusting the second set of movements to correlate with the first set of movements.
15. The system of claim 9, further comprising stored sequences of instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform: translating the combined video into an animated sequence.
16. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium is provided including instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform a method for motion capture, comprising: recording, through a video capture system comprising at least one camera and at least one display device, a first scene with at least one actor, the first scene comprising a first video of a first set of movements of the at least one actor; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, a second video of the first scene with the at least one actor, the second video comprising a live video of a first take of a second set of movements of the at least one actor, the second set of movements correlating with the first set of movements; combining, through a user interface of the video capture system, the first video with the second video to obtain a combined video, the combined video comprising the first set of movements and the second set of movements, the first set of movements of the respective at least one actor displayed differently than the live video of the first take of the second set of movements; displaying, through the at least one display device of the video capture system, the combined video of the first set of movements displayed differently than the live video of the second set of movements, the displaying of the combined video enabling a comparison of the second set of movements in the first take with the first set of movements; recording, through the video capture system, a final video comprising a second take of the second set of movements based on the comparison of the second set of movements with the first set of movements; and deleting, from the final video, actor data of the at least one actor in at least a portion of the first scene.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: monitoring the first video and the second video to ensure correlation of the first set of movements with the second set of movements.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: tiling the first video with the second video.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: obtaining a third video with the at least one actor, the third video comprising a third set of movements of the at least one actor, the third set of movements correlating with the first set of movements and the second set of movements.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the method further comprises: combining the third video with the first video and the second video to obtain the combined video.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the method further comprises: adjusting the second set of movements to correlate with the first set of movements.
</claims>
</document>
