<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-15
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04M1/60,H04W76/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AMAZON TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
JORGOVANOVIC, MILOS
BATTA, GANESHA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70161827
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bidirectional sending and receiving of wireless data
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method includes a first audio device (e.g., a primary wireless earbud) connected to a second audio-output device (e.g., a secondary wireless earbud) using a first wireless connection. The first audio device is also connected to a user device (e.g., a smartphone or smart watch) using a second wireless connection. The second audio device receives data, such as packets, sent from the third device to the first device by monitoring the second wireless connection. If the second audio device does not determine that the first audio device sent a corresponding acknowledgement message (i.e., the first audio device did not receive a packet), the second audio device sends the acknowledgement message and sends the packet to the first audio device.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising: establishing a first Bluetooth connection between a primary earbud and a secondary earbud; receiving, at the primary earbud and at the secondary earbud, a Bluetooth signal output by a smartphone; establishing a second Bluetooth connection between the primary earbud and the smartphone; sending, by the primary earbud to the secondary earbud, information associated with the second Bluetooth connection, the information including Bluetooth channel information, a Bluetooth link key, and Bluetooth address of the primary earbud; receiving, at the secondary earbud a first data packet sent by the smartphone; determining, by the secondary earbud, a first time period allocated to send a first acknowledgement message, the first acknowledgement message being indicative of receipt of the first data packet by the primary earbud; determining, by the secondary earbud during a second time period prior to a beginning of the first time period, that the first acknowledgement message was not sent; sending, by the secondary earbud to the smartphone during a third time period after the beginning of the first time period, a second acknowledgement message, the second acknowledgement message including the Bluetooth address of the primary earbud; and sending, by the secondary earbud and via the first Bluetooth connection, the first data packet to the primary earbud.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the primary earbud during a fourth time period after the third time period, a second data packet sent from the smartphone; determining, using the primary earbud, a fifth time period allocated to send a third acknowledgement message, the second acknowledgement message being indicative of receipt of the second data packet; sending, using the primary earbud during a sixth time period prior to the beginning of the fifth time period, the third acknowledgement message to the smartphone, the third acknowledgement message including the Bluetooth address; and sending, using the primary earbud the second data packet to the secondary earbud.
3. A computer-implemented method, the method comprising: establishing a first wireless connection between a first audio device and a second audio device; establishing a second wireless connection between the first audio device and a user device; receiving, at the second audio device from the first audio device, a wireless address corresponding to the first audio device; receiving, at the second audio device, first data from the user device; determining, by the second audio device, a first time period allocated to send a first acknowledgement message, the first acknowledgement message being indicative of receipt of the first data; determining, using the second audio device during a second time period prior to a beginning of the first time period, that the first acknowledgement message was not sent; sending, by the second audio device to the user device during a third time period after the beginning of the first time period, a second acknowledgement message, the second acknowledgement message including the wireless address; and sending, using the second audio device, the first data to the first audio device.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, at the first audio device during a fourth time period after the third time period, second data from the user device; sending, using the first audio device during a fifth time period, a third acknowledgement message to the user device, the third acknowledgement message including the wireless address; and sending, using the first audio device during a sixth time period after the fifth time period, the second data to the second audio device.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: receiving, at the second audio device, second data sent from the user device to the first audio device; determining a first priority corresponding to the first data; and determining a second priority corresponding to the second data; wherein sending the first data is based at least in part on the first priority being higher than the second priority.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein: the second time period includes a first time approximately five microseconds before the beginning of the first time period, and the third time period includes a second time approximately five microseconds after the beginning of the first time period.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: determining, by the second audio device, that, during a fourth time period, the user device is sending second data to the first audio device; and determining, by the second audio device, that, during a fifth time period, the user device is not sending third data to the first audio device.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein sending the second acknowledgement message further comprises: sending, during the third time period, a preamble of the second acknowledgement message; and sending, during a sixth time period after the third time period, an indication of the first data, wherein a duration of the third time period is approximately ten microseconds.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: sending, from the second audio device to the first audio device, a first indication of the first data; determining, by the first audio device based on the first indication, that the first audio device did not receive the first data; and sending, from the first audio device to the second audio device, a request for the first data.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: determining, using the first audio device during the second time period, that the second acknowledgement message was not sent; sending, from the first audio device to the user device, a first non-acknowledgement message; and receiving, at the first audio device from the user device, a copy of the first data.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, further comprising: prior to receiving the first data, receiving, at the second audio device, security information from the first audio device; and determining, at the second audio device using the security information, audio data corresponding to the first data.
12. A system comprising: at least one processor; and at least one memory including instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the system to: establish a first wireless connection between a first audio device and a second audio device; establish a second wireless connection between the first audio device and a user device; receive, at the first audio device from the user device, a wireless address corresponding to the first audio device; receive, at the first audio device, first data from the user device; determine, by the first audio device, a first time period allocated to send a first acknowledgement message, the first acknowledgement message being indicative of receipt of the first data; determine, using the first audio device during a second time period prior to a beginning of the first time period, that the first acknowledgement message was not sent; send, by the first audio device to the user device during a third time period after the beginning of the first time period, a second acknowledgement message, the second acknowledgement message including the wireless address; and send, using the first audio device, the first data to the second audio device.
13. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, at the second audio device during a fourth time period after the third time period, second data from the user device; send, using the second audio device during a fifth time period, a third acknowledgement message to the user device, the third acknowledgement message including the wireless address; and send, using the second audio device during a sixth time period after the fifth time period, the second data to the first audio device.
14. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: receive, at the first audio device, second data sent from the user device to the first audio device; determine a first priority corresponding to the first data; and determine a second priority corresponding to the second data; wherein sending the first data is based at least in part on the first priority being higher than the second priority.
15. The system of claim 12, wherein: the second time period includes a first time approximately five microseconds before the beginning of the first time period, and the third time period includes a second time approximately five microseconds after the beginning of the first time period.
16. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine, by the first audio device, that, during a fourth time period, the user device is sending second data to the first audio device; and determine, by the first audio device, that, during fourth fifth time period, the user device is not sending third data to the first audio device.
17. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: send, during the third time period, a preamble of the second acknowledgement message; and send, during a sixth time period after the third time period, an indication of the first data, wherein a duration of the third time period is approximately ten microseconds.
18. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: send, from the first audio device to the second audio device, a first indication of the first data; determine, by the second audio device based on the first indication, that the second audio device did not receive the first data; and send, from the second audio device to the first audio device, a request for the first data.
19. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: determine, using the second audio device during the second time period, that the second acknowledgement message was not sent; send, from the second audio device to the user device, a first non-acknowledgement message; and receive, at the second audio device from the user device, a copy of the first data.
20. The system of claim 12, wherein the at least one memory further includes instructions that, when executed by the at least one processor, further cause the system to: prior to receiving the first data, receive, at the first audio device, security information from the user device; and determine, at the first audio device using the security information, audio data corresponding to the first data.
</claims>
</document>
