<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-04-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B10/25,H04B10/60,H04J14/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
HASSAN, AMER AREF
CHEN, WEI-CHEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70465232
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Unequal decision regions for throughput increases for optical communications
</title>

<abstract>
Disclosed in some examples, are optical devices, systems, and machine-readable mediums that send and receive multiple streams of data across a same optical communication path (e.g., a same fiber optic fiber) with a same wavelength using different light sources transmitting at different power levels—thereby increasing the bandwidth of each optical communication path. Each light source corresponding to each stream transmits at a same frequency and on the same optical communication path using a different power level. The receiver differentiates the data for each stream by applying one or more detection models to the photon counts observed at the receiver to determine likely bit assignments for each stream.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for receiving optical signals at a receiver, the method comprising: using hardware processing circuitry: determining a count of photons hitting a photon detector during a detection period and for a particular light frequency, the photons produced from transmission of respective first and second bitstreams transmitted on a same frequency and across a same optical communication path to the photon detector during the detection period; and determining a first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and a second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a plurality of photon count decision regions given the photon count, each of the plurality of photon count decision regions corresponding to respective different bit value assignment combinations for the first and second bit streams and wherein a first decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions has a different decision range than a second decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions, the decision ranges of each decision region being a range of photon counts which have corresponding probabilities that are greater than a threshold probability.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and thg second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a pluralitv of photon count decision regions given the photon count comprises: determining, for each of the plurality of photon count decision regions, a probability given the photon count; selecting the photon count decision region with a greatest probability given the photon count; and assigning a value to the first and second bit streams that corresponds with a bit assignment corresponding to the selected photon count decision region.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of photon count decision regions are described by Poisson probability distributions created from a plurality of average photon counts received at the receiver during a training period.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: updating the plurality of photon count decision regions using a training process, wherein the training process changes a range of at least one of the plurality of photon count decision regions.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: instructing a first light source to transmit at a first power level and a second light source to transmit at a second power level.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the optical communication path is a single fiber optic fiber.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the optical communication path is a spatial alignment of a first transmitter that transmits the first bit stream and a photon detector of the receiver and a spatial alignment of a second transmitter that transmits the second bit stream and the photon detector.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first bit stream is transmitted by a first light source at a first power level and the second bit stream is transmitted by a second light source at a second power level.
9. A device for receiving optical signals, the device comprising: hardware processing circuitry configured to perform operations comprising: determining a count of photons hitting a photon detector during a detection period and for a particular light frequency, the photons produced from transmission of respective first and second bitstreams transmitted on a same frequency and across a same optical communication path to the photon detector during the detection period; and determining a first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and a second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a plurality of photon count decision regions given they of photon count, each of the plurality of photon count decision regions corresponding to respective different bit value assignment combinations for the first and second bit streams and wherein a first decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions has a different decision range than a second decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions, the decision ranges of each decision region being a range of photon counts which have corresponding probabilities that are greater than a threshold probability.
10. The device of claim 9, wherein the operations of determining the first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and the second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a plurality of photon count decision regions given the photon count comprises: determining, for each of the plurality of photon count decision regions, a probability given the photon count; selecting the photon count decision region with a greatest probability given the photon count; and assigning a value to the first and second bit streams that corresponds with a bit assignment corresponding to the selected photon count decision region.
11. The device of claim 10, wherein the plurality of photon count decision regions are described by Poisson probability distributions created from a plurality of average photon counts received at the receiver during a training period.
12. The device of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: updating the plurality of photon count decision regions using a training process, wherein the training process changes a range of at least one of the plurality of photon count decision regions.
13. The device of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: instructing a first light source to transmit at a first power level and a second light source to transmit at a second power level.
14. The device of claim 9, wherein the optical communication path is a single fiber optic fiber.
15. The device of claim 9, wherein the optical communication path is a spatial alignment of a first transmitter that transmits the first bit stream and a photon detector of the receiver and a spatial alignment of a second transmitter that transmits the second bit stream and the photon detector.
16. The device of claim 9, wherein the first bit stream is transmitted by a first light source at a first power level and the second bit stream is transmitted by a second light source at a second power level.
17. A device for receiving optical signals, the device comprising: means for determining a count of photons hitting a photon detector during a detection period and for a particular light frequency, the photons produced from transmission of respective first and second bitstreams transmitted on a same frequency and across a same optical communication path to the photon detector during the detection period; and means for determining a first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and a second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a plurality of photon count decision regions given the photon count, each of the plurality of photon count decision regions corresponding to respective different bit value assignment combinations for the first and second bit streams and wherein a first decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions has a different decision range than a second decision region of the plurality of photon count decision regions, the decision ranges of each decision region being a range of photon counts which have corresponding probabilities that are greater than a threshold probability.
18. The device of claim 17, wherein the means for determining the first bit value assignment for the first bit stream and the second bit value assignment for the second bit stream based on probabilities calculated for each of a plurality of photon count decision regions given the photon count comprises: means for determining, for each of the plurality of photon count decision regions, a probability given the photon count; means for selecting the photon count decision region with a greatest probability given the photon count; and means for assigning a value to the first and second bit streams that corresponds with a bit assignment corresponding to the selected photon count decision region.
19. The device of claim 18, wherein the plurality of photon count decision regions are described by Poisson probability distributions created from a plurality of average photon counts received at the receiver during a training period.
20. The device of claim 17, wherein the first bit stream is transmitted by a first light source at a first power level and the second bit stream is transmitted by a second light source at a second power level.
</claims>
</document>
