<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-21
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/242,G06F16/28,G06F16/33,G06F16/332,G06F16/36,G06F17/27,G06F17/30
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BULL, BRENDAN C.
CARRIER, SCOTT R.
EZEN CAN, AYSU
MANSJUR, DWI SIANTO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64458243
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Relation extraction using Q and A
</title>

<abstract>
Embodiments of the present invention disclose a method, a computer program product, and a computer system for extracting natural language relations between entities. A computer receives a configuration for associating one or more natural language questions with one or more entities and identifies the one or more entities annotated within a document. The computer answers the natural language questions associated with the identified one or more entities based on context surrounding the identified one or more entities. The computer may further transmit the natural language questions associated with the identified one or more entities and the surrounding context to a question and answer service, then receive answers to the natural language questions from the question and answer service. The computer may further determine whether the received answers correctly describe the relation between the identified one or more entities and other entities within the extracted surrounding context.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of extracting entity relations, wherein the method comprises: receiving, by a computer, one or more preprogrammed questions associated with one or more entities; identifying, by the computer, an entity of the one or more entities annotated within a document; extracting, by the computer, a portion of content in a proximity to the identified entity; determining, by the computer, one or more relations describing an association between the identified entity and one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content based on the extracted portion of content and answering the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity; and determining, by the computer, whether the received one or more relations correctly describe the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities by: receiving, by the computer, an entity class associated with at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; determining, by the computer, whether at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; and based on determining that at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions, determining, by the computer, that the at least one of the received one or more relations is correct based on machine learning tools.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: annotating, by the computer, the document with the determined one or more relations.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content further comprises: transmitting, by the computer, the extracted portion of content and the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity to a question and answer service; and receiving, by the computer, the one or more relations based on the question and answer service answering the one or more preprogrammed questions.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying, by the computer, the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content; and wherein determining the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content is further based on the one or more other entities.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the extracted portion of content is a sentence containing the identified one or more entities.
6. A computer program product for extracting entity relations, the computer program product comprising: one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more non-transitory computer-readable storage media, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive one or more preprogrammed questions associated with one or more entities; program instructions to identify an entity of the one or more entities annotated within a document; program instructions to extract a portion of content in a proximity to the identified entity; and program instructions to determine one or more relations describing an association between the identified entity and one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content based on the extracted portion of content and answering the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity; and program instructions to determine whether the received one or more relations correctly describe the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities by: program instructions to receive an entity class associated with at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; program instructions to determine whether at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; and based on determining that at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions, program instructions to determine that the at least one of the received one or more relations is correct based on machine learning tools.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising: program instructions to annotate the document with the determined one or more relations.
8. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the program instructions to determine the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content further comprises: program instructions to transmit the extracted portion of content and the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity to a question and answer service; and program instructions to receive the one or more relations based on the question and answer service answering the one or more preprogrammed questions.
9. The computer program product of claim 6, further comprising: program instructions to identify the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content; and wherein determining the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content is further based on the one or more other entities.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the extracted portion of content is a sentence containing the identified one or more entities.
11. A computer system for extracting entity relations, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors, one or more computer-readable storage media, and program instructions stored on one or more of the computer-readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the program instructions comprising: program instructions to receive one or more preprogrammed questions associated with one or more entities; program instructions to identify an entity of the one or more entities annotated within a document; program instructions to extract a portion of content in a proximity to the identified entity; and program instructions to determine one or more relations describing an association between the identified entity and one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content based on the extracted portion of content and answering the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity; and program instructions to determine whether the received one or more relations correctly describe the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities by: program instructions to receive an entity class associated with at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; program instructions to determine whether at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions; and based on determining that at least one of the received one or more relations correspond to the entity class associated with the at least one of the one or more preprogrammed questions, program instructions to determine that the at least one of the received one or more relations is correct based on machine learning tools.
12. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising: program instructions to annotate the document with the determined one or more relations.
13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the program instructions to determine the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content further comprises: program instructions to transmit the extracted portion of content and the one or more preprogrammed questions associated with the identified entity to a question and answer service; and program instructions to receive the one or more relations based on the question and answer service answering the one or more preprogrammed questions.
14. The computer system of claim 11, further comprising: program instructions to identify the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content; and wherein determining the one or more relations describing the association between the identified entity and the one or more other entities within the extracted portion of content is further based on the one or more other entities.
</claims>
</document>
