<document>

<filing_date>
2017-06-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00,G06T7/11,G06T7/60
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
</assignee>

<inventors>
GALBAN, CRAIG
HOFF, BENJAMIN A.
ROSS, BRIAN, D.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60572871
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for topographical characterization of medical image data
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented methods are used to analyze a medical image to assess the state of the sample region. In at least one embodiment, the method comprises receiving at least one medical image collected previously from an image source, the at least one medical image comprising a plurality of voxels, each characterized by a signal value; classifying the signal value of each voxel as representing one of healthy tissue or diseased tissue based on a threshold value; and analyzing at least one topographical feature of the at least one medical image.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method of analyzing a medical image to assess the state of the sample region, the method comprising: receiving a medical image collected previously from an image source, the medical image comprising a plurality of voxels, each characterized by a signal value; classifying the signal value of each voxel as representing one of a first disease state or a second disease state by comparing the signal value to a threshold value; and performing a topographical feature analysis on at least one of a first set of voxels representing the first disease state and a second set of voxels representing the second disease state.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is a phasic classification map.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is a parametric response map.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is kinetic parameter map.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the medical image is a diffusion image, a perfusion image, a permeability image, a normalized image, a spectroscopic image, and a quantified image.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the image source is selected from the group consisting of magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, positron emission tomography, ultrasound, single-photon emission computed tomography, and two-dimensional planar x-ray.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the topographical feature is selected from the group consisting of surface area, mean curvature length, the Euler-Poincare characteristic, and a condensed descriptor of aggregation.
8. A computer-implemented method of analyzing a sample region of lung tissue to determine the condition of the sample region, the method comprising: receiving, using a medical imaging device, a first image data set of the sample region during inspiration, the first image data set comprising a first plurality of voxels each characterized by a signal value; receiving, using the medical imaging device, a second image data set of the sample region during expiration, the second image data set comprising a second plurality of voxels each characterized by a signal value; deformably registering the first image data set and the second image data set to produce a co-registered image data set that comprises a plurality of co-registered voxels, wherein each of the co-registered voxels includes the signal value of the voxel associated with the first image data set, and the signal value of the voxel associated with the second image data set; performing a first threshold analysis on the co-registered voxels to identify a first set of co-registered voxels indicating a first disease state; performing a second threshold analysis on the co-registered voxels to identify a second set of co-registered voxels indicating a second disease state; and performing a topographical feature analysis on at least one of the first set of co-registered voxels and the second set of co-registered voxels.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the first set of co-registered voxels comprises co-registered voxels with an inspiration signal value of greater than a threshold value, indicating the absence of emphysematous tissue, and an expiration signal value of less than a threshold value, indicating the presence of air-trapping.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the second set of co-registered voxels comprises co-registered voxels with an inspiration signal value of less than a threshold value, indicating the presence of emphysematous tissue, and an expiration signal value of greater than a threshold value, indicating the absence of air-trapping.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one feature selected from the group consisting of surface area, mean curvature length, the Euler-Poincare characteristic, and a condensed descriptor of aggregation.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one feature selected from the group consisting of surface area, mean curvature length, the Euler-Poincare characteristic, and a condensed descriptor of aggregation.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the medical image device is selected from the group consisting of a magnetic resonance imaging device, computed tomography device, positron emission tomography device, ultrasound device, single-photon emission computed tomography device, and two-dimensional planar x-ray device.
14. A computer-based method for analyzing a parametric response map comprising: receiving a first set of parametric measurement data for a tissue region, the first set of parametric measurement data comprising a plurality of voxels; receiving a subsequent set of parametric measurement data for the tissue region, the subsequent set of parametric measurement data comprising a plurality of voxels; deformably registering the subsequent set of parametric measurement data with the first set of parametric response data; identifying the voxels within the tissue region, on a voxel-by-voxel basis, by at least one classification based on a change in parametric measurement data, using a defined threshold for each classification, wherein each of the changes is determined by comparing voxels of the subsequent set of parametric measurement data to the voxels of the first set of parametric measurement data; and performing at least one topographical feature analysis of the voxels for at least one of the classifications.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one voxel based on surface area.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one voxel based on mean curvature length.
17. The method of claim 14, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one voxel based on the Euler-Poincare characteristic.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the topographical feature analysis quantifies at least one voxel based on a condensed descriptor of aggregation.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the parametric measurement data is displayed as a phasic classification map, a parametric response map, a kinetic parameter map, a diffusion image, a perfusion image, a permeability image, a normalized image, a spectroscopic image, and a quantified image.
20. The method of claim 14, wherein the parametric measurement data is retrieved from a medical image selected from the group consisting of a diffusion image, a perfusion image, a permeability image, a normalized image, a spectroscopic image, a kinetic parameter map, a quantified image, a parametric response map, and a phasic classification map.
</claims>
</document>
