<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-19
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T11/20,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SZIGETI, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70726841
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Bifocal timeline graphs for network analytics
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods provide for a bifocal timescales graph for viewing a network health history at a single glance.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving performance data from a network, the performance data including measurements associated with respective times of measurement; identifying portions of the performance data based on the respective times of measurement; generating a first portion of a trend line for a first portion of the identified portions, the first portion of the identified portions correlating to measurements associated with most recent respective times of measurement, the first portion of the trend line being mapped linearly; generating a second portion of the trend line for a second portion of the of the identified portions, the second portion of the trend line correlating to measurements associated with respective times of measurements before most recent respective times of measurement, the second portion of the trend line being mapped less linearly than the first portion of the trend line; and displaying a bifocal graph comprising the trend line.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating one or more additional portions of the trend line for one or more respective additional portions of the identified portions, the one or more respective additional portions correlating to measurements associated with additional times of measurement occurring before the most recent respective times of measurements and after an earliest times of measurement associated with measurements of the second portion; and wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the one or more additional portions of the trend line.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the trend line is a substantially linear and the second portion of the trend line is a substantially logarithmic.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, for each identified portion of the performance data, one of a maximum value or a minimum value; wherein the displayed bifocal graph further comprises each generated maximum value or each generated minimum value.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the performance data is associated with one component of the network.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the first portion of the trend line reflects substantially real-time performance data.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining a maximum value and a minimum value for the second portion of the identified portions, the maximum value correlating to a maximum measured value of the second portion of the identified portions and the minimum value correlating to a minimum measure value of the second portion of the identified portions; wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the maximum value and the minimum value.
8. A non-transitory computer readable medium comprising instructions which, when executed by one or more processors, cause the one or more processors to: receive performance data from a network, the performance data including measurements associated with respective times of measurement; identify portions of the performance data based on the respective times of measurement; generate a first portion of a trend line for a first portion of the identified portions, the first portion of the identified portions correlating to measurements associated with most recent respective times of measurement, the first portion of the trend line being mapped linearly; generate a second portion of the trend line for a second portion of the of the identified portions, the second portion of the trend line correlating to measurements associated with respective times of measurements before most recent respective times of measurement, the second portion of the trend line being mapped less linearly than the first trend line; and display a bifocal graph comprising the trend line.
9. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to: generate one or more additional portions of the trend line for one or more respective additional portions of the identified portions, the one or more respective additional portions correlating to measurements associated with additional times of measurement occurring before the most recent respective times of measurements and after an earliest times of measurement associated with measurements of the second portion; and wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the one or more additional portions of the trend line.
10. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the first portion of the trend line is a substantially linear and the second portion of the trend line is a substantially logarithmic.
11. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to: generate, for each identified portion of the performance data, one of a maximum value or a minimum value; wherein the displayed bifocal graph further comprises each generated maximum value or each generated minimum value.
12. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the performance data is associated with one component of the network.
13. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, wherein the first portion of the trend line reflects substantially real-time performance data.
14. The non-transitory computer readable medium of claim 8, further comprising instructions to: determine a maximum value and a minimum value for the second portion of the identified portions, the maximum value correlating to a maximum measured value of the second portion of the identified portions and the minimum value correlating to a minimum measure value of the second portion of the identified portions; wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the maximum value and the minimum value.
15. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory comprising instructions to: receive performance data from a network, the performance data including measurements associated with respective times of measurement; identify portions of the performance data based on the respective times of measurement; generate a first portion of a trend line for a first portion of the identified portions, the first portion of the identified portions correlating to measurements associated with most recent respective times of measurement, the first portion of the trend line being mapped linearly; generate a second portion of the trend line for a second portion of the of the identified portions, the second portion of the trend line correlating to measurements of the second portion less linearly than the first trend line correlates to measurements associated with respective times of measurements before most recent respective times of measurement, the second portion of the trend line being mapped less linearly than the first portion of the; and display a bifocal graph comprising the trend line.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein the memory further comprises instructions to: generate one or more additional portion of the trend line for one or more respective additional portions of the identified portions, the one or more respective additional portions correlating to measurements associated with additional times of measurement occurring before the most recent respective times of measurements and after an earliest times of measurement associated with measurements of the second portion; and wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the one or more additional portion of the trend line.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the trend line is a substantially linear and the second portion of the trend line is a substantially logarithmic.
18. The system of claim 15, wherein the performance data is associated with one component of the network.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein the first portion of the trend line reflects substantially real-time performance data.
20. The system of claim 15, wherein the memory further comprises instructions to: determine a maximum value and a minimum value for the second portion of the identified portions, the maximum value correlating to a maximum measured value of the second portion of the identified portions and the minimum value correlating to a minimum measure value of the second portion of the identified portions; wherein the bifocal graph further comprises the maximum value and the minimum value.
</claims>
</document>
