<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-15
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F1/16,G06F8/65,G06F9/46,G06F9/48,G06N20/00,G06N5/04,G06N99/00,H04M1/725
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAABORG, ALEXANDER
CHANG, JEFFREY, ALBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53490247
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Inferring periods of non-use of a wearable device
</title>

<abstract>
A wearable computing device is described that predicts, based on movement detected, over time, by the wearable computing device, one or more future periods of time during which the wearable computing device will not be used. Responsive to determining that the wearable computing device is not being used at a current time, the wearable computing device determines whether the current time coincides with at least one period of time from the one or more future periods of time. Responsive to determining that the current time coincides with the at least one period of time, the wearable computing device performs an operation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining, based on sensor data that is obtained from at least one sensor of a wearable computing device and that is used to determine one or more changes in altitude of the wearable computing device over two or more days, a recurring period of time over the two or more days during which a frequency or a magnitude of the sensor data satisfies a threshold that indicates the wearable computing device was not being used; predicting, based on the recurring period of time, a future period of time during which the wearable computing device will not be used; and responsive to determining that an operation can be completed during the future period of time, and further responsive to determining that a current time coincides with the future period of time, performing, by the wearable computing device, the operation at the current time.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the sensor data is first sensor data, the method further comprising: responsive to further determining, based on second sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor of the wearable computing device, that the wearable computing device is not being used at the current time, performing, by the wearable computing device, the operation at the current time.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the wearable computing device is a computerized watch.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the wearable computing device is computerized headphones.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein performing the operation comprises presenting a security challenge user interface in response to detecting attempted use of the wearable computing device at the current time.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein a machine learning system of the wearable computing device determines the recurring period of time when the wearable computing device is not being used.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the sensor data comprises first sensor data and second sensor data, the method further comprising: receiving, from the at least one sensor, the first sensor data, the first sensor data indicating a lack of movement of the wearable computing device being detected during a first period of time of a first day of the two or more days; receiving, from the at least one sensor, the second sensor data, the second sensor data indicating the lack of movement of the wearable computing device being detected during a second period of time of a second day of the two or more days, the second day being different than the first day, wherein the second period of time of the second day corresponds to the first period of time of the first day; identifying, by the machine learning system, based on the first sensor data and the second sensor data, the first period of time of the first day and the second period of time of the second day as being the recurring period of time in the first and second days when the wearable computing device is not being used; and generating, by the machine learning system, a rule that predicts the future period of time to be when the wearable computing device will not be used.
8. A wearable computing device comprising: at least one sensor configured to provide sensor data that is used to determine a change in altitude of the wearable computing device; and at least one processor configured to: determine, based on the sensor data that is used to determine one or more changes in altitude of the wearable computing device over two or more days, a recurring period of time over the two or more days during which a frequency or a magnitude of the sensor data satisfies a threshold that indicates the wearable computing device was not being used; predict, based on the recurring period of time, a future period of time during which the wearable computing device will not be used; and responsive to determining that an operation can be completed during the future period of time, and further responsive to determining that a current time coincides with the future period of time, perform the operation at the current time.
9. The wearable computing device of claim 8, wherein the sensor data is first sensor data, and the at least one processor is further configured to: responsive to further determining, based on second sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor, that the wearable computing device is not being used at the current time, perform the operation at the current time.
10. The wearable computing device of claim 8, wherein the wearable computing device is a computerized watch.
11. The wearable computing device of claim 8, wherein the wearable computing device is computerized headphones.
12. The wearable computing device of claim 8, wherein the at least one processor is configured to perform the operation by at least presenting a security challenge user interface in response to detecting attempted use of the wearable computing device at the current time.
13. The wearable computing device of claim 8, wherein the wearable computing device further comprises a machine learning system configured to determine the recurring period of time when the wearable computing device is not being used.
14. The wearable computing device of claim 13, wherein the sensor data comprises first sensor data and second sensor data, the at least one processor is further configured to: receive, from the at least one sensor, the first sensor data, the first sensor data indicating a lack of movement of the wearable computing device being detected during a first period of time of a first day of the two or more days; and receive, from the at least one sensor, the second sensor data, the second sensor data indicating the lack of movement of the wearable computing device being detected during a second period of time of a second day of the two or more days, the second day being different than the first day, wherein the second period of time of the second day corresponds to the first period of time of the first day; and the machine learning system is configured to: identify, based on the first sensor data and the second sensor data, the first period of time of the first day and the second period of time of the second day as being the recurring period of time in the first and second days when the wearable computing device is not being used; and generate a rule that predicts the future period of time to be when the wearable computing device will not be used.
15. A computer-readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed, cause at least one processor to: determine, based on sensor data that is obtained from at least one sensor of a wearable computing device and that is used to determine one or more changes in altitude of the wearable computing device over two or more days, a recurring period of time over the two or more days during which a frequency or a magnitude of the sensor data satisfies a threshold that indicates the wearable computing device was not being used; predict, based on the recurring period of time, a future period of time during which the wearable computing device will not be used; and responsive to determining that an operation can be completed during the future period of time, and further responsive to determining that a current time coincides with the future period of time, perform the operation at the current time.
16. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the sensor data is first sensor data, and the instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to: responsive to further determining, based on second sensor data obtained from the at least one sensor of the wearable computing device, that the wearable computing device is not being used at the current time, perform the operation at the current time.
17. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the wearable computing device is a computerized watch.
18. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the wearable device is computerized headphones.
19. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to perform the operation by at least presenting a security challenge graphical user interface in response to detecting attempted use of the wearable computing device at the current time.
20. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the instructions, when executed, further cause the at least one processor to determine, using a machine learning system, the recurring period of time when the wearable computing device is not being used.
</claims>
</document>
