<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-18
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-06-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A45D33/38,A45D34/04,A45D44/00,B41M5/00,G06K9/00,G06T7/73,H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PANASONIC INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHINODA, MASAYO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60785139
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image processing apparatus and method for processing image
</title>

<abstract>
An image processing apparatus is an image processing apparatus that generates image data used to print images on a sheet appliable to the skin. The image processing apparatus includes an image determiner that determines a makeup article image whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with facial feature points and an assist mark image whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with the facial feature points and a printing controller that generates the image data including contents indicating that the determined makeup article image and the determined assist mark image are to be printed on the sheet, the determined assist mark image printed at a position corresponding to a printing position of the determined makeup article image.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An image processing apparatus that generates image data used to print images on a sheet appliable to skin, the image processing apparatus comprising: processing circuitry configured to: determine a makeup article image whose target position on a face is determined in accordance with facial feature points and an assist mark image that is provided to assist a user to apply the sheet to the skin and whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with the facial feature points, generate the image data including contents indicating that the determined makeup article image and the determined assist mark image are to be printed on the sheet, the determined assist mark image printed at a position corresponding to a printing position of the determined makeup article image, calculate a distance between coordinates of a center of gravity of the makeup article image and coordinates of the facial feature points, and determine the a target position of the assist mark image on the basis of a closest facial feature point that is determined from the calculated distance between the coordinates of the center of gravity of the makeup article image and the coordinates of the facial feature points.
2. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the makeup article image is selected by the user from a plurality of predetermined types.
3. The image processing apparatus according to claim 2, wherein the assist mark image is selected by the user from a plurality of predetermined types.
4. The image processing apparatus according to claim 3, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to set a priority level for each of the plurality of types of assist mark images, and wherein the processing circuitry is configured to present the assist mark images as options to the user in a descending order of the priority level.
5. The image processing apparatus according to claim 4, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to set the priority level in accordance with a number of times that each assist mark image has been selected by the user.
6. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the processing circuitry is configured to output the generated image data to a printer.
7. The image processing apparatus according to claim 1, wherein the makeup article image is corresponding to a type of factor in discoloration in a discolored area, and includes contents indicating one or more types of medicine.
8. An image processing apparatus that assists application of a sheet appliable to skin, the image processing apparatus comprising: processing circuitry configured to: obtain a captured image, which is obtained by capturing images of a face and the sheet on which a makeup article image whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with facial feature points is printed and that includes an assist mark that is provided to assist a user to apply the sheet to the skin and whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with the facial feature points, extract the facial feature points from the captured image and superimpose a target position image indicating the target position of the assist mark upon the captured image on the basis of the extracted facial feature points, detect a position of the assist mark from the captured image, issue a notification to assist the application of the sheet to the skin on the basis of a relationship between the detected position of the assist mark and a position of the target position image, and determine a target position of the assist mark based on a closest facial feature point between coordinates of a center of gravity of the makeup article image and coordinates of the facial feature points.
9. The image processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein, when a distance between the detected position of the assist mark and the position of the target position image becomes equal to or smaller than a certain value, the processing circuitry issues a notification prompting the user to apply the sheet to the skin.
10. The image processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein, when the distance is not equal to or smaller than the certain value, the processing circuitry issues a notification prompting the user to move the sheet.
11. The image processing apparatus according to claim 9, wherein, when the distance remains not equal to or smaller than the certain value for longer than a certain period of time after the position of the assist mark is detected, the processing circuitry issues a notification prompting the user to move the sheet.
12. The image processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein, when the assist mark includes a plurality of components, the processing circuitry displays a first target position image corresponding to a first component among the plurality of components, and wherein, when a distance between a position of the first target position image and a certain position in the assist mark detected from the captured image becomes equal to or smaller than a certain value, the processing circuitry displays a second target position image corresponding to a second component among the plurality of components.
13. The image processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the assist mark is a part of the sheet or an object holding the sheet or an assist mark image printed on the sheet or a structure backing the sheet at a position corresponding to a printing position of the makeup article image.
14. The image processing apparatus according to claim 8, wherein the assist mark is printed on holding areas by the user of the sheet.
15. A method for processing an image by which image data used to print images on a sheet appliable to skin is generated, the method comprising: determining a makeup article image whose target position on a face is determined in accordance with facial feature points and an assist mark image that is provided to assist a user to apply the sheet to the skin and whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with the facial feature points, the target position of the assist mark image being determined based on a closest facial feature point between coordinates of a center of gravity of the makeup article image and coordinates of the facial feature points; and generating the image data including contents indicating that the determined makeup article image and the determined assist mark image are to be printed on the sheet, the determined assist mark image printed at a position corresponding to a printing position of the determined makeup article image.
16. A method for processing an image by which application of a sheet appliable to skin is assisted, the method comprising: obtaining a captured image, which is obtained by capturing images of a face and the sheet on which a makeup article image whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with facial feature points is printed and that includes an assist mark that is provided to assist a user to apply the sheet to the skin and whose target position on the face is determined in accordance with the facial feature points; extracting the facial feature points from the captured image and superimposing a target position image indicating the target position of the assist mark upon the captured image on the basis of the extracted facial feature points; detecting a position of the assist mark from the captured image; and issuing a notification to assist the application of the sheet to the skin on the basis of a relationship between the detected position of the assist mark and a position of the target position image.
</claims>
</document>
