<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-10-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H04L12/18,H04W4/029,H04W4/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
NAGUIB, AYMAN F.
JUANG, BEN-HENG
BELGHOUL, FAROUK
MUCKE, CHRISTIAN W.
RIVERA-BARRETO, RAFAEL L.
MALTHANKAR, ROHAN C.
SAXENA, SUMIT
CHAWDA, KUSHAL M.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66244544
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Expanded implementation of enhanced broadcast multicast services for broadcast multicast content selection and service
</title>

<abstract>
A network controller, a user equipment (UE) device, and associated methods for conducting intelligent enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS). A network controller receives user preference information and location information from a plurality of UEs. The network controller selects one or more data packages to transmit using eMBMS in one or more broadcast regions based on the user preference information and the location information. The one or more data packages may comprise an updated machine learning model in a distributed learning application. The network controller provides an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions using eMBMS.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A network controller configured to direct broadcast communication, comprising: a processing element communicatively coupled to network infrastructure, wherein the processing element is configured to: receive user preference information from a plurality of user equipment devices (UEs), the user preference information indicating a preference of respective UEs to receive one or more data packages through a broadcast service; receive location information from at least a subset of the plurality of UEs; receive a level of movement from one or more of the plurality of UEs; select one or more broadcast regions within which to perform broadcast services based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information; for each selected broadcast region, select one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information, wherein, in said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages, user preference information and location information associated with a UE with a higher level of movement is given a weaker consideration than user preference information and location information associated with a UE with a lower level of movement; and provide an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions.
2. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the one or more data packages comprise parameters associated with a collaborative deep learning model.
3. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the user preference information comprises a data consumption behavior vector, and wherein selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information comprises constructing an aggregate data consumption behavior vector based on the data consumption vectors received from the plurality of UEs.
4. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the processing element is further configured to: for each of a plurality of broadcast regions, determine a number of UEs located in the respective broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package; and select the respective broadcast region for performing broadcast services if the number of UEs located in the broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package is greater than a predetermined threshold.
5. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the one or more data packages are selected from a set of potential data packages available for broadcast received from one or more remote devices; and wherein said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages is further based at least in part on a negotiation process between the network controller and the one or more remote devices.
6. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the data packages comprise one or more of: an operating system update; an application update; a local update to a map application; an audio file; and a video file.
7. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
8. The network controller of claim 1, wherein the network controller is a content provider server.
9. A user equipment device (UE) configured to perform broadcast communication, comprising: a radio, comprising an antenna configured for wireless communication; a processing element operably coupled to the radio; wherein the processing element and the radio are configured to: receive, from a remote server, a list of data packages that are available for broadcast services; receive an input specifying user preference for receiving one or more of the data packages through broadcast; determine a degree of movement of the UE; concurrently transmit the user preference and the degree of movement of the UE to the remote server; and at least in part in response to transmitting the user preference and the degree of movement of the UE to the remote server, receive at least one of the one or more data packages through broadcast.
10. The UE of claim 9, wherein the one or more data packages comprise parameters associated with a collaborative deep learning model.
11. The UE of claim 9, wherein the processing element and the radio are further configured to: use artificial intelligence and machine learning mechanisms in an operating system of the UE to determine the user preference information.
12. The UE of claim 9, wherein the processing element and the radio are further configured to: determine a location of the UE; transmit the location of the UE concurrently with the transmission of user preference, wherein receiving at least one of the one or more data packages through broadcast is further in response to transmitting the location of the UE.
13. The UE of claim 9, wherein the processing element and the radio are further configured to: determine a remaining battery level of the UE; and not transmit the user preference to the remote server, and not participate in broadcast services, if the battery level of the UE is below a predetermined threshold.
14. The UE of claim 9, wherein the processing element and the radio are further configured to: determine that the UE has entered a location where broadcast services are available; wherein said transmitting the user preference to the remote server is performed at least in part based on a determination that the UE has entered a location where broadcast services are available.
15. The UE of claim 9, wherein the data packages comprise one or more of: an operating system update; an application update; a local update to a map application; an audio file; and a video file.
16. The UE of claim 9, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
17. A method for directing broadcast communication, the method comprising, by a network controller: receiving user preference information from a plurality of user equipment devices (UEs), the user preference information indicating a preference of respective UEs to receive one or more data packages through a broadcast service; receiving location information from at least a subset of the plurality of UEs; receive a level of movement from one or more of the plurality of UEs; selecting one or more broadcast regions within which to perform broadcast services based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information; for each selected broadcast region, selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information and the location information, wherein, in said selecting one or more broadcast regions and one or more data packages, user preference information and location information associated with a UE with a higher level of movement is given a weaker consideration than user preference information and location information associated with a UE with a lower level of movement; and providing an indication to a remote device to broadcast the one or more data packages in the respective one or more broadcast regions.
18. The method of claim 17, the method further comprising, by the network controller: for each of a plurality of broadcast regions, determining a number of UEs located in the respective broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package; and selecting the respective broadcast region for performing broadcast services if the number of UEs located in the broadcast region that are associated with user preference information indicating a preference for receiving a common data package is greater than a predetermined threshold.
19. The method of claim 17, wherein the user preference information comprises a data consumption behavior vector, and wherein selecting one or more data packages to broadcast based at least in part on the user preference information comprises constructing an aggregate data consumption behavior vector based on the data consumption vectors received from the plurality of UEs.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein the broadcast services comprise enhanced multimedia broadcast multicast services (eMBMS).
</claims>
</document>
