<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-10
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-10
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L12/24,H04L12/801,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NORTHROP GRUMMAN SYSTEMS CORPORATION
SONI, TARUN
RAMAKRISHNAN, NIPUN
</assignee>

<inventors>
SONI, TARUN
RAMAKRISHNAN, NIPUN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70160592
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Predicted network traffic
</title>

<abstract>
A system can include a recurrent neural network operating on one or more computing devices that generates a model that outputs a predicted network traffic for a network infrastructure based on a sample of network traffic of the network infrastructure. The predicted network traffic characterizes a predicted traffic volume and a predicted packet type and distribution in the predicted network traffic. The system can also include a network manager operating on one or more computing devices that commands a network router logically coupled to a point of ingress of the network infrastructure to adjust bandwidth limits controlled by the network router based on the predicted network traffic of the network infrastructure.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a recurrent neural network operating on one or more computing devices that generates a model that outputs a predicted network traffic for a network infrastructure for a time period in the future based on a sample of network traffic of the network infrastructure, wherein the predicted network traffic characterizes a predicted traffic volume and a predicted packet protocol and a percentage of distribution for each predicted packet protocol in the network infrastructure; and a network manager operating on one or more computing devices that commands a network router logically coupled to a point of ingress of the network infrastructure to adjust bandwidth limits controlled by the network router based on the predicted network traffic of the network infrastructure, wherein the network manager determines that a denial of service (DoS) attack is likely in response to packets of a particular protocol in actual network traffic exceeding a predicted percentage of distribution of the predicted network traffic for the particular protocol of packet by a threshold amount, and the network manager commands the router to allocate a predetermined amount of network bandwidth to a cyber-manager in response to the prediction of the DoS attack.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the network manager commands the network router to increase bandwidth to a set of nodes of the network infrastructure for a given time period based on the predicted network traffic for the predetermined time period predicting a surge in network traffic during the given time period.
3. The system of claim 2, wherein the network manager increases bandwidth between nodes of the network associated with a geographic region and the set of nodes of the network infrastructure.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the RNN selects a sliding window for the model to generate the predicted network traffic.
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the network manager monitors actual network traffic of the network infrastructure and compares actual network traffic to the predicted network traffic.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the predicted traffic volume includes a rate of bytes that varies as a function of time and a rate of packets that varies as a function of time.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the RNN executes a time series prediction to generate the predicted network traffic.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the RNN comprises Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) units.
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the RNN comprises Gated Recurrent Units (GRUs).
10. The system of claim 9, wherein each of the GRUs has an output that varies based on an update gate and a candidate activation, and the candidate activation is based on a reset gate that controls an extent to which a respective GRU remembers a previous state.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the sample data includes non-linearities and the predicted network traffic accounts for the non-linearities included in the sample data.
12. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having machine readable instructions comprising: a recurrent neural network (RNN) that: generates a model based on sample data corresponding to captured network traffic of a network infrastructure for a time period in the future, and the model outputs a predicted network traffic for the network infrastructure, wherein the predicted network traffic characterizes a predicted traffic volume and a predicted packet protocol and a percentage of distribution for each predicted packet protocol in the network infrastructure; and provides the predicted network traffic to a network manager operating on one or more computing devices, wherein the network manager commands a network router logically coupled to a point of ingress of the network infrastructure to adjust bandwidth limits controlled by the network router based on the predicted network traffic of the network infrastructure, wherein the network manager determines that a denial of service (DoS) attack is likely in response to a particular packet protocol of actual network traffic exceeding the predicted percentage of distribution for the particular packet protocol by a threshold amount, and the network manager commands the router to allocate a predetermined amount of network bandwidth to a cyber-manager in response to the prediction of the DoS attack.
13. The medium of claim 12, wherein the network manager commands the network router to increase bandwidth to a set of nodes of the network infrastructure for a given time period based on the predicted network traffic for the given time period predicting a surge in network traffic.
14. The medium of claim 12, wherein the network manager monitors network traffic of the network infrastructure and compares the actual network traffic to the predicted network traffic.
15. The medium of claim 12, wherein the sample data includes non-linearities and the predicted network traffic accounts for the non-linearities included in the sample data.
16. The medium of claim 12, wherein the RNN comprises Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) units.
17. The medium of claim 12, wherein the RNN comprises Gated Recurrent Units (GRUs).
18. The medium of claim 17, wherein each of the GRUs has an output that varies based on an update gate and a candidate activation, and the candidate activation is based on a reset gate that controls an extent to which a respective GRU remembers a previous state.
19. A method for controlling operations of a network comprising: capturing, by a packet sniffer, network traffic flowing in a network infrastructure to generate sample data that includes non-linearities; generating, by a recurrent neural network (RNN), predicted network traffic for a time period in the future based on the sample data, wherein predicted network traffic characterizes a predicted traffic volume and a predicted packet protocol and a percentage of distribution for each predicted packet protocol in the network infrastructure and the predicted network traffic accounts for the non-linearities included in the sample data; providing the predicted network traffic to a network manager; comparing, by the network manager, a predicted packet protocol and distribution in the predicted network traffic to an actual packet type distribution; identifying a likely denial of service (DoS) attack on the network infrastructure in response to packets of a particular protocol in actual network traffic exceeding a predicted percentage of distribution of the predicted network traffic for the particular protocol of packet by a threshold amount; and allocating bandwidth to a cyber-manager to reconfigure a router of the network infrastructure in response to the identifying.
20. The method of claim 19, further comprising: analyzing, by the network manager, predicted traffic volume in the predicted network traffic to identify a predicted surge in network traffic in the network infrastructure; and reconfiguring a router of the network infrastructure in response to predicted surge in network traffic.
</claims>
</document>
