<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2011-08-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06,H04M3/12,H04M3/22,H04M3/42,H04W4/90,H04W76/18,H04W76/50
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
COMCAST CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
BOONE, JON
KAUSHAL, ARVIND
SHERMAN, BRETT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
47743608
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Fault routing of an emergency communication
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the disclosure relate to routing of an emergency communication under fault conditions. Routing can be implemented in a packet-switching (PS) network that provides voice service. For a network node of the PS network, availability to route the emergency communication through a specific emergency service routing number (ESRN) can be determined and, in response to the network node being unavailable, administrative data associated with the ESRN can be accessed. In addition, an identifier associated with the administrative data can be updated (e.g., created or modified) with data indicative of the device that originated the emergency communication. The administrative data and the resulting identifier can be delivered to a second network node that can route the emergency communication to an emergency service network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: receiving, by a routing device, a first message, wherein the first message is received in response to an emergency communication from a user device; sending, to a routing database, a second message to facilitate communication with a network node that interfaces with an emergency services network; sending, based on a response to the second message that indicates an error, a third message to a communication computing device; receiving, from the communication computing device, data that indicates a logical address; sending, to the routing database, a fourth message comprising the data that indicates the logical address; receiving an identifier associated with the user device; and sending, to the communication computing device, the identifier associated with the user device to facilitate the emergency communication from the user device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the second message indicates a query to determine an identifier associated with the network node, and wherein the second message is based on an E.164 Number Mapping (ENUM) Protocol.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the logical address comprises at least one of: an IP address, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) address, or a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) path.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the first message comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) message comprising a trunk group number, and wherein the SIP message is a SIP INVITE message for initiating the emergency communication.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the routing device comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) routing proxy, and wherein the communication computing device comprises a communication management server.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the data that indicates the logical address comprises a trunk group number, and wherein the third message is based on an Emergency Service Routing Number (ESRN).
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising: sending, to the network node based on the response to the second message, a fifth message, wherein the error indicates an error associated with the fifth message.
8. A method, comprising: receiving, by a routing device, a first message, wherein the first message is received in response to an emergency communication from a user device; sending, to a routing database, a second message that facilitates a determination of a network node that interfaces with an emergency services network; sending, to the network node based on a response to the second message, a third message; receiving, from the network node, an indication of an error associated with the third message; sending, based on the indication of the error, a fourth message to a communication computing device; receiving, from the communication computing device, data that indicates a logical address; sending, to the routing database, a fifth message comprising the data that indicates the logical address; receiving an identifier associated with the user device; and sending, to the communication computing device, the identifier associated with the user device to facilitate the emergency communication from the user device.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the second message indicates a query to determine an identifier associated with the network node, and wherein the second message is based on an E.164 Number Mapping (ENUM) Protocol.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the logical address comprises at least one of: an IP address, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) address, or a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) path.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the first message comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) message comprising a trunk group number, and wherein the SIP message is a SIP INVITE message for initiating the emergency communication.
12. The method of claim 8, wherein the routing device comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) routing proxy, and wherein the communication computing device comprises a communication management server.
13. The method of claim 8, wherein the data that indicates the logical address comprises a trunk group number, and wherein the fourth message is based on an Emergency Service Routing Number (ESRN).
14. An apparatus, comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive a first message, wherein the first message is received in response to an emergency communication from a user device; send, to a routing database, a second message to facilitate communication with a network node that interfaces with an emergency services network; send, based on a response to the second message that indicates an error, a third message to a communication computing device; receive, from the communication computing device, data that indicates a logical address; send, to the routing database, a fourth message comprising the data that indicates the logical address; receive an identifier associated with the user device; and send, to the communication computing device, the identifier associated with the user device to facilitate the emergency communication from the user device.
15. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the second message indicates a query to determine an identifier associated with the network node, and wherein the second message is based on an E.164 Number Mapping (ENUM) Protocol.
16. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the logical address comprises at least one of: an IP address, a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) address, or a Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) path.
17. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the first message comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) message comprising a trunk group number, and wherein the SIP message is a SIP INVITE message for initiating the emergency communication.
18. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the apparatus comprises a Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) routing proxy, and wherein the communication computing device comprises a communication management server.
19. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the data that indicates the logical address comprises a trunk group number, and wherein the third message is based on an Emergency Service Routing Number (ESRN).
20. The apparatus of claim 14, wherein the processor executable instructions, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the apparatus to: send, to the network node based on the response to the second message, a fifth message, wherein the error indicates an error associated with the fifth message.
</claims>
</document>
