<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-06
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01V5/00,G06K9/46,G06K9/62,G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NUCTECH COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHEN ZHIQIANG
LI, YUANJING
LIU LIMIN
WU, XIANGHAO
DAI, JUNDI
DU, YANGE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60409136
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of assisting analysis of radiation image and system using the same
</title>

<abstract>
The present application relates to a method of assisting analysis of a radiation image and a system using the same, which belongs to the field of image processing. A method of assisting analysis of a radiation image includes: acquiring a radiation image to be analyzed; acquiring customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed; acquiring a feature-matched historical image from a typical image library according to the radiation image to be analyzed; and/or acquiring a standard image and/or detailed customs declaration information of the standard image according to the customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed. The method of assisting analysis of a radiation image and the system using the same may assist an image inspection person to judge whether or not the current radiation image carries violation items, whether or not a concealing or missing report occurs and so on.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of assisting analysis of a radiation image, comprising: acquiring a radiation image to be analyzed; acquiring customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed; acquiring a feature-matched historical image from a typical image library according to the radiation image to be analyzed; selecting a cargo category from a plurality of cargo categories according to the customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed; selecting a standard image from among a plurality of standard images associated with the selected cargo category; and acquiring the standard image selected and detailed customs declaration information of the standard image according to the customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed, wherein the standard image is an image where cargo therein match the declared cargo category according to the detailed customs declaration information for the standard image.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: acquiring risk prompt information of the radiation image to be analyzed.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the acquiring a feature-matched historical image from a typical image library according to the radiation image to be analyzed comprises: performing image retrieval on the radiation image to be analyzed in the typical image library.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the performing image retrieval on the radiation image to be analyzed in the typical image library comprises: returning at least one type of image information according to a preset confidence level.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the typical image library comprises a standard image and a violation image corresponding to each of preset cargo categories respectively, the violation image is a image where cargo therein does not match a respective declared cargo category.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the performing image retrieval on the radiation image to be analyzed in the typical image library comprises: extracting features of the radiation image to be analyzed; comparing the features of the radiation image to be analyzed with the standard image and the violation image in the typical image library; obtaining the standard image and/or a violation image confirming to the features of the radiation image.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: obtaining similarity between the standard image and/or the violation image, and the radiation image to be analyzed, according to the comparison with the standard image and/or the violation image similar to the features of the radiation image to be analyzed.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: comparing the standard image and/or the detailed customs declaration information of the standard image with the radiation image to be analyzed, to obtain a matching degree therebetween.
9. The method of claim 4, wherein the returning at least one type of image information according to a preset confidence level comprises: establishing an intelligent image recognition model according to the typical image library; obtaining a suspect coefficient of the radiation image to be analyzed according to the intelligent image recognition model; and comparing the suspect coefficient of the radiation image to be analyzed with a preset threshold value, to judge whether or not a scanned cargo corresponding to the radiation image to be analyzed is suspicious.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the intelligent image recognition model comprises at least two of a waste paper model, a waste metal model, a waste plastic model, a cigarette model and a liquor model.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically providing an analysis result of the radiation image to be analyzed according to the historical image and the standard image and/or the detailed customs declaration information of the standard image.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising: collecting feedback information of the analysis result from a user; and automatically updating the typical image library based on the feedback information.
13. A system for assisting analysis of a radiation image, comprising: a processor; and a memory for storing instructions executable by the processor, wherein the processor is configured to: acquire a radiation image to be analyzed; acquire customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed; store typical images corresponding to each of preset cargo categories respectively; store a standard image and/or detailed customs declaration information of the standard image; acquire a feature-matched historical image from a typical image library according to the radiation image to be analyzed; selecting a cargo category from a plurality of cargo categories according to the customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed; selecting a standard image from among a plurality of standard images associated with the selected cargo category; and acquire the standard image selected and detailed customs declaration information of the standard image according to the customs declaration information of the radiation image to be analyzed, wherein the standard image is an image where cargo therein match the declared cargo category according to the detailed customs declaration information for the standard image.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: acquire risk prompt information of the radiation image to be analyzed.
15. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: perform image retrieval on the radiation image to be analyzed in the typical image library.
16. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: return at least one type of image information according to a preset confidence level.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the typical image library comprises a standard image and a violation image corresponding to each of preset cargo categories respectively, the violation image is a image where cargo therein does not match a respective declared cargo category.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the processor is further configured to: extract features of the radiation image to be analyzed; and compare the features of the radiation image to be analyzed with the standard image and the violation image in the typical image library, to obtain a standard image and/or a violation image confirming to the features of the radiation image.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the processor is further configured to: obtain similarity between the standard image and/or the violation image, and the radiation image to be analyzed, according to the comparison with the standard image and/or the violation image similar to the features of the radiation image to be analyzed.
20. The system of claim 13, wherein the processor is further configured to: compare the standard image and/or the detailed customs declaration information of the standard image with the radiation image to be analyzed, to obtain a matching degree therebetween.
</claims>
</document>
