<document>

<filing_date>
2018-05-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-05-24
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01R33/28,G01R33/54
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SIEMENS HEALTHCARE
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEYER, STEFAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64109203
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Adapting a parameter of a parameter set for a magnetic resonance measurement
</title>

<abstract>
A method is for adapting a parameter of a parameter set for a magnetic resonance measurement of an examination object. An embodiment of the method includes choosing a parameter set required for the magnetic resonance measurement of the examination object; determining at least one interaction indicator applicable to an interaction between electromagnetic radiation and a tissue of the examination object; comparing the interaction indicator with a previously defined upper limit for the interaction indicator and, upon the upper limit being exceeded, determining a group of parameters from the parameter set, adaptable with a view to complying with the upper limit. The method further includes calculating a modification suggestion for a multiplicity of parameters from the group with a view to complying with the upper limit, identifying a parameter to optimize a quality parameter of the magnetic resonance measurement, and adapting the identified parameter in accordance with its modification suggestion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for adapting a parameter of a parameter set for a magnetic resonance measurement of an examination object, the method comprising: choosing a parameter set for the magnetic resonance measurement of the examination object; determining at least one interaction indicator applicable to an interaction between electromagnetic radiation and a tissue of the examination object based upon the parameter set chosen; comparing an interaction indicator value with an upper limit for the at least one interaction indicator; determining a group of adaptable parameters from the parameter set, the group of adaptable parameters being adaptable in accordance with the upper limit of the at least one interaction indicator; calculating a modification suggestion for a multiplicity of parameters from the group of adaptable parameters; identifying at least one parameter from the group of adaptable parameters based on a projected effect of the modification on a quality parameter of the magnetic resonance measurement; and adapting the identified at least one parameter in accordance with the calculated modification suggestion.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one interaction indicator is a specific absorption rate, and the group of adaptable parameters includes at least a number of layers, a TR repetition time, and a flip angle.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the at least one parameter is further based on further parameters of the parameter set.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the identifying the at least one parameter includes identifying the at least one parameter based on a smallest parameter modification of the calculated modification suggestions.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the at least one parameter is further based on a body region of the examination object.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying the at least one parameter is further based on system components of a magnetic resonance installation used for the magnetic resonance measurement.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the identifying identifies the at least one parameter using a trained identification algorithm.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the identification algorithm is based on a machine learning process, a statistical method, a mapping rule, mathematical functions or an artificial neural network.
9. A computing unit for adapting a parameter of a parameter set for a magnetic resonance measurement of an examination object, comprising: a memory storing program computer-readable instructions; and one or more processors configured to execute the instructions such that the one or more processors are configured to cause the computing unit to, choose a parameter set for the magnetic resonance measurement of the examination object, determine at least one interaction indicator applicable to an interaction between electromagnetic radiation and a tissue of the examination object based upon the parameter set chosen, compare an interaction indicator value with an upper limit for the at least one interaction indicator, determine a group of adaptable parameters from the parameter set, the group of adaptable parameters being adaptable in accordance with the upper limit of the at least one interaction indicator, calculate a modification suggestion for a multiplicity of parameters from the group of adaptable parameters, identify at least one parameter from the group of adaptable parameters based on a projected effect of the modification on a quality parameter of the magnetic resonance measurement, and adapt the identified at least one parameter in accordance with the calculated modification suggestion.
10. A magnetic resonance installation comprising the computing unit of claim 9.
11. A non-transitory computer program product storing program code, to perform the method of claim 1 when the computer program is executed on a computer.
12. A non-transitory computer-readable data medium storing program code of a computer program, to perform the method of claim 1 when the computer program is executed on a computer.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the at least one interaction indicator is a stimulation rate and the group of adaptable parameters includes at least a layer thickness, a gradient rise time, and a field of view.
14. The magnetic resonance installation of claim 10, wherein the computing unit is integrated in the magnetic resonance installation.
15. The magnetic resonance installation of claim 10, wherein the computing unit is arranged remotely or isolated from the magnetic resonance installation.
16. An apparatus for adapting a parameter of a parameter set for a magnetic resonance measurement of an examination object, comprising: processing circuitry configured to cause the apparatus to, choose a parameter set for the magnetic resonance measurement of the examination object, determine at least one interaction indicator applicable to an interaction between electromagnetic radiation and a tissue of the examination object based upon the parameter set chosen, compare an interaction indicator value with an upper limit for the at least one interaction indicator, determine a group of adaptable parameters from the parameter set, the group of adaptable parameters being adaptable in accordance with the upper limit of the at least one interaction indicator, calculate a modification suggestion for a multiplicity of parameters from the group of adaptable parameters, identify at least one parameter from the group of adaptable parameters based on a projected effect of the modification on a quality parameter of the magnetic resonance measurement, and adapt the identified at least one parameter in accordance with the calculated modification suggestion.
17. A magnetic resonance installation comprising the apparatus of claim 16.
18. The magnetic resonance installation of claim 17, wherein the apparatus is integrated in the magnetic resonance installation.
19. The magnetic resonance installation of claim 17, wherein the apparatus is arranged remotely or isolated from the magnetic resonance installation.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable data medium storing program code of a computer program, to perform the method of claim 1 when the computer program is executed on a computer of a magnetic resonance installation including the computer.
</claims>
</document>
