<document>

<filing_date>
2020-02-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2020-02-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOSHIBA TEC CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KODIMER MARIANNE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73746635
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for machine learning assisted multifunction peripheral fleet management via a handheld device
</title>

<abstract>
A system and method for maintaining and optimizing a fleet of multifunction peripherals is operated by use of a smartphone or tablet computer. Fleet changes are provided in multiple categories such as software updates, configuration changes and feature activation. A user is provided with a dashboard having a selectable indicia for each category. Devices are monitored and machine learning provides for recommendations for each category. A badge showing a number of recommendations for each category is displayed with its selectable indicia. When an indicia is selected, an associated recommendation is displayed and implemented if accepted. Once accepted, the dashboard is regenerated with updated badge information reflecting an accepted implementation.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: a user interface including a user input and a display; a data interface; a memory, the memory configured to store status data corresponding to a status of each of a plurality of multifunction peripherals, the memory further configured to store usage data corresponding to usage levels of each of the plurality of multifunction peripherals, and the memory further configured to store solution data corresponding to each of a plurality of solution sets, each solution set associated with remediation of associated multifunction peripheral issues in a unique, predefined category; and a processor, the processor further configured to identify one or more multifunction peripheral device issues in accordance with the status data and the usage data, the processor further configured to generate recommendation data corresponding to recommended actions relative to one or more of the multifunction peripherals in accordance solution data corresponding to identified issues, the processor further configured to generate, on the display, a dashboard including indicia associated with each predefined category displayed associatively with a badge indicating a corresponding number of recommended actions for that category, the processor further configured to generate user recommendations on the display in accordance with generated recommendation data, the processor further configures to receive, via the user input, user instructions responsive to displayed user recommendations, the processor further configured to selectively implement one or more of the recommended actions via the data interface in accordance with received user instructions, and the processor further configured to generate an updated dashboard on the display including an updated badge reflective of implemented recommended actions.
2. The system of claim 1 wherein the status data corresponds to device maintenance issues associated with one or more of the multifunction peripherals.
3. The system of claim 2 wherein the status data further corresponds to device health issues and device maintenance issues.
4. The system of claim 1 wherein the usage data corresponds to multifunction peripheral application usage.
5. The system of claim 4 wherein the usage data further corresponds to application usage levels and time of day usage levels.
6. The system of claim 1 wherein the user recommendations comprise one or more applications suggested for installation on the multifunction peripherals.
7. The system of claim 1 wherein the user recommendations comprise recommended modifications to multifunction peripheral device settings.
8. The system of claim 1 wherein the memory is further configured to store heuristic data corresponding to multifunction peripheral device usage propensities associated with a business type with which the multifunction peripherals are deployed, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate the recommendation data in accordance with the heuristic data.
9. A method comprising: storing status data corresponding to a status of each of a plurality of multifunction peripherals; storing, in a memory, usage data corresponding to usage levels of each of the plurality of multifunction peripherals in the memory; storing, in the memory, solution data corresponding to each of a plurality of solutions sets, each solution set associated with remediation of associated multifunction peripheral issues in the memory in a unique, predefined category; identifying, via a processor, one or more multifunction peripheral device issues in accordance with the status data and the usage data; generating recommendation data corresponding to recommended actions relative to one or more of the multifunction peripherals in accordance solution data corresponding to identified issues; generating, on the display, a dashboard including indicia associated with each predefined category displayed associatively with a badge indicating a corresponding number of recommended actions for that category; generating user recommendations on the display in accordance with generated recommendation data; receiving, via the user input, user instructions responsive to displayed user recommendations; selectively implementing, via a data interface, one or more of the recommended actions in accordance with received user instructions; and generating an updated dashboard on the display including an updated badge reflective of implemented recommended actions.
10. The method of claim 9 wherein the status data corresponds to device maintenance issues associated with one or more of the multifunction peripherals.
11. The method of claim 10 wherein the status data further corresponds to device health issues and device maintenance issues.
12. The method of claim 9 wherein the usage data corresponds to multifunction peripheral application usage.
13. The method of claim 12 wherein the usage data further corresponds to application usage levels and time of day usage levels.
14. The method of claim 9 wherein the user recommendations comprise one or more applications suggested for installation on the multifunction peripherals.
15. The method of claim 9 wherein the user recommendations comprise recommended modifications to multifunction peripheral device settings.
16. The method of claim 9 further comprising storing heuristic data corresponding to multifunction peripheral device usage propensities associated with a business type with which the multifunction peripherals are deployed, and generating the recommendation data in accordance with the heuristic data.
17. A system comprising: a user interface including a user input and a display; a data interface; a memory, the memory configured to store status data corresponding to a status of each of a plurality of multifunction peripherals, wherein the status data comprises data corresponding to device errors and device maintenance; the memory further configured to store usage data corresponding to usage levels of each of the plurality of multifunction peripherals, wherein the usage data comprises data corresponding to applications used and device features used; the memory further configured to store solution data corresponding to each of a plurality of solution sets, each solution set associated with remediation of associated multifunction peripheral issues in a unique, predefined category, wherein the solution data sets include two or more of device setting changes, modification of installed applications and device servicing; a processor, the processor further configured to identify one or more multifunction peripheral device issues in accordance with the status data and the usage data; the processor further configured to generate recommendation data corresponding to recommended actions relative to one or more of the multifunction peripherals in accordance solution data corresponding to identified issues; the processor further configured to generate, on the display, a dashboard including indicia associated with each predefined category displayed associatively with a badge indicating a corresponding number of recommended actions for that category; the processor further configured to generate user recommendations on the display in accordance with generated recommendation data, the recommendations including one or more of one or more of device setting changes, modification of installed applications and device servicing corresponding to the recommendation data; the processor further configures to receive, via the user input, user instructions responsive to displayed user recommendations; the processor further configured to selectively implement, via the data interface, one or more of the recommended actions in accordance with received user instructions; and the processor further configured to generate an updated dashboard on the display including an updated badge reflective of implemented, recommended actions.
18. The system of claim 17 wherein the memory is further configured to store heuristic data corresponding to multifunction peripheral device usage propensities associated with a business type with which the multifunction peripherals are deployed, and wherein the processor is further configured to generate the recommendation data in accordance with the heuristic data.
19. The system of claim 18 wherein the heuristic data includes data for multifunction peripheral software installations and device software settings associated with the business type.
20. The system of claim 19 wherein the heuristic data is associated with a business type of one of legal, medical, governmental, educational or manufacturing.
</claims>
</document>
