<document>

<filing_date>
2015-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-01-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
KISILEV, PAVEL
MEIROM, ELI A.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58282537
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Enhanced kernel representation for processing multimodal data
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes receiving multimodal data. The computer-implemented method further includes generating one or more kernel matrices from the multimodal data. The computer-implemented method further includes generating an equivalent kernel matrix using one or more coefficient matrices, wherein the one or more coefficient matrices are constrained by a nuclear norm. The computer-implemented method further includes initiating one or more iterative processes. Each of the one or more iterative processes includes: calculating an error for the one or more coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix based on a training set, and initiating a line search for the one or more coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix. The computer-implemented method further includes, responsive to generating an optimal coefficient matrix, terminating the one or more iterative processes. The method may be embodied in a corresponding computer system or computer program product.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method of reducing computer processing overhead during classification of data objects, comprising: receiving multimodal data for a multiple kernel learning optimization problem, wherein a number of parameters is quadratic with respect to a number of kernels; generating a plurality of kernel matrices from the multimodal data; generating an equivalent kernel matrix using the plurality of kernel matrices and a plurality of coefficient matrices, wherein: (i) each coefficient matrix in the plurality of coefficient matrices is constrained by a nuclear norm having a value greater than zero and less than or equal to one and (ii) a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix is convex; initiating one or more iterative processes, wherein each iterative process includes: calculating, based on a training set, an error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; and initiating a line search for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; responsive to generating an optimal coefficient matrix, wherein the error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix has been satisfied, terminating the one or more iterative processes; and classifying the multimodal data based, at least in part, on the equivalent kernel matrix and the optimal coefficient matrix.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the equivalent kernel matrix is a linear sum of products of the plurality of kernel matrices and the plurality of coefficient matrices.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the error is a separation measure of the training set and is a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the line search includes gradient descent.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the error is calculated using support vector machine software.
6. A computer program product for reducing computer processing overhead during classification of data objects, the computer program product comprising: one or more computer readable storage media and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the program instructions comprising instructions to: receive multimodal data for a multiple kernel learning optimization problem, wherein a number of parameters is quadratic with respect to a number of kernels; generate a plurality of kernel matrices from the multimodal data; generate an equivalent kernel matrix using the plurality of kernel matrices and a plurality of coefficient matrices, wherein: (i) each coefficient matrix in the plurality of coefficient matrices is constrained by a nuclear norm having a value greater than zero and less than or equal to one and (ii) a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix is convex; initiate one or more iterative processes, wherein each iterative process includes instructions to: calculate, based on a training set, an error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; and initiate a line search for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; responsive to generating an optimal coefficient matrix, wherein the error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix has been satisfied, terminate the one or more iterative processes; and classify the multimodal data based, at least in part, on the equivalent kernel matrix and the optimal coefficient matrix.
7. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the equivalent kernel matrix is a linear sum of products of the plurality of kernel matrices and the plurality of coefficient matrices.
8. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the error is a separation measure of the training set and is a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix.
9. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the line search includes gradient descent.
10. The computer program product of claim 6, wherein the error is calculated using support vector machine software.
11. A computer system for reducing computer processing overhead during classification of data objects, the computer system comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; computer program instructions; the computer program instructions being stored on the one or more computer readable storage media; the computer program instructions comprising instructions to: receive multimodal data for a multiple kernel learning optimization problem, wherein a number of parameters is quadratic with respect to a number of kernels; generate a plurality of kernel matrices from the multimodal data; generate an equivalent kernel matrix using the plurality of kernel matrices and a plurality of coefficient matrices, wherein: (i) each coefficient matrix in the plurality of coefficient matrices is constrained by a nuclear norm having a value greater than zero and less than or equal to one and (ii) a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix is convex; initiate one or more iterative processes, wherein each iterative process includes instructions to: calculate, based on a training set, an error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; and initiate a line search for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix; responsive to generating an optimal coefficient matrix, wherein the error for the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix has been satisfied, terminate the one or more iterative processes; and classify the multimodal data based, at least in part, on the equivalent kernel matrix and the optimal coefficient matrix.
12. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the equivalent kernel matrix is a linear sum of products of the plurality of kernel matrices and the plurality of coefficient matrices.
13. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the error is a separation measure of the training set and is a function of the plurality of coefficient matrices of the equivalent kernel matrix.
14. The computer system of claim 11, wherein the line search includes gradient descent.
</claims>
</document>
