<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-07
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/24,H04L12/26
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOLDMAN SACHS & COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
MADHAVAN, MUKUNDAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71519711
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
CAPACITY MANAGEMENT OF COMPUTING RESOURCES BASED ON TIME SERIES ANALYSIS
</title>

<abstract>
An online system receives time series data and analyzes the data for identifying trend changes or level shifts in the time series. The time series data may describe resource utilization of systems, for example, bandwidth of computer networks. The online system uses prediction models, for example, machine learning based prediction models using regression to predict data values for the time series. The online system determines error residue values based on difference between predicted data values and actual data values of the time series. The online system determines level change in the error residue to identify change-points representing trend changes or level-shifts in the original time-series. The online system takes corrective action based on the change-point information and the trend following the occurrence of the change-point, for example, sending alerts or instructions for causing reconfiguration of the systems such as the computer network.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for performing capacity management of a computer network, the method comprising: receiving, from one or more devices, data representing communications in a computer network associated with the one or more devices; determining a time series representing network utilization data based on the received data, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value and representing network utilization associated with a time represented by the timestamp value; accessing a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value and predict a data value of the time series corresponding to the input timestamp value, the predicted data value representing network utilization data associated with a input timestamp; predicting a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determining an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determining a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and performing a corrective action for the computer network based on the change-point.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is a first prediction model, the method further comprising: determining a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein performing the corrective action for the computer network is based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the received data represents link utilization measurements representing data transfer rate between routers or other devices in the computer network.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the change-point in the error residue values comprises: determining a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determining a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determining a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identifying a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and providing the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the time series comprises: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, aggregating the received data across the sub-interval; using each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determining a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a received data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, using the median value instead of the received data value.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, the method further comprising: training the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein performing the corrective action comprises one or more of: sending an alert describing the change-point and a trend following its occurrence; and processing instructions to reconfigure a portion of the computer network.
9. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving data describing time of completion of tasks, each task associated with a deadline for completing the task; determining a time series representing head-room values of tasks, wherein a head-room value represents a difference between a deadline for completion of the task and the time of completion of the task, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value associated with a task and representing a headroom value for the task associated with the timestamp value; accessing a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value associated with a particular task and predict the headroom value for the particular task; predicting a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determining an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determining a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and performing a corrective action for adjusting the head-room value of tasks processed after the change-point.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the prediction model is a first prediction model, the method further comprising: determining a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein performing the corrective action is based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining the change-point in the error residue values comprises: determining a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determining a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determining a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identifying a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and providing the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining the time series comprises one or more of: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, determining an aggregate value by aggregating the input values across the sub-interval; using each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determining a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a network data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, using the median value instead of the received data value.
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, the method further comprising: training the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, wherein performing the corrective action comprises one or more of: sending an alert describing the change-point and a resulting trend after its occurrence; and processing instructions to reconfigure resources for processing the tasks processed after the change-point.
16. A computer-implemented method for performing corrective actions based on trend change or mean-shift change-points in user interactions with computing systems, the method comprising: receiving data describing user interactions with computing systems; determining a time series representing values of a metric based on aggregate values of data describing the user interactions, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value and representing a value of the metric based on aggregate values of data describing user interactions corresponding to the timestamp value; accessing a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value and predict the value of the metric based on aggregate values of data describing user interactions corresponding to the input timestamp value; predicting a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determining an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determining a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and performing a corrective action associated with user interactions performed after the change-point.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the prediction model is a first prediction model, the method further comprising: determining a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein performing the corrective action is based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein determining the change-point in the error residue values comprises: determining a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determining a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determining a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identifying a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and providing the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 18, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein determining the time series comprises one or more of: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, determining an aggregate value by aggregating the input values across the sub-interval; using each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determining a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a network data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, using the median value instead of the received data value.
21. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, the method further comprising: training the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
22. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein performing the corrective action comprises one or more of: sending an alert describing the change-point and a resulting trend after its occurrence; processing instructions to reconfigure resources for processing user interactions processed after the change-point; and modifying distribution of content items after the change-point.
23. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive, from one or more devices, data representing communications in a computer network associated with the one or more devices; determine a time series representing network utilization data based on the received data, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value and representing network utilization associated with a time represented by the timestamp value; access a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value and predict a data value of the time series corresponding to the input timestamp value, the predicted data value representing network utilization data associated with the input timestamp; predict a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determine an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determine a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and perform a corrective action for the computer network based on the change-point.
24. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the prediction model is a first model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein the instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
25. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the received data represents link utilization measurements representing data transfer rate between routers or other devices in the computer network.
26. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the change-point in the error residue values correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: determine a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determine a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determine a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identify a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and provide the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
27. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 26, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
28. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the time series correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, aggregate the received data across the subinterval; use each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determine a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a received data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, use the median value instead of the received data value.
29. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: train the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
30. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 23, wherein instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: send an alert describing the change-point and a trend following its occurrence; and process instructions to reconfigure a portion of the computer network.
31. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive data describing time of completion of tasks, each task associated with a deadline for completing the task; determine a time series representing head-room values of tasks, wherein a head-room value represents a difference between a deadline for completion of the task and the time of completion of the task, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value associated with a task and representing a headroom value for the task associated with the timestamp value; access a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value associated with a particular task and predict the headroom value for the particular task; predict a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determine an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determine a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and perform a corrective action for adjusting the head-room value of tasks processed after the change-point.
32. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 31, wherein the prediction model is a first model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein the instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
33. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 31, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the change-point in the error residue values correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: determine a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determine a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determine a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identify a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and provide the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
34. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 33, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
35. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 31, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the time series correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, determine an aggregate value by aggregating the input values across the sub-interval; use each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determine a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a network data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, use the median value instead of the received data value.
36. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 31, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: train the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
37. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 31, wherein instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: send an alert describing the change-point and a resulting trend following its occurrence; and process instructions to reconfigure resources for processing the tasks processed after the change-point.
38. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium comprising instructions that, when executed by a processor, cause the processor to: receive data describing user interactions with computing systems; determine a time series representing values of a metric based on aggregate values of data describing the user interactions, the time series comprising a sequence of data values, each data value associated with a timestamp value and representing a value of the metric based on aggregate values of data describing user interactions corresponding to the timestamp value; access a prediction model configured to receive an input timestamp value and predict the value of the metric based on aggregate values of data describing user interactions corresponding to the input timestamp value; predict a plurality of data values of the time series using the prediction model; for each of the plurality of predicted data values, determine an error residue value representing a measure of difference between the predicted data value and a data value of the time series; determine a change-point based on the error residue values, the change point representing a change in an aggregate measure of level of the error residue; and perform a corrective action associated with user interactions performed after the change-point.
39. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein the prediction model is a first model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: determine a second prediction model based on data values of the timestamp that occur after the change point; and wherein the instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action based on predictions made by the second prediction model.
40. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the change-point in the error residue values correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: determine a total aggregate value corresponding to data values of the time series; determine a partial aggregate value corresponding to each of a set of timestamp values; determine a secondary time series based on a difference between the partial aggregate values and the total aggregate values; identify a timestamp associated with a shift in level of values in the secondary time series; and provide the identified timestamp as a timestamp corresponding to the change-point.
41. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein the partial aggregate value is a cumulative partial sum of data values of the time series and the total aggregate value is a cumulative sum of data values of the time series.
42. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein the instructions that cause the processor to determine the time series correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: for each of a plurality of sub-intervals, determine an aggregate value by aggregating the input values across the sub-interval; use each aggregate value for a sub-interval as a data value of the time series, the data value corresponding to a timestamp associated with the sub-interval; determine a median value across a sliding window; and responsive to a network data value deviating from the median value by more than a threshold value, use the median value instead of the received data value.
43. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein the prediction model is a machine learning based regression model, and wherein the instructions further cause the processor to: train the machine learning based regression model using data values from the time series.
44. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 38, wherein instructions that cause the processor to perform the corrective action correspond to instructions that cause the processor to: sending an alert describing the change-point and a resulting trend after its occurrence; processing instructions to reconfigure resources for processing user interactions processed after the change-point; and modifying distribution of content items after the change-point.
</claims>
</document>
