<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,G06F11/36,G06Q20/00,G06Q20/14,G06Q20/20,G06Q20/40,G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
TOTAL SYSTEM SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
MOORE, RUSSELL
POWERS, KEVIN
RIDDICK, DONALD MORFORD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61621076
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Virtual payments environment
</title>

<abstract>
A virtual payments environment can be used to simulate and test performance of a payments system. A plurality of characteristics and settings can be used to generate and/or determine one or more scenarios associated with a payments environment. The one or more scenarios associated with the payments environment can comprise a plurality of activity engines that simulate real-word components of a payments environment. Payment information can be introduced to the one or more scenarios and activity engines can be used to test and/or verify the integrity of the payment information as it traverses a transactional path through the payments environment. Performance data associated with the payment information can be accessed and review in order to determine a number or successes and/or failures associated with processing the payment information as it transverses the payments environment.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a network device, one or more performance settings; generating, based on the one or more performance settings, a representation of a payments environment comprising a plurality of activity engines; determining, via each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines, that payment information received by the network device satisfies or does not satisfy a threshold associated with the activity engine; and tagging, via each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines, the payment information with an identifier associated with a blockchain of the activity engine, wherein each identifier indicates that the payment information satisfied or did not satisfy the threshold associated with the activity engine.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein at least one activity engine of the plurality of activity engines is associated with one or more of a point-of-sale (POS) device, a payment gateway, a payment processor, or a network.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the payment information comprises one or more of an account number, a card status, a verification code, a merchant identifier, or a cryptocurrency identifier.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the one or more performance settings comprises: receiving, via an interface associated with a computing device, the one or more performance settings; and transmitting the one or more performance settings to the network device.
5. The method of claim 1 further comprising generating, based on the tagged payment information, performance data comprising a transactional path associated with the payment information.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising causing display of the performance data via one or more of a graphical user interface (GUI), an application, or a web browser.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein the transactional path is indicative of an order by which each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines processed the payment information.
8. An apparatus comprising: one or more processors; and a memory storing thereon processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to: receive, by a network device, one or more performance settings; generate, based on the one or more performance settings, a representation of a payments environment comprising a plurality of activity engines; determine, via each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines, that payment information received by the network device satisfies or does not satisfy a threshold associated with the activity engine; and tag, via each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines, the payment information with an identifier associated with a blockchain of the activity engine, wherein each identifier indicates that the payment information satisfied or did not satisfy the threshold associated with the activity engine.
9. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein at least one activity engine of the plurality of activity engines is associated with one or more of a point-of-sale (POS) device, a payment gateway, a payment processor, or a network.
10. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the payment information comprises one or more of an account number, a card status, a verification code, a merchant identifier, or a cryptocurrency identifier.
11. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor executable instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the apparatus to receive the one or more performance settings further cause the apparatus to: receive, via an interface associated with a computing device, the one or more performance settings; and transmit the one or more performance setting to the network device.
12. The apparatus of claim 8, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the apparatus to: generate, based on the tagged payment information, performance data comprising a transactional path associated with the payment information.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the processor executable instructions further cause the apparatus to: display the performance data via one or more of a graphical user intergace (GUI), an application, or a web browser.
14. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the transactional path is indicative of an order by which each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines processed the payment information.
15. A system comprising: a network device configured to: receive one or more performance settings; generate, based on the one or more performance settings, a representation of a payments environment comprising a plurality of activity engines; and receive payment information; and a plurality of activity engines, each configured to: determine that the payment information satisfies or does not satisfy a threshold. associated with the activity engine; and tag the payment information with an identifier associated with a blockchain of the activity engine, wherein the identifier indicates that the payment information satisfied or did not satisfy the threshold associated with the activity engine.
16. The system of claim 15, wherein at least one activity engine of the plurality of activity engines is associated with one or more of a point-of-sale (POS) device, a payment gateway, a payment processor, or a network.
17. The system of claim 15, wherein the payment information comprises one or more of an account number, a card status, a verification code, a merchant identifier, or a cryptocurrency identifier.
18. The system of claim 15, further comprising an interface configured to: receive the one or more performance settings; and transmit the one or more performance settings to the network device.
19. The system of claim 15, wherein each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines is further configured to: generate, based on the tagged payment information, performance data comprising a transactional path associated with the payment information.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein the transactional path is indicative of an order by which each activity engine of the plurality of activity engines processed the payment information.
</claims>
</document>
