<document>

<filing_date>
2015-10-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-10-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,G06N7/00,G06Q10/06,G06Q50/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
BHARTI, HARISH
PATRA, ABHAY K.
SUKHIJA, SANDEEP
CHETAL, ANSHUL
SEETHARAM, SREERANJINI R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58634865
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determining demand response impact scores and target customer group for energy saving events
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method includes: receiving, by a computing device, analytics data at a feeder level of a utility transmission and distribution system; generating, by the computing device, a confidence score for a feeder based on the analytics data at the feeder level; receiving, by the computing device, analytics data at a transformer level of the utility transmission and distribution system; generating, by the computing device, a confidence score for a transformer associated with the feeder based on the analytics data at the transformer level and the confidence score of the feeder; receiving, by the computing device, analytics data for customers associated with the transformer; generating, by the computing device, confidence scores for the customers based on the analytics data and the confidence score of the transformer; and outputting, by the computing device, information regarding the confidence scores for the customers for determining the effectiveness of a demand response (DR) program.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computing device and using an application program interface (API), analytics data at a feeder level of a utility transmission and distribution system; generating, by the computing device, a confidence score for a feeder based on the analytics data at the feeder level; receiving, by the computing device using the API, analytics data at a transformer level of the utility transmission and distribution system; generating, by the computing device, a confidence score for a transformer associated with the feeder based on the analytics data at the transformer level and the confidence score of the feeder; receiving, by the computing device using the API, analytics data for customers associated with the transformer; generating, by the computing device, confidence scores for the customers based on the analytics data and the confidence score of the transformer; determining, by the computing device, an effectiveness of a demand response (DR) program based on the confidence scores, wherein the DR program is an energy savings event for utility load management; purchasing energy based on the confidence scores; and outputting, by the computing device, information regarding the confidence scores and the effectiveness of the DR program, wherein the confidence scores of the customers indicate an estimated amount of energy saved by the customers during the DR program, and wherein the confidence scores of the feeder and the transformer indicate a potential cost savings for reducing energy transmitted via the feeder or transformer and the effectiveness of the DR program indicates energy and costs saved by the DR program, the method further comprising using the confidence scores to perform all of: selecting a target set of customers for a future DR program; providing energy savings rewards; and adjusting energy supplying techniques and energy supplying routes.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising selecting a group of customers for participation in the DR program based on the confidence scores of the customers.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising sending a message to the selected customers to notify the selected customers of the DR program.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining, based on the confidence scores of the customers, rewards for reducing energy consumption.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising determining energy supply purchasing based on the confidence scores of the feeder, transformer, or the customers.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: segmenting a plurality of feeders into clusters based on analytics factors for the feeders; and segmenting a plurality of transformers into clusters based on analytics factors for the transformers, wherein the feeder is included in a selected cluster of feeders and the transformer is included in a selected cluster of transformers, and the generating the confidence scores for the customers is based on the segmenting the plurality of feeders and the plurality of transformers into clusters.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the analytics data for the feeder or transformer includes at least one of: cost per unit of energy; estimated revenue per customer category; transmission power loss ratios; load balancing data; and historical demand response program participation data.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the customer analytics data includes at least one of: number of incomes for in a customer household; total customer family income; number of family members in a customer household; customer profession; customer category or type; customer interests; number of appliances owned by a customer; historical customer DR program participation or rating; customer net energy metering (NEM) rating; customer registration status in participating in DR programs; customer participation environmental conservation programs; and customer participation in third party promotional programs.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating the customer confidence scores is based on ensemble modeling techniques.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein a utility service provider at least one of creates, maintains, deploys and supports the computing device.
11. The method of claim 1, further comprising deploying a system for determining effectiveness of DR programs and selecting a group of customers for participation in a DR program, comprising providing a computer infrastructure operable to perform the steps of claim 1.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the customer analytics data includes: number of incomes for in a customer household; total customer family income; number of family members in a customer household; customer profession; customer category or type; customer interests; number of appliances owned by a customer; historical customer DR program participation or rating; customer net energy metering (NEM) rating; customer registration status in participating in DR programs; customer participation environmental conservation programs; and customer participation in third party promotional programs.
13. The method of claim 12, further comprising: generating, by the computing device, an impact on the DR program in view of the customers participating in the DR program based on the confidence scores for the customers; and generating, by the computing device, energy and cost savings in view of the impact.
14. A computer program product for determining an effectiveness of a demand response (DR) program, the computer program product comprising a computer readable storage medium having program instructions embodied therewith, the program instructions executable by a computing device to cause the computing device to: determine an effectiveness of the demand response (DR) program based on analytics information of a hierarchy of a utility transmission and distribution system, and analytics information of customers associated with the utility transmission and distribution system, wherein the analytics information of the hierarchy of a utility transmission and distribution system and the analytics information of the customers is obtained using an application program interface (API), wherein the DR program is an energy savings event for utility load management; determine confidence scores of the customers based on the analytics information of the hierarchy of a utility transmission and distribution system and the analytics information of the customers associated with the utility transmission and distribution system; identify alternate routes for supplying the customers with electricity by using the confidence scores of the customers to identify feeders and transformers having lower power loss ratios and cost per unit in supplying electricity to the customers; purchase energy based on the confidence scores; and determine and select a target set of customers for which to select to participate in the DR program; wherein the confidence scores of the customers indicate an estimated amount of energy saved by the customers during the DR program.
15. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the analytics information of the hierarchy indicates a potential cost savings for reducing energy transmitted via the utility transmission and distribution system.
16. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions further cause the computing device to send a message to the target set of customers to notify the target set of customers of the DR program.
17. The computer program product of claim 14, wherein the program instructions further cause the computing device to determine, based on the confidence scores of the customers, rewards for reducing energy consumption.
18. A system comprising: a CPU, a computer readable memory and a computer readable storage medium associated with a computing device; program instructions to receive information regarding confidence scores associated with a feeder, a transformer associated with the feeder, and customers associated with the transformer, wherein the confidence scores for the transformer is based on the confidence scores for the feeder, and the confidence scores of the customers are based on the confidence score for the transformers, wherein the information is received via an application programming interface (API); program instructions to purchase energy based on the confidence scores; program instructions to identify alternate routes for supplying the customers with electricity by using the confidence scores of the customers to identify feeders and transformers having lower power loss ratios and cost per unit in supplying electricity to the customers; program instructions to select a particular group of the customers for participation in a demand response (DR) program based on the confidence scores of the customers, wherein the DR program is an energy savings event for utility load management; program instructions to determine and provide rewards for the customers as part of the DR program; program instructions to implement the DR program based on the confidence scores of the customers; and program instructions to output a message to the group of customers to notify the customers regarding the selection of the group of customers for the participation in the DR program; wherein the confidence scores of the customers indicate an estimated amount of energy saved by the customers during the DR program, and wherein the program instructions are stored on the computer readable storage medium for execution by the CPU via the computer readable memory.
19. The system of claim 18, further comprising: program instructions to determine potentially an estimated amount of energy to purchase based on the confidence scores of the feeder, the transformer, or the customers.
</claims>
</document>
