<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-18
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-04
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/31,G06F17/21,G06F17/24,G06F17/27,G06F17/30,G06F40/117,G06F40/174,G06F40/186,G06F40/216,G06F40/226
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KIM TECHNOLOGIES
</assignee>

<inventors>
PARMAR, SWAPNIL MAHENDRAKUMAR
YAWN, RICHARD ALLEN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61620172
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Actively adapted knowledge base, content calibration, and content recognition
</title>

<abstract>
Systems for automatic document generation automatic content recognition may comprise a storage medium and a processor coupled to the storage medium. The processor may generate and/or process a document template and receive client data. In some embodiments, the processor may automatically determine whether the client data is compliant with at least one content control standard based on a comparison between the client data and at least one text variant and, if so, may automatically generate a processed document using the client data and the document template. In some embodiments, the processor may establish at least one normative form for the document template, automatically compare the client data with the normative form content, automatically recognize that the client data corresponds to the document template based on the comparing, and automatically generate a processed document using the client data and the document template.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for automatic document generation comprising: generating, by a processor, a document template, the generating of the document template comprising: mapping at least one data tagging element from at least one annotated document onto a base structure, wherein the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings collectively define a scheme for the document template, storing the document template including the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings in a storage medium, and processing the document template to automatically generate a document template identifier for the document template, the document template identifier comprising a numeric sequence generated based on at least one feature of the document template, and automatically generate a separate data tagging element identifier for each respective data tagging element contained in the document template, each separate data tagging element identifier comprising a respective numeric sequence generated based on at least one feature of the respective data tagging element; generating, by the processor, at least one content control for the at least one data tagging element, the at least one content control comprising: at least one text variant, each respective at least one text variant including at least one text content word or phrase, a respective weighting for each respective at least one text variant, and at least one content control standard, wherein compliance with the at least one content control standard is established by meeting a threshold level representing a threshold percentage of similarity with the at least one content control, the generating of the at least one content control comprising: receiving a user definition for each respective at least one text variant for the at least one content control, receiving a user definition for each respective weighting for each respective at least one text variant for the at least one content control, and determining the threshold percentage as a function of a number of text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant and weightings for the text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant; receiving, by the processor, client data comprising text content submitted by a user; automatically validating, by the processor, the client data using at least one of the document template identifier and the separate data tagging element identifiers to determine that the client data corresponds to the document template, the validating comprising processing the text content of the client data to obtain at least one numeric value and determining that at least one distance between the at least one numeric value and the at least one numeric sequence of the at least one of the document template identifier and the separate data tagging element identifiers is within a matching distance range; automatically determining, by the processor, whether the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard, the determining including: for each respective at least one text variant, comparing the text content of the client data with the respective text variant to determine a respective text variant weighting indicating a degree of variation between the text content of the client data and the respective text variant, accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective at least one text variant into a score representing a percentage of text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant, and comparing the score with the threshold level, wherein the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard when the percentage represented by the score is below the threshold level; in response to determining the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard: automatically generating, by the processor, a processed document using the client data and the document template, and storing, by the processor, the processed document to the storage medium; and in response to determining the client data is not compliant with the at least one content control standard, notifying, by the processor, a user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein generating the at least one content control comprises extracting, by the processor, the at least one content control and/or the at least one text variant from the at least one annotated document.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective at least one text variant into the score comprises adding the respective text variant weightings for the client data corresponding to each at least one text variant to generate a rebalancing total.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard when the rebalancing total is equal to or greater than a first threshold value.
5. The method of claim 3, wherein the client data is not compliant with the at least one content control standard when the rebalancing total is less than a first threshold value.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein notifying the user comprises indicating that user evaluation of the content is required when the rebalancing total is equal to or greater than a second threshold value less than the first threshold value.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising generating, by the processor, the processed document using the client data and the document template in response to receiving the user evaluation of the content.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein automatically determining whether the client data is compliant with the at least one text variant for the at least one content control comprises determining whether the client data is nullified by at least one nullification rule.
9. A system for automatic document generation comprising: a storage medium; and a processor coupled to the storage medium, the processor configured to: generate a document template, the generating of the document template comprising: mapping at least one data tagging element from at least one annotated document onto a base structure, wherein the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings collectively define a scheme for the document template, storing the document template including the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings in the storage medium, and process the document template to automatically generate a document template identifier for the document template, the document template identifier comprising a numeric sequence generated based on at least one feature of the document template, and automatically generate a separate data tagging element identifier for each respective data tagging element contained in the document template, each separate data tagging element identifier comprising a respective numeric sequence generated based on at least one feature of the respective data tagging element; generate at least one content control for the at least one data tagging element, the at least one content control comprising: at least one text variant, each respective at least one text variant including at least one text content word or phrase, a respective weighting for each respective at least one text variant, and at least one content control standard, wherein compliance with the at least one content control standard is established by meeting a threshold level representing a threshold percentage of similarity with the at least one content control, the generating of the at least one content control comprising: receiving a user definition for each respective at least one text variant for the at least one content control, receiving a user definition for each respective weighting for each respective at least one text variant for the at least one content control, and determining the threshold percentage as a function of a number of text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant and weightings for the text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant; receive client data comprising text content submitted by a user; automatically validate the client data using at least one of the document template identifier and the separate data tagging element identifiers to determine that the client data corresponds to the document template, the validating comprising processing the text content of the client data to obtain at least one numeric value and determining that at least one distance between the at least one numeric value and the at least one numeric sequence of the at least one of the document template identifier and the separate data tagging element identifiers is within a matching distance range; automatically determine whether the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard, the determining including: for each respective at least one text variant, comparing the text content of the client data with the respective text variant to determine a respective text variant weighting indicating a degree of variation between the text content of the client data and the respective text variant, accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective at least one text variant into a score representing a percentage of text content words or phrases different from the at least one text variant, and comparing the score with the threshold level, wherein the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard when the percentage represented by the score is below the threshold level; in response to determining the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard: automatically generate a processed document using the client data and the document template, and store the processed document to the storage medium; and in response to determining the client data is not compliant with the at least one content control standard, notify a user.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the processor is configured to generate the at least one content control by extracting the at least one content control and/or the at least one text variant from the at least one annotated document.
11. The system of claim 9, wherein the accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective at least one text variant into the score comprises adding the respective text variant weightings for the client data corresponding to each at least one text variant to generate a rebalancing total.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the client data is compliant with the at least one content control standard when the rebalancing total is equal to or greater than a first threshold value.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein the client data is not compliant with the at least one content control standard when the rebalancing total is less than a first threshold value.
14. The system of claim 13, wherein notifying the user comprises indicating that user evaluation of the content is required when the rebalancing total is equal to or greater than a second threshold value less than the first threshold value.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein the processor is further configured to generate the processed document using the client data and the document template in response to receiving the user evaluation of the content.
16. The system of claim 9, wherein automatically determining whether the client data is compliant with the at least one text variant for the at least one content control comprises determining whether the client data is nullified by at least one nullification rule.
17. A method for automatic content recognition, the method comprising: generating, by a processor, a document template, the generating of the document template comprising: mapping at least one data tagging element from at least one annotated document onto a base structure, wherein the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings collectively define a scheme for the document template, storing the document template including the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings in a storage medium, establishing at least one normative form for the document template, the at least one normative form comprising respective normative form content for each respective data tagging element, the respective normative form content each including at least one text content word or phrase, and storing the normative form content in the storage medium; receiving, by the processor, client data comprising text content; automatically determining, by the processor, that the client data corresponds to the document template, the determining including: for each at least one normative form, comparing the text content of the client data with the respective normative form content, the comparing including determining a respective text variant weighting indicating a degree of variation between the text content of the client data and the respective normative form content, the degree of variation representing a percentage of words or phrases of the text content of the client data different from the text content of the respective normative form content, accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective normative form into a score representing an overall degree of variation, and; comparing the score with a threshold level to determine that the overall degree of variation is below the threshold level, thereby recognizing that the client data corresponds to the document template; automatically generating, by the processor, a processed document using the client data and the document template, and storing, by the processor, the processed document to the storage medium.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising automatically determining, by the processor, a similarity between the client data and the document template based on the comparing.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein: the document template comprises at least one respective content control corresponding to each respective data tagging element, the at least one respective content control comprising at least one respective text variant for the at least one respective content control; and automatically determining the similarity comprises: determining a respective best text variant for each respective content control; and determining a match score describing a similarity between at least a portion of the client data and at least one of the best text variants.
20. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the match score comprises determining a string distance between the portion of the client data and at least one of the best text variants.
21. The method of claim 19, wherein determining the match score comprises determining a cumulative relative frequency for the portion of the client data.
22. The method of claim 17, further comprising generating, by the processor, at least one respective content control corresponding to each respective data tagging element, the at least one respective content control comprising at least one text variant for the respective at least one content control.
23. The method of claim 17, wherein each at least one respective weighting defines a score for client data corresponding to each respective at least one text variant.
24. The method of claim 17, further comprising encoding, by the processor, the normative form content, the encoding comprising grouping at least one text phrase in the normative form content into at least one numerically identifiable sequence.
25. The method of claim 24, wherein automatically comparing the client data with the normative form content comprises: encoding, by the processor, the client data, the encoding comprising grouping at least one text phrase in the client data into at least one numerically identifiable client data sequence; and comparing, by the processor, the at least one numerically identifiable sequence with the at least one numerically identifiable client data sequence.
26. A system for automatic content recognition comprising: a storage medium; and a processor coupled to the storage medium, the processor configured to: generate a document template, the generating of the document template comprising: mapping at least one data tagging element from at least one annotated document onto a base structure, wherein the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings collectively define a scheme for the document template, storing the document template including the respective data tagging elements and the respective mappings in the storage medium, establishing at least one normative form for the document template, the at least one normative form comprising respective normative form content for each respective data tagging element, the respective normative form content each including at least one text content word or phrase, and storing the normative form content in the storage medium; receive client data comprising text content; automatically determine that the client data corresponds to the document template, the determining including: for each at least one normative form, comparing the text content of the client data with the respective normative form content, the comparing including determining a respective text variant weighting indicating a degree of variation between the text content of the client data and the respective normative form content, the degree of variation representing a percentage of words or phrases of the text content of the client data different from the text content of the respective normative form content; accumulating the respective text variant weightings for each respective normative form into a score representing an overall degree of variation, and comparing the score with a threshold level to determine that the overall degree of variation is below the threshold level, thereby recognizing that the client data corresponds to the document template; automatically generate a processed document using the client data and the document template, and store the processed document to the storage medium.
27. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further configured to automatically determine a similarity between the client data and the document template based on the comparing.
28. The system of claim 27, wherein: the document template comprises at least one respective content control corresponding to each respective data tagging element, the at least one respective content control comprising at least one respective text variant for the at least one respective content control; and automatically determining the similarity comprises: determining a respective best text variant for each respective content control; and determining a match score describing a similarity between at least a portion of the client data and at least one of the best text variants.
29. The system of claim 28, wherein determining the match score comprises determining a string distance between the portion of the client data and at least one of the best text variants.
30. The system of claim 28, wherein determining the match score comprises determining a cumulative relative frequency for the portion of the client data.
31. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further configured to generate at least one respective content control corresponding to each respective data tagging element, the at least one respective content control comprising at least one text variant for the respective at least one content control.
32. The system of claim 26, wherein each at least one respective weighting defines a score for client data corresponding to each respective at least one text variant.
33. The system of claim 26, wherein the processor is further configured to encode the normative form content, the encoding comprising grouping at least one text phrase in the normative form content into at least one numerically identifiable sequence.
34. The system of claim 33, wherein automatically comparing the client data with the normative form content comprises: encoding the client data, the encoding comprising grouping at least one text phrase in the client data into at least one numerically identifiable client data sequence; and comparing the at least one numerically identifiable sequence with the at least one numerically identifiable client data sequence.
</claims>
</document>
