<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-12
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L12/745,H04L29/06,H04L29/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
EQUINIX
</assignee>

<inventors>
DURRANI, MUHAMMAD
LI, DANJUE
SHEIKH, IMAM
Xi, Chen
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
74067151
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Routing protocol security using a distributed ledger
</title>

<abstract>
In one example, a method includes receiving, by a first network device via a routing protocol peering session with a peer router in a first autonomous system, a plurality of routing protocol routes to destination addresses, each routing protocol route specifying a network address prefix and an identifier of the autonomous system that originated the routing protocol route; receiving network address prefix ownership information from a distributed ledger storing a plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and respective autonomous system identifiers of autonomous systems confirmed to own the respective network address prefixes; determining, based at least on the prefix ownership information, whether any of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the associations; and in response to determining that one of the routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, performing an action.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: receiving, by a first network device via a routing protocol peering session with a peer router in a first autonomous system, a plurality of routing protocol routes to destination addresses, each routing protocol route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifying a network address prefix and an identifier of the autonomous system that originated the routing protocol route; receiving, by the first network device, network address prefix ownership information from a distributed ledger storing a plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and respective autonomous system identifiers of autonomous systems confirmed to own the respective network address prefixes; receiving, by the first network device from a second network device associated with a second autonomous system, threat pattern data indicating patterns in routing protocol route changes in the second autonomous system; determining, by the first network device and based at least on the network address prefix ownership information and the threat pattern data, whether any of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations; and in response to determining that a route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, performing, by the first network device, an action.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first network device comprises a participating node of the distributed ledger, the method further comprising: storing, by the first network device, a copy of the plurality of associations between the respective network address prefixes and the autonomous system identifiers, and wherein receiving the network address prefix ownership information comprises obtaining the network address prefix ownership information from the stored copy.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the network address prefix ownership information comprises obtaining the network address prefix ownership information from a participating node of the distributed ledger, the participating node being distinct from the first network device.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: in response to determining that a route of the plurality of routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, sending an indication of the determination to the second autonomous system.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the network address prefix ownership information from the distributed ledger comprises obtaining the network address prefix ownership information in response to receiving the plurality of routing protocol routes.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the network address prefix ownership information from the distributed ledger comprises obtaining the network address prefix ownership information in response to receiving the threat pattern data.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein receiving the network address prefix ownership information from the distributed ledger comprises periodically receiving the network address prefix ownership information according to a configurable time period.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the distributed ledger stores the plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and autonomous system identifiers in encrypted form, the method further comprising: decrypting, by the first network device, the network address prefix ownership information.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the threat pattern data is first threat pattern data, the method further comprising: generating, by the first network device, second threat pattern data based on the plurality of routing protocol routes received via the routing protocol session with the peer router in the first autonomous system; and sending, by the first network device, the second threat pattern data to the second network device associated with the second autonomous system.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein performing an action comprises outputting an alert.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein performing an action comprises configuring the peer router to remove the route.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the routing protocol peering session comprises a Border Gateway Protocol peering session, and wherein receiving the plurality of routing protocol routes comprises receiving one or more BGP update messages.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the distributed ledger comprises a blockchain.
14. A system comprising a plurality of autonomous systems, each comprising a corresponding plurality of routers exchanging routing information via routing protocol advertisements; a distributed ledger storing a plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and autonomous system identifiers of the autonomous systems of the plurality of autonomous systems that are confirmed to own the associated network address prefixes; a plurality of routing protocol security engines, each associated with a corresponding one of the plurality of autonomous systems, wherein each of the plurality of routing protocol security engines comprises: processing circuitry operable to: receive, via a routing protocol peering session with a peer router in a particular autonomous system of the plurality of autonomous systems, a plurality of routing protocol routes to destination addresses, each routing protocol route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifying a network address prefix and an identifier of the autonomous system that originated the routing protocol route; receive network address prefix ownership information from a distributed ledger storing a plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and respective autonomous system identifiers of autonomous systems confirmed to own the respective network address prefixes; receive from a different one of the plurality of routing protocol security engines associated with a second autonomous system of the plurality of autonomous systems, threat pattern data indicating patterns in routing protocol route changes in the second autonomous system; determine based at least on the network address prefix ownership information and the threat pattern data, whether any of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations; and in response to determining that a route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, performing an action.
15. The system of claim 14, wherein each of the plurality of routing protocol security engines comprises a participating node of the distributed ledger, the processing circuitry further operable to store a copy of the plurality of associations between the respective network address prefixes and the autonomous system identifiers, and wherein the processing circuitry operable to receive the network address prefix ownership information comprises processing circuitry operable to obtain the network address prefix ownership information from the stored copy.
16. The system of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry operable to receive the network address prefix ownership information comprises processing circuitry operable to obtain the network address prefix ownership information from a participating node of the distributed ledger, the participating node being distinct from the first network device.
17. The system of claim 14, the processing circuitry further operable to: in response to determining that a route of the plurality of routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, send an indication of the determination to the second autonomous system.
18. The system of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry operable to receive the network address prefix ownership information comprises processing circuitry operable to obtain the network address prefix ownership information in response to receiving the plurality of routing protocol routes.
19. The system of claim 14, wherein the processing circuitry operable to receive the network address prefix ownership information comprises processing circuitry operable to obtain the network address prefix ownership information in response to receiving the threat pattern data.
20. A non-transitory computer-readable storage medium encoded with instructions for causing one or more programmable processors of a first network device to: receive, via a routing protocol peering session with a peer router in a first autonomous system, a plurality of routing protocol routes to destination addresses, each routing protocol route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifying a network address prefix and an identifier of the autonomous system that originated the routing protocol route; receive network address prefix ownership information from a distributed ledger storing a plurality of associations between respective network address prefixes and respective autonomous system identifiers of autonomous systems confirmed to own the respective network address prefixes; receive, from a second network device associated with a second autonomous system, threat pattern data indicating patterns in routing protocol route changes in the second autonomous system; determine, based at least on the network address prefix ownership information and the threat pattern data, whether any of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations; and in response to determining that a route of the plurality of routing protocol routes specifies an autonomous system identifier different than specified by the plurality of associations, perform an action.
</claims>
</document>
