<document>

<filing_date>
2019-07-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-07-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04B7/04,H04B7/0456
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
QUALCOMM
</assignee>

<inventors>
YOO, TAESANG
MALLIK, SIDDHARTHA
NOORZAD, PARHAM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71465455
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine-learning based method for MIMO detection complexity reduction
</title>

<abstract>
A machine-learning based multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) demapper for a wireless device may include a classifier that selects which MIMO demapper to use for a sample for a particular tone. For example, a wireless device may receive via a plurality of antennas a plurality of signals including a plurality of tones. The wireless device may determine selection features for each tone of the plurality of tones. The wireless device may select, for each tone, by the classifier based on the selection features, a selected demapper from at least a first MIMO demapper and a second MIMO demapper. The second MIMO demapper may have a different performance characteristic than the first MIMO demapper. The wireless device may detect, for each tone, one or more streams using the selected demapper for the tone. A stream may refer to a sequence of bits.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of wireless communication, comprising: receiving, via a plurality of antennas, a plurality of signals including a plurality of tones; determining selection features for each tone of the plurality of tones; selecting, for each tone, by a classifier based on the selection features, a selected demapper from at least a first multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) demapper and a second MIMO demapper, wherein the second MIMO demapper has a different performance characteristic than the first MIMO demapper, wherein the first MIMO demapper is a successive interference cancellation (SIC) MIMO demapper that produces partial distances and a set of bits for each tone; and determining, for each tone, one or more streams based on an output of the selected demapper for each tone.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the selecting comprises: determining, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; selecting the first MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is greater than a threshold; and selecting the second MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is less than or equal to the threshold.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein a number of tones for the second MIMO demapper is less than a number of the plurality of tones, and wherein the selecting, for each tone, comprises: determining, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; ranking the plurality of tones based on the confidence value of the first MIMO demapper; and selecting up to the number of tones for the second MIMO demapper based on the ranking.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the selection features for each tone comprises using the partial distances as the selection features.
5. The method of claim 4, wherein determining, for each tone, the one or more streams using the SIC MIMO demapper as the selected demapper comprises outputting the set of bits for each tone.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein the classifier outputs a weight for each tone, wherein determining, for each tone, the one or more streams using the SIC MIMO demapper as the selected demapper comprises determining a log likelihood ratio based on the weight and the set of bits for each tone.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the second MIMO demapper is a fixed complexity approximate maximum likelihood demapper.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the classifier is a neural network classifier trained based on a sphere decoder output as a correct output for each sample for a training set of input signals and channel conditions.
9. An apparatus for wireless communication, comprising: a memory; and at least one processor coupled to the memory and configured to: receive via a plurality of antennas a plurality of signals including a plurality of tones; determine selection features for each tone of the plurality of tones; select, for each tone, by a classifier based on the selection features, a selected demapper from at least a first multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) demapper and a second MIMO demapper, wherein the second MIMO demapper has a different performance characteristic than the first MIMO demapper, wherein the first MIMO demapper is a successive interference cancellation (SIC) MIMO demapper that produces partial distances and a set of bits for each tone; and determine, for each tone, one or more streams based on an output of the selected demapper for each tone.
10. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is configured to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; select the first MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is greater than a threshold; and select the second MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is less than or equal to the threshold.
11. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein a number of tones for the second MIMO demapper is less than a number of the plurality of tones, and wherein the at least one processor is configured to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; rank the plurality of tones based on the confidence value of the first MIMO demapper; and select up to the number of tones for the second MIMO demapper based on the ranking.
12. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the at least one processor is configured to use the partial distances as the selection features.
13. The apparatus of claim 12, wherein the at least one processor is configured to output the set of bits for each tone for which the first MIMO demapper is selected.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the classifier outputs a weight for each tone, wherein the at least one processor is configured to determine a log likelihood ratio based on the weight and the set of bits for the tone.
15. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the second MIMO demapper is a fixed complexity approximate maximum likelihood demapper.
16. The apparatus of claim 9, wherein the classifier is a neural network classifier trained based on a sphere decoder output as a correct output for each sample for a training set of input signals and channel conditions.
17. An apparatus for wireless communication, comprising: means for receiving via a plurality of antennas a plurality of signals including a plurality of tones; means for determining selection features for each tone of the plurality of tones; means for selecting, for each tone, by a classifier based on the selection features, a selected demapper from at least a first multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) demapper and a second MIMO demapper, wherein the second MIMO demapper has a different performance characteristic than the first MIMO demapper, wherein the first MIMO demapper is a successive interference cancellation (SIC) MIMO demapper that produces partial distances and a set of bits for each tone; and means for determining, for each tone, one or more streams based on an output of the selected demapper for each tone.
18. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the means for selecting is configured to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; select the first MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is greater than a threshold; and select the second MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is less than or equal to the threshold.
19. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein a number of tones for the second MIMO demapper is less than a number of the plurality of tones, and wherein the means for selecting is configured to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; rank the plurality of tones based on the confidence value of the first MIMO demapper; and select up to the number of tones for the second MIMO demapper based on the rank.
20. The apparatus of claim 19, wherein the means for determining the selection features for each tone is configured to use the partial distances as the selection features.
21. The apparatus of claim 20, wherein the means for determining the one or more streams, using the SIC MIMO demapper as the selected demapper, is configured to output the set of bits for each tone.
22. The apparatus of claim 21, wherein the classifier outputs a weight for each tone, wherein the means for determining the one or more streams, using the SIC MIMO demapper as the selected demapper, is configured to determine a log likelihood ratio based on the weight and the set of bits for each tone.
23. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the second MIMO demapper is a fixed complexity approximate maximum likelihood demapper.
24. The apparatus of claim 17, wherein the classifier is a neural network classifier trained based on a sphere decoder output as a correct output for each sample for a training set of input signals and channel conditions.
25. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing computer executable code, the code when executed by a processor causes the processor to: receive via a plurality of antennas a plurality of signals including a plurality of tones; determine selection features for each tone of the plurality of tones; select, for each tone, by a classifier based on the selection features, a selected demapper from at least a first multiple-input, multiple-output (MIMO) demapper and a second MIMO demapper, wherein the second MIMO demapper has a different performance characteristic than the first MIMO demapper, wherein the first MIMO demapper is a successive interference cancellation (SIC) MIMO demapper that produces partial distances and a set of bits for each tone; and determine, for each tone, one or more streams based on an output of the selected demapper for each tone.
26. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the code to select the selected demapper comprises code to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; select the first MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is greater than a threshold; and select the second MIMO demapper for tones where the confidence value is less than or equal to the threshold.
27. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein a number of tones for the second MIMO demapper is less than a number of the plurality of tones, and wherein the code to select the selected demapper comprises code to: determine, by the classifier, a confidence value of the first MIMO demapper for each tone; rank the plurality of tones based on the confidence value of the first MIMO demapper; and select up to the number of tones for the second MIMO demapper based on the ranking.
28. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the code to determine the selection features comprises code to use the partial distances as the selection features.
29. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 28, wherein the code to determine the one or more streams includes code to output the set of bits for each tone for which the first MIMO demapper is selected.
30. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 25, wherein the classifier is a neural network classifier trained based on a sphere decoder output as a correct output for each sample for a training set of input signals and channel conditions.
</claims>
</document>
