<document>

<filing_date>
2018-02-22
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-20
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F24F11/38,F24F11/49,F24F140/12,F24F140/60,F25B49/00,G05B17/02,G05B23/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SCHNEIDER ELECTRIC USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
BUDA, PAUL, R.
LYTTLE, IAN J.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
65686109
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection of efficiency degradation in HVAC and R systems
</title>

<abstract>
An HVAC&R monitor detects short-term and long-term system efficiency degradations by modeling either compressor input power or current. The model is continuously updated with new or recent temperature and power parameter measurements reflecting the most up-to-date operating condition of the system. Short-term system degradations are detected instantaneously by comparing compressor power or current as predicted by the model against measured power or current usage. Long-term system degradations are detected over time by monitoring the sensitivity of the compressor power or current usage to evaporator and/or condenser fluid temperatures. An appropriate warning and/or signal may be issued if system efficiency degradation is detected.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A monitor for a heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC&R) system having a compressor, a condenser, and an evaporator, comprising: a system temperature processor operable to obtain fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator, the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and the evaporator being obtained from temperature sensors located near the condenser and the evaporator, respectively, or from proxies of the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and for the evaporator, respectively; a power parameter processor operable to obtain one or more power parameter measurements for the compressor using one or more current detection devices mounted on the compressor, respectively; and a compressor input processor operable to provide an estimate of a compressor input power parameter for the compressor using the fluid temperature measurements and the one or more power parameter measurements; wherein the compressor input processor is configured to obtain updated fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and updated fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator from the system temperature processor, obtain updated one or more power parameter measurements from the power parameter processor, and provide an updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter for the compressor using the updated fluid temperature measurements and the updated one or more power parameter measurements, the compressor input processor further configured to detect degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system using the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter and the updated one or more power parameter measurements and issue a warning and/or signal if degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system is detected.
2. The monitor of claim 1, wherein the compressor input processor is configured to detect degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system by comparing the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter to the updated one or more power parameter measurements and issue a short-term efficiency degradation signal if the updated one or more power parameter measurements deviate from the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter by more than a predefined amount.
3. The monitor of claim 1, wherein the compressor input power parameter comprises one of a power delivered to the compressor or a current delivered to the compressor.
4. The monitor of claim 3, wherein the compressor input processor estimates the compressor input power parameter by modeling the compressor input power parameter using a baseline power component and at least one fluid temperature sensitivity component.
5. The monitor of claim 4, wherein the at least one fluid temperature sensitivity component comprises at least one sensitivity parameter multiplied by at least one fluid temperature measurement, the at least one sensitivity parameter indicating a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the at least one fluid temperature measurements.
6. The monitor of claim 5, wherein the at least one sensitivity parameter comprises a condenser sensitivity parameter that indicates a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and an evaporator sensitivity parameter that indicates a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator.
7. The monitor of claim 5, wherein the at least one fluid temperature measurements includes one or more of condenser intake fluid temperature measurements and condenser exhaust temperature measurements and one or more of evaporator intake fluid temperature measurements and evaporator exhaust temperature measurements.
8. The monitor of claim 5, wherein the compressor input processor is further configured to derive the at least one sensitivity parameter using the at least one fluid temperature measurement and the one or more power parameter measurements and derive at least one updated sensitivity parameter using at least one updated fluid temperature measurement and the updated one or more power parameter measurements.
9. The monitor of claim 8, wherein the compressor input processor is configured to detect degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system by comparing the at least one sensitivity parameter to the at least one updated sensitivity parameter and issue a long-term efficiency degradation warning and/or signal if the at least one sensitivity parameter differs from the at least one updated sensitivity parameter by more than a predefined amount.
10. The monitor of claim 1, wherein the one or more power parameters include a current of the compressor, a voltage of the compressor, real power of the compressor, apparent power of the compressor, or reactive power of the compressor.
11. A method of detecting efficiency degradation in a heating, ventilating, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC & R) system having a compressor, a condenser connected to the compressor, and an evaporator connected to the condenser, the method comprising: obtaining fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator, the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and the evaporator being obtained from temperature sensors located near the condenser and the evaporator, respectively, or from proxies of the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and the evaporator, respectively; obtaining one or more power parameter measurements for the compressor using one or more current detection devices mounted to detect current flowing into the compressor; estimating a compressor input power parameter for the compressor using the fluid temperature measurements and the one or more power parameter measurements; obtaining updated fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and updated fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator and updated one or more power parameter measurements; providing an updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter using the updated fluid temperature measurements and the updated one or more power parameter measurements; detecting degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system using the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter and the updated one or more power parameter measurements; and issuing a signal if degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system is detected.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system comprises comparing the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter to the updated one or more power parameter measurements and issuing a short-term efficiency degradation warning and/or signal if the updated one or more power parameter measurements deviate from the updated estimate of the compressor input power parameter by more than a predefined amount.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the compressor input power parameter comprises one of a power delivered to the compressor or a current delivered to the compressor.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein estimating the compressor input power parameter comprises modeling the compressor input power parameter using a baseline power component and at least one fluid temperature sensitivity component.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein the at least one fluid temperature sensitivity component comprises at least one sensitivity parameter multiplied by at least one fluid temperature measurement, the at least one sensitivity parameter indicating a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the at least one fluid temperature measurements.
16. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one sensitivity parameter comprises a condenser sensitivity parameter that indicates a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the fluid temperature measurements for the condenser and an evaporator sensitivity parameter that indicates a sensitivity of the compressor input power parameter to the fluid temperature measurements for the evaporator.
17. The method of claim 15, wherein the at least one fluid temperature measurements includes one or more of condenser intake fluid temperature measurements and condenser exhaust temperature measurements and one or more of evaporator intake fluid temperature measurements and evaporator exhaust temperature measurements.
18. The method of claim 15, further comprising deriving the at least one sensitivity parameter using the at least one fluid temperature measurement and the one or more power parameter measurements and deriving at least one updated sensitivity parameter using at least one updated fluid temperature measurement and the updated one or more power parameter measurements.
19. The method of claim 11, wherein detecting degradation of operational efficiency in the HVAC&R system comprises comparing the at least one sensitivity parameter to the at least one updated sensitivity parameter and issuing a long-term efficiency degradation warning and/or signal if the at least one sensitivity parameter differs from the at least one updated sensitivity parameter by more than a predefined amount.
20. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more power parameters include a current of the compressor, a voltage of the compressor, real power of the compressor, apparent power of the compressor, or reactive power of the compressor.
</claims>
</document>
