<document>

<filing_date>
2018-09-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-02-26
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05D1/00,G05D1/02
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WAYMO
</assignee>

<inventors>
LAFORGE, SETH, MICHAEL
ROBINSON, CRAIG LEWIN
SMITH, RUSSELL
TISDALE, JOHN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61525538
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for determining pose data for a vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
Example systems and methods are disclosed for determining vehicle pose data for an autonomous vehicle. The vehicle computer system may receive pose data from multiple pose measurement systems of the autonomous vehicle. Each pose measurement system may include one or more corresponding sensors of the autonomous vehicle. The vehicle computer system may determine a pose data quality for the received pose data for each pose measurement system. The vehicle computer system may set the vehicle pose data to the pose data of the pose measurement system with the highest pose data quality. The vehicle computer system may control the autonomous vehicle based on the vehicle pose data.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: determining first pose data for an autonomous vehicle based on first sensor data from a first plurality of sensors; determining a first confidence level for the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors, wherein the first confidence level is determined, at least in part, by determining whether the first sensor data are within a plausible range; determining second pose data for the autonomous vehicle based on second sensor data from a second plurality of sensors; determining a second confidence level for the second sensor data from the second plurality of sensors, wherein the second confidence level is determined, at least in part, by determining whether the second sensor data are within a plausible range; and controlling, by a vehicle computer system, motion of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the controlling is based on at least a portion of the first pose data if the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and the controlling is based on at least a portion of the second pose data if the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and wherein the control of the motion of the autonomous vehicle is based on the first pose data.
3. The method of claim 2 further comprising: reducing the first confidence level based on a determination that the first sensor data are outside a plausible range; after reducing the first confidence level, determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level; and responsive to determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level, modifying the control of the motion of the autonomous vehicle to be based on the second pose data instead of the first pose data.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein controlling motion of the autonomous vehicle comprises controlling the autonomous vehicle to perform an emergency maneuver if all confidence levels for sensor data are determined to be low.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising associating a timestamp with the first sensor data, and wherein determining whether the first sensor data are within a plausible range includes determining whether the timestamp is within a plausible range.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first confidence level for the first pose data includes crosschecking the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the first confidence level for the first pose data includes determining a covariance of the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first pose data and the second pose data define an offset between them, and wherein determining the first confidence level for the first sensor data includes tracking the offset between the first pose data and the second pose data.
9. A system comprising: a first pose measurement system for an autonomous vehicle, comprising: a first plurality of sensors; and a first processor configured to determine first pose data for the autonomous vehicle based on first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors and to determine a first confidence level for the first sensor data based, at least in part, by determining whether the first sensor data are within a plausible range; a second pose measurement system for an autonomous vehicle, comprising: a second plurality of sensors; and a second processor configured to determine second pose data for the autonomous vehicle based on second sensor data from the second plurality of sensors and to determine a second confidence level for the second sensor data based, at least in part, by determining whether the second sensor data are within a plausible range; and a vehicle control system comprising a vehicle-control processor and a memory storing instructions executable by the vehicle-control processor to perform functions comprising: receiving the first pose data from the first pose measurement system; receiving the second pose data from the second pose measurement system; and controlling motion of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the controlling is based on at least a portion of the first pose data if the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and the controlling is based on at least a portion of the second pose data if the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level.
10. The system of claim 9, wherein the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and wherein the control of the autonomous vehicle is based on the first pose data.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the first confidence level is reduced by the first processor based on a determination that the first sensor data are outside a plausible range, wherein the functions further comprise: after the first confidence is reduced by the first processor, determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level; and responsive to determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level, modifying the control of the motion of the autonomous vehicle to be based on the second pose data instead of the first pose data.
12. The system of claim 9, wherein the functions further include controlling the autonomous vehicle to perform an emergency maneuver if all confidence levels for sensor data are determined to be low.
13. The system of claim 9, wherein the first processor is further configured to determine the first confidence level for the first pose data, at least in part, by crosschecking the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors.
14. The system of claim 9, wherein the first processor is further configured to determine the first confidence level for the first pose data, at least in part, by determining a covariance of the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors.
15. The system of claim 9 wherein the first pose data and the second pose data define an offset between them, and wherein the first processor is further configured to determine the first confidence level for the first pose data, at least in part, by tracking the offset between the first pose data and the second pose data.
16. A non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that are executable by one or more computing devices to perform functions comprising: determining first pose data for an autonomous vehicle based on first sensor data from a first plurality of sensors; determining a first confidence level for the first sensor data from the first plurality of sensors, wherein the first confidence level is determined, at least in part, by determining whether the first sensor data are within a plausible range; determining second pose data for the autonomous vehicle based on second sensor data from a second plurality of sensors; determining a second confidence level for the second sensor data from the second plurality of sensors, wherein the second confidence level is determined, at least in part, by determining whether the second sensor data are within a plausible range; and controlling motion of the autonomous vehicle, wherein the controlling based on at least a portion of the first pose data if the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and the controlling is based on at least a portion of the second pose data if the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level.
17. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first confidence level is greater than the second confidence level, and wherein the control of the motion of the autonomous vehicle is based on the first pose data.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein the functions further comprise: reducing the first confidence level based on a determination that the first sensor data are outside a plausible range; after reducing the first confidence level, determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level; and responsive to determining that the second confidence level is greater than the first confidence level, modifying the control of the motion of the autonomous vehicle to be based on the second pose data instead of the first pose data.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the functions further comprise controlling the autonomous vehicle to perform an emergency maneuver if all confidence levels for sensor data are determined to be low.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the first pose data and the second pose data define an offset between them, and wherein the function of determining the first confidence level for the first sensor data includes tracking the offset between the first pose data and the second pose data.
</claims>
</document>
