<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-03
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-22
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-03
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/34,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L29/08,H04L9/06,H04W40/24
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SERBAN, CRISTINA
GROSS, DAVID
RAMACHANDRAN, JAYARAMAN
LEVY, DONALD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70848509
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and procedure for generating reputation scores for IoT devices based on distributed analysis
</title>

<abstract>
Aspects of the subject disclosure may include, for example, a method including obtaining a first set of votes from devices that are registered and enabled by a registration system to form a first network communicating with a processing system. The first set of votes relate to performance of a target device and indicate conformance to performance criteria for the first network. The processing system receives a reputation score for the target device from the registration system, and receives a second set of votes regarding target device performance from voting systems over a second network comprising a peer network including the processing system and the voting systems. The first and second sets of votes and the reputation score are aggregated to generate an updated reputation score for the target device. The registration system disables the target device when the reputation score falls below a threshold. Other embodiments are disclosed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: obtaining, by a processing system including a processor, a first set of votes from a plurality of devices, the plurality of devices registered at and enabled by a registration system to form a first network communicating with the processing system, the first set of votes regarding performance of a target device and indicating a degree of conformance of the target device to performance criteria for the first network; receiving, by the processing system, a reputation score for the target device from the registration system; receiving, by the processing system, a second set of votes regarding performance of the target device from a plurality of voting systems over a second network, the second network comprising a peer network including the processing system and the plurality of voting systems; aggregating, by the processing system, the first set of votes, the reputation score, and the second set of votes to generate an updated reputation score for the target device; and transmitting, by the processing system, the updated reputation score for the target device to the registration system, wherein the registration system disables the target device responsive to the updated reputation score being below a predetermined threshold.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of votes from the plurality of devices are weighted according to respective reputation scores of the plurality of devices.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein subsequent to disabling the target device, the registration system re-enables the target device according to a reputation score aging procedure based on an elapsed time since the disabling.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein the reputation score aging procedure applies a half-life value to determine a new reputation score for the target device.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein subsequent to disabling the target device, the registration system re-enables the target device responsive to receiving a notification that a remedial action has been performed for the target device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the processing system comprises one of the plurality of voting systems, and wherein the processing system is uniquely associated with the target device.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein the processing system is uniquely associated with the target device in accordance with a hashing procedure using a first identifier of the target device and a second identifier for the processing system.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of votes is obtained via a multicast message.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the first set of votes is obtained via a voting proxy.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the voting proxy comprises the registration system.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the aggregating to generate the updated reputation score for the target device is in accordance with votes received from a source external to the first network and the second network.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the reputation score received from the registration system is based at least in part on information regarding the target device provided to the registration system by a source external to the first network and the second network.
13. A device comprising: a processing system including a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processing system, facilitate performance of operations comprising: obtaining a first set of votes from a plurality of devices, the plurality of devices registered at and enabled by a registration system to form a first network communicating with the processing system, the first set of votes regarding performance of a target device and indicating a degree of conformance of the target device to performance criteria for the first network; receiving a reputation score for the target device from the registration system; receiving a second set of votes regarding performance of the target device from a plurality of voting systems over a second network, the second network comprising a peer network including the processing system and the plurality of voting systems, the processing system being uniquely associated with the target device; aggregating the first set of votes, the reputation score, and the second set of votes to generate an updated reputation score for the target device; and transmitting the updated reputation score for the target device to the registration system, wherein the registration system disables the target device responsive to the updated reputation score being below a predetermined threshold, and wherein subsequent to disabling the target device, the registration system re-enables the target device according to a reputation score aging procedure.
14. The device of claim 13, wherein the first set of votes from the plurality of devices are weighted according to respective reputation scores of the plurality of devices.
15. The device of claim 13, wherein the registration system re-enables the target device responsive to receiving a notification that a remedial action has been performed for the target device.
16. The device of claim 13, wherein the first set of votes is obtained via a multicast message.
17. The device of claim 13, wherein the aggregating to generate the updated reputation score for the target device is in accordance with votes received from a source external to the first network and the second network.
18. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processing system including a processor, facilitate performance of operations comprising: obtaining a first set of votes from a plurality of devices, the plurality of devices registered at and enabled by a registration system to form a first network communicating with the processing system, the first set of votes regarding performance of a target device and indicating a degree of conformance of the target device to performance criteria for the first network, wherein the first set of votes is obtained via a multicast message; receiving a reputation score for the target device from the registration system; receiving a second set of votes regarding performance of the target device from a plurality of voting systems over a second network, the second network comprising a peer network including the processing system and the plurality of voting systems, the processing system being uniquely associated with the target device; aggregating the first set of votes, the reputation score, and the second set of votes to generate an updated reputation score for the target device; and transmitting the updated reputation score for the target device to the registration system, wherein the registration system disables the target device responsive to the updated reputation score being below a predetermined threshold.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the first set of votes from the plurality of devices are weighted according to respective reputation scores of the plurality of devices.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 18, wherein the processing system is uniquely associated with the target device in accordance with a hashing procedure using a first identifier of the target device and a second identifier for the processing system.
</claims>
</document>
