<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-09
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-06-18
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/16,H04R3/04,H04R5/02,H04R5/04,H04S3/00,H04S7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BOSE CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
DUBLIN, MICHAEL SCOTT
OSWALD, CHARLES TERENCE HENRY
SALVADOR, EDUARDO T.
VAUTIN, JEFFERY ROBERT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66673632
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Phantom center image control
</title>

<abstract>
In some implementation, a method includes: receiving at least one user interface command to modify a phantom center image of audio output from the audio system in the automobile, wherein the user interface command comprises a user profile command or a preset command attributed to a user of the automobile, wherein the user profile command or the preset command is obtained from an identification file attributed to the user, wherein the phantom center image of the audio output comprises a designated position of sound produced by a set of speakers in the audio system other than physical locations of the set of speakers in the audio system; and adjusting a perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output from the audio system based upon the at least one user interface command to modify the phantom center image of the audio output.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method of controlling an audio system with at least two inputs in an automobile, the method comprising: receiving at least one user interface command to modify a phantom center image of audio output from the audio system in the automobile, wherein the user interface command comprises a user profile command or a preset command attributed to a user of the automobile, wherein the user profile command or the preset command is obtained from an identification file attributed to the user, wherein the phantom center image of the audio output comprises a designated position of sound produced by a set of speakers in the audio system other than physical locations of the set of speakers in the audio system; and adjusting a perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output from the audio system based upon the at least one user interface command to modify the phantom center image of the audio output.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the phantom center image is initially set to a default designated position.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the default designated position is defined by a user or according to a characteristic of the automobile.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one user interface command comprises a control value command for shifting the phantom center image of the audio output.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output is adjusted by modifying a filter weight on at least one speaker in the audio system.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the perceived location of the phantom center image is adjustable across a range of pre-defined angles, wherein the adjusting comprises matching the at least one user interface command to a nearest one of the pre-defined angles to provide the adjusted perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the at least one user interface command comprises a plurality of commands from distinct user interface controls to modify a plurality of phantom center images of audio output, each relative to distinct seating locations, from the audio system in the automobile.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein adjusting the perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output comprises adjusting at least one of a center image azimuth angle of the audio output, a center image distance of the audio output or a center image elevation of the audio output.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving at least one additional user interface command to modify at least one of a left channel output, a right channel output or content produced through an up-mixing of an audio system signal or additional audio channels across the audio system; and adjusting an additional spatial placement of the audio output from the audio system based upon the at least one additional user interface command.
10. An automobile audio system comprising: a set of speakers for generating an audio output in an automobile; and a control system comprising a user interface, the control system coupled with the set of speakers and configured to: receive at least one user interface command, via the user interface, to modify a phantom center image of the audio output from the set of speakers, wherein the phantom center image of the audio output comprises a designated position of sound produced by the set of speakers other than physical locations of the set of speakers; adjust a perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output from the set of speakers based upon the at least one user interface command to modify the phantom center image of the audio output, wherein the set of speakers provides the audio output across a soundstage with an approximately static left channel output and an approximately static right channel output while adjusting the perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output; apply a first set of filters that causes sound produced by the set of speakers to have characteristics at an intended position of a user's head of sound produced by a sound source located at a first designated position other than the physical locations of the set of speakers; and in response to the at least one user interface command, apply a second set of filters that causes sound produced by the set of speakers to have characteristics at the intended position of the user's head of sound produced by a sound source located at a second designated position other than the physical locations of the set of speakers and different from the first designated position.
11. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein the phantom center image is initially set to a default designated position, wherein the default designated position is defined by a user or according to a characteristic of the automobile.
12. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein control system is configured to adjust the perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output by modifying a filter weight on at least one speaker in the set of speakers.
13. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein the perceived location of the phantom center image is adjustable across a range of pre-defined angles, wherein the adjusting comprises matching the at least one user interface command to a nearest one of the pre-defined angles to provide the adjusted perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output.
14. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein the at least one user interface command comprises a plurality of commands from distinct user interface controls to modify a plurality of phantom center images of audio output, each relative to distinct seating locations, from the set of speakers.
15. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein the control system is further configured to: receive at least one additional user interface command to modify at least one of a left channel output, a right channel output or a phase difference across the set of speakers; and adjust an additional spatial placement of the audio output from the set of speakers based upon the at least one additional user interface command.
16. The automobile audio system of claim 10, wherein the designated position of sound produced by the set of speakers is detectable by the user and comprises an inter-aural phase and inter-aural level as perceived by the user that is consistent with a source from the designated position.
17. A computer-implemented method of controlling an audio system with at least two inputs in an automobile, the method comprising: receiving at least one user interface command to modify a phantom center image of audio output from the audio system in the automobile, wherein the phantom center image of the audio output comprises a designated position of sound produced by a set of speakers in the audio system other than physical locations of the set of speakers in the audio system; adjusting a perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output from the audio system based upon the at least one user interface command to modify the phantom center image of the audio output wherein the audio system provides the audio output across a soundstage with an approximately static left channel output and an approximately static right channel output while adjusting the perceived location of the phantom center image of the audio output; applying a first set of filters that causes sound produced by the set of speakers to have characteristics at an intended position of a user's head of sound produced by a sound source located at a first designated position other than the physical locations of the set of speakers; and in response to the at least one user interface command, apply a second set of filters that causes sound produced by the set of speakers to have characteristics at the intended position of the user's head of sound produced by a sound source located at a second designated position other than the physical locations of the set of speakers and different from the first designated position.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the phantom center image is initially set to a default designated position, wherein the default designated position is defined by a user or according to a characteristic of the automobile.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the at least one user interface command comprises a control value command for shifting the phantom center image of the audio output.
20. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the designated position of sound produced by the set of speakers is detectable by the user and comprises an inter-aural phase and inter-aural level as perceived by the user that is consistent with a source from the designated position.
</claims>
</document>
