<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
F01P11/16,F02D41/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CATERPILLAR
</assignee>

<inventors>
FAN, HAOLUN
SUNDARARAJ, VIVEK
WANG, YUE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70470152
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for monitoring the performance of a heat exchanger
</title>

<abstract>
A machine has a power source and a cooling system configured to circulate coolant between the power source and a heat exchanger. The cooling system has a first sensor configured to sense an ambient temperature and provide a first signal indicative of the ambient temperature and a second sensor configured to sense an actual temperature of the coolant and to provide a second signal indicative of the actual coolant temperature. The cooling system has a controller in communication with the first and second sensors to receive the first and second signals. The controller is configured to calculate, based on the ambient temperature and on a model for the heat exchanger, a predicted coolant temperature, and to compare the predicted coolant temperature to the actual coolant temperature. The controller is further configured to provide an alert based at least in part on the comparison.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A machine, comprising: a power source; a cooling system configured to circulate coolant between the power source and a heat exchanger, the cooling system comprising: a first sensor configured to sense an ambient temperature and provide a first signal indicative of the ambient temperature; a second sensor configured to sense an actual temperature of the coolant and to provide a second signal indicative of the actual coolant temperature; and a controller in communication with the first and second sensors to receive the first and second signals, the controller being configured to: determine, based on the ambient temperature and on a model for the heat exchanger, a predicted coolant temperature; compare, over a period of time, the predicted coolant temperature to the actual coolant temperature; determine, based on the comparison, that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by an amount that increases over the period of time, the amount of increase corresponding to a degradation of performance of the heat exchanger; and provide an alert based at least in part on the determination that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature and on the amount of the increase being greater than a stakeholder-set threshold, wherein, to determine that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by the amount that increases over the period of time, the controller is further configured to: average the actual coolant temperature over time; and determine that the average actual coolant temperature is greater than a predicted average coolant temperature by the threshold.
2. The machine of claim 1, wherein the controller is configured to determine the predicted coolant temperature based further on one or more of: a speed of the power source, a torque of the power source, a speed of a fan of the cooling system, or an altitude of the machine.
3. The machine of claim 1, wherein the model for the heat exchanger is a physics-based model of the heat exchanger, the physics-based model being based on performance data for the heat exchanger.
4. The machine of claim 1, wherein, to determine that a difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperature is greater than the threshold, the controller is configured to determine that a number of instances in which the difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperatures is greater than the threshold.
5. The machine of claim 4, wherein, to determine that a difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperature is greater than the threshold, the controller is configured to determine that the number of instances increases with time.
6. The machine of claim 1, wherein providing an alert includes one or more of: activating a diagnostic light in a cabin of the machine and sending an electronic notification to an owner, operator, or fleet manager of the machine.
7. A method for monitoring performance of a heat exchanger of a cooling system of a machine, the machine having a power source, the method comprising: circulating, by the cooling system, coolant between the power source and the heat exchanger; sensing, using a first sensor, an ambient temperature; sensing, using a second sensor, an actual temperature of the coolant; and by a controller associated with the cooling system: determining, based on the ambient temperature and on a model for the heat exchanger, a predicted coolant temperature; comparing, over a period of time, the predicted coolant temperature to the actual coolant temperature; determining, based on the comparison, that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by an amount that increases over the period of time, the increase corresponding to a degradation of performance of the heat exchanger; and providing an alert based at least in part on the determination that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature and on the amount of the increase being greater than a stakeholder-set threshold, wherein determining that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by the amount that increases over the period of time includes: averaging the actual coolant temperature over time; and determining that the average actual coolant temperature is greater than a predicted average coolant temperature by the threshold.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein determining the predicted coolant temperature includes determining the predicted coolant temperature based on one or more of: a speed of the power source, a torque of the power source, a speed of a fan of the cooling system, or an altitude of the machine.
9. The method of claim 7, wherein the model for the heat exchanger is a physics-based model of the heat exchanger, the physics-based model being based on performance data for the heat exchanger.
10. The method of claim 7, wherein determining that a difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperature is greater than the threshold includes determining that a number of instances in which the difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperatures is greater than the threshold.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein determining that a difference between the predicted coolant temperature and the actual coolant temperature is greater than the threshold includes determining that the number of instances increases with time.
12. The method of claim 7, wherein providing an alert includes one or more of: activating a diagnostic light in a cabin of the machine, sending an electronic notification to an owner of the machine, or sending an electronic notification to a fleet manager.
13. A cooling system for a machine, the cooling system circulating coolant between a power source of the machine and a heat exchanger of the cooling system, the cooling system comprising: a first sensor configured to sense an ambient temperature and provide a first signal indicative of the ambient temperature; a second sensor configured to sense an actual temperature of the coolant and to provide a second signal indicative of the actual coolant temperature; and a controller in communication with the first and second sensors to receive the first and second signals, the controller being configured to: determine, based on the ambient temperature and on a model for the heat exchanger, a predicted coolant temperature; compare, over a period of time, the predicted coolant temperature to the actual coolant temperature is greater than a threshold; and determine, based on the comparison, that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by an amount that increases over the period of time, the increase corresponding to a degradation of performance of the heat exchanger; and provide an alert based at least in part on the determination that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature and on the amount of the increase being greater than a stakeholder-set threshold, wherein, to determine that the actual coolant temperature is greater than the predicted coolant temperature by the amount that increases over the period of time, the controller is further configured to: average the actual coolant temperature over time; and determine that the average actual coolant temperature is greater than a predicted average coolant temperature by the threshold.
14. The cooling system of claim 13, wherein the controller is configured to determine the predicted coolant temperature based further on one or more of: a speed of the power source, a torque of the power source, a speed of a fan of the cooling system, or an altitude of the machine.
15. The machine of claim 1, wherein the alert comprises an electronic message sent to the stakeholder, the stakeholder being associated with the machine.
16. The cooling system of claim 13, wherein the alert comprises an electronic message sent to the stakeholder, the stakeholder being associated with the machine.
</claims>
</document>
