<document>

<filing_date>
2019-02-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-02-09
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B23C3/36,G05B19/18,G05B19/19,G05B19/4093,G05B19/4097,G06T17/10,G06T19/20
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DASSAULT SYSTEMES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CETRE, SEBASTIEN
PYZAK, DANIEL
HEBRARD, PASCAL
Coz, Dominique
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61899135
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Designing a part manufacturable by milling operations
</title>

<abstract>
The embodiments relate to a method for designing a part manufacturable by milling operations. The method comprises providing a topologically optimized 3D modeled part, computing a bounding volume encompassing the topologically optimized 3D modeled part, defining a milling direction of a milling tool, computing a silhouette of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part according to the milling direction, the silhouette comprising a contour, and computing a new contour based on a parameter of the milling tool.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for designing a part manufacturable by milling operations comprising: obtaining a topologically optimized three-dimensional (3D) modeled part; computing a bounding volume encompassing the topologically optimized 3D modeled part; defining a milling direction of a milling tool; computing a silhouette of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part according to the milling direction, the silhouette comprising a contour; and computing a new contour based on a parameter of the milling tool.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein computing the silhouette further comprises: identifying on the silhouette one or more contours, wherein a contour separates a surface representing a volume occupied by the topologically optimized 3D modeled part and a surface representing an empty volume in the topologically optimized 3D modeled part.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the parameter of the milling tool is a diameter of the milling tool.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 3, wherein computing the silhouette further comprises: identifying on the silhouette one or more contours, wherein a contour separates a surface representing a volume occupied by the topologically optimized 3D modeled part and a surface representing an empty volume in the topologically optimized 3D modeled part, and wherein computing a new contour comprises: computing the set of positions of a circle with a diameter equal to that of the milling tool, the circle being only on the surface of the contour representing an empty volume, for which there is at least one contact point between the circle and the contour and for which no point of the circle is outside the contour.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein computing a new contour further comprises: determining in the set of positions, one or more positions of the circle corresponding to an uninterrupted displacement of the circle along the contour; with the set of contacts between the contour and the circle in each of the one or more positions determined in the set of positions, computing one or more lines.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein computing a new contour further comprises: identifying the endpoints of the computed one or more lines; and connecting two endpoints with an arc of the circle in contact with the two endpoints, the circle being in one of the one or more positions determined in the set of positions.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein computing a new contour further comprises: computing a polyline following the contour, the polyline being at a maximum distance from the contour determined from a user input and, the polyline being in the surface representing an empty volume; and rounding the convex angles of the segments of the polyline with a curvature equal to that of the circle with a diameter equal to that of the milling tool.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein defining a milling direction of a milling tool comprises: obtaining a design space from which the topologically optimized 3D object is computed; and identifying on the design space a direction involved by a design intent, the milling direction being the identified direction involved by a design intent.
9. The computer implemented method of claim 2, wherein identifying on the silhouette one or more contours comprises: performing a tessellation of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part, a tile size being limited by the parameter of the milling tool; projecting the points of the tessellated topologically optimized 3D modeled part on a grid of cells on a plane along the milling direction of the milling tool, a grid cell size being limited by the parameter of the milling tool; and identifying a first group of cells of the grid, the first group of cells each having at least one projected point and having as a neighbor at least one cell with no projected points, the projected points belonging to the cells of the first group defining one or more contours.
10. The computer implemented method of claim 9, wherein determining whether the surface delimited by one or more contours represents a volume occupied by the topologically optimized 3D modeled part or a represents an empty volume comprises: identifying a second group of cells of the grid, the second group of cells each having at least one projected point and having neighbor cells with at least one projected point each, at least one of the neighbor cells belonging to the first group of cells; determining each surface delimited by one or more contours and comprising at least one cell of the second group as a surface representing a volume occupied by the topologically optimized 3D modeled part; and determining each surface delimited by one or more contours and comprising no cell of the second group as a surface representing an empty volume.
11. The computer implemented method of claim 1, wherein the bounding volume encompassing the topologically optimized 3D modeled part is oriented using one of: a user selection of the orientation of the bounding volume, an axis system of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part, a global axis system of a 3D scene wherein the topologically optimized 3D modeled part is located, or a physical property of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part computed from an inertia matrix of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: computing a 3D volume from the silhouette having the new contour.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 12, comprising: selecting one or more further milling directions; for each further milling direction, computing a silhouette with a respective new contour; and computing the 3D volume from each silhouette computed for each further milling direction.
14. A non-transitory computer readable medium having stored thereon a computer program comprising instructions to perform the method of claim 1.
15. A system comprising: a processor coupled to a memory storing a computer program that when executed by the processor causes the processor to be configured to: obtain a topologically optimized three-dimensional (3D) modeled part, compute a bounding volume encompassing the topologically optimized 3D modeled part, define a milling direction of a milling tool, compute a silhouette of the topologically optimized 3D modeled part according to the milling direction, the silhouette comprising a contour, and compute a new contour based on a parameter of the milling tool.
16. A method for manufacturing a part by milling operations, comprising: obtaining, by a milling machine, a designed part designed according to the method of claim 1; and manufacturing, by the milling machine, the designed part.
</claims>
</document>
