<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-12-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06N20/00,H04L1/08,H04W24/02,H04W24/08,H04W28/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
AT&T MOBILITY II
</assignee>

<inventors>
MEREDITH, SHELDON
MEREDITH, ZACHARY
KIERNAN, THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70971267
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Machine learning between radio loading and user experience
</title>

<abstract>
A resource upgrade predictor can be operable to receive, from a first network node device, traffic information. Based on the traffic information, the resource upgrade predictor can obtain network utilization data related to other network node devices having a similar interference characteristic (e.g., signal-to-noise ratio) to the first network node device. The resource upgrade predictor can use this network utilization data to determine a demand (e.g., demand level, demand point) at which at least a defined value related to a transmission link capacity associated with transmissions between the first network node device and the user equipment, is attained (e.g., a percentage of physical resource block loading). The resource upgrade predictor can also obtain projected demand data associated with a geographic area serviced by the first network node device, and determine, based upon the demand and the projected demand data, a time at which a network resource upgrade related to the first network node device, is to be performed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a first network node device, traffic information comprising: a first number of transmitted data packets between a user equipment and the first network node device, wherein the first number of transmitted packets is reflective of a first demand associated with the user equipment serviced by the first network node device, and a second number of re-transmitted data packets comprising a re-transmission of at least one of the transmitted data packets between the user equipment and the first network node device; based on the traffic information, obtaining network utilization data related to a second network node device having a similar interference characteristic to the first network node device; based on the network utilization data, determining demand data representative of a second demand at which at least a defined value, related to a transmission link capacity associated with transmissions between the first network node device and the user equipment, is attained; obtaining projected demand data associated with a geographic area serviced by the first network node device; and determining, based upon the demand data and the projected demand data, a time at which a network resource upgrade, related to the first network node device, is to be performed.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmitted data packets and the re-transmitted data packets are transmitted via a wireless radio link between the first network node device and the user equipment.
3. The device of claim 2, wherein the re-transmitted data packets are re-transmitted due to interference via the wireless radio link.
4. The device of claim 2, wherein the transmission link capacity is reflective of a quantity of physical resource blocks comprising time intervals in which the transmitted data packets and the re-transmitted data packets are to be transmitted via the wireless radio link.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein information regarding the transmitted data packets is received via a protocol comprising a layer two internet protocol.
6. The device of claim 1, wherein information regarding the re-transmitted data packets is received via a protocol comprising a layer three internet protocol.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the projected demand data is based on a number of software applications used by mobile devices associated with the geographic area.
8. The device of claim 7, wherein the projected demand data is based on a type of the software applications used by the mobile devices associated with the geographic area.
9. A method, comprising: receiving, by a first device comprising a processor, traffic information from a first network node device, the traffic information comprising: a first quantity of transmitted data packets between a user equipment and the first network node device, wherein the first quantity of transmitted packets is reflective of a demand associated with the user equipment serviced by the first network node device, and a second quantity of re-transmitted data packets comprising a re-transmission of at least one of the transmitted data packets between the user equipment and the first network node device; based on the traffic information, obtaining, by the first device, network utilization data related to a second network node device having a similar interference characteristic to the first network node device, using, by the first device, the network utilization data to determine a level of demand at which at least a defined value, related to a transmission link capacity associated with transmissions between the first network node device and the user equipment, is attained; obtaining, by the first device, projected demand data from a second device, wherein the projected demand data is associated with a geographic area serviced by the first network node device; and determining, by the first device, based upon the level of demand and the projected demand data, a time at which a network resource upgrade, related to the first network node device, is to be performed.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the network resource upgrade comprises an augmentation of the first network node device to satisfy a projected demand associated with the projected demand data.
11. The method of claim 9, wherein the network resource upgrade comprises an addition of a remote radio unit device to service a portion of the geographic area.
12. The method of claim 9, wherein the network resource upgrade comprises an addition of a baseband unit device that communicates with a remote radio unit device.
13. The method of claim 9, wherein the transmitted data packets and the retransmitted data packets are transmitted via a wireless radio link between the first network node device and the user equipment.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the re-transmitted data packets are re-transmitted due to interference via the wireless radio link.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein the transmission link capacity is reflective of a number of physical resource blocks comprising time intervals in which the transmitted data packets and re-transmitted data packets are transmitted via the wireless radio link.
16. A non-transitory machine-readable medium comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a first network node device, traffic information comprising: a first quantity of transmitted data packets between a user equipment and the first network node device, wherein the first quantity of transmitted packets is reflective of a first demand associated with the user equipment serviced by the first network node device, and a second quantity of re-transmitted data packets comprising a re-transmission of at least one of the transmitted data packets between the user equipment and the first network node device; based on the traffic information, obtaining network utilization data related to a second network node device having a similar interference characteristic to the first network node device; using the network utilization data, determining a second demand at which at least a defined value, related to a transmission link capacity associated with transmissions between the first network node device and the user equipment, is attained; obtaining, from a computing device, projected demand data associated with a geographic area serviced by the first network node device; and based upon the demand and the projected demand data, determining a time at which a network resource upgrade, related to the first network node device, is to be performed; and transmitting a notification comprising the time.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the transmission link capacity is reflective of the first quantity of the transmitted data packets between the user equipment and the first network node device.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the transmission link capacity reflects the second quantity of the re-transmitted data packets between the user equipment and the first network node device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 16, wherein the network resource upgrade comprises adding a remote radio unit device to service a portion of the geographic area.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable medium of claim 19, wherein the network resource upgrade further comprises adding a baseband unit device that communicates with the remote radio unit device.
</claims>
</document>
