<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-13
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-14
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W30/00,G05D1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
BAIDU USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
HU JIANGTAO
JIANG, YIFEI
LI, DONG
LI, LIYUN
TAO, JIAMING
WANG, JINGAO
YANG, GUANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59772378
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Planning feedback based decision improvement system for autonomous driving vehicle
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, systems and methods are disclosed for a planning-driven framework for an driving vehicle (ADV) driving decision system. Driving decisions are classified into at least seven categories, including: conservative decision, aggressive decision, conservative parameters, aggressive parameters, early decision, late decision, and non-decision problem. Using the outputs of an ADV decision planning module, an ADV driving decision problem is identified, categorized, and diagnosed. A local driving decision improvement can be determined and executed in a short time frame on the ADV. For a long term solution, if needed, the driving decision problem can be uploaded to an analytics server. The driving decision problems from a large plurality of ADVs can be aggregated and analyzed for improving the ADV decisions system for all ADVs.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method for operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the method comprising: generating a first driving decision based on a first state of the ADV and a second state of an object external to the ADV, wherein each of the first state and the second state includes a speed, a location, and a direction of the ADV and the object respectively; receiving planning feedback on the first driving decision, the planning feedback based on the first driving decision, parameters of the first driving decision, the first state, and the second state, wherein the planning feedback is used to classify a problem with the first driving decision into one of a plurality of driving decision problem categories through supervised learning; logging the one of the plurality of driving decision problem categories corresponding to the first driving decision problem into logging information, wherein the logging information is combined with other logging information from other ADVs and used to improve a category of the plurality of driving decision problem categories; and in response to the planning feedback, utilizing the driving decision problem category to modify a first decision parameter associated with the first driving decision or changing the first driving decision to a second driving decision, and executing either the first driving decision with the modified first decision parameter or executing the second driving decision.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining the first state of the ADV and logging the first state of the ADV into a driving log; and determining one or more states of one or more objects external to the ADV and logging the states of the objects into a perception log, including logging the second state, wherein the first driving decision is generated based on the perception log and the driving log.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of driving decision problem categories includes: a conservative driving decision; an aggressive driving decision; a driving decision having one or more conservative parameters; a driving decision having one or more aggressive parameters; an early driving decision; a late driving decision; or a driving decision having a non-decision problem.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising executing the first driving decision, if no problem is detected with the first decision.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first driving decision comprises one of: overtaking an object in the one or more objects, yielding to the object in the one or more objects, stopping the ADV within a predetermined distance of an object in the one or more objects, or ignoring the object in the one or more objects.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein modifying a first parameter of the first driving decision comprises one of: modifying a speed at which the ADV overtakes the object; modifying a speed at which the ADV slows to yield to the object; modifying the predetermined distance at which the ADV stops; modifying a position of the ADV within a driving lane occupied by the ADV; or modifying an ADV driving path selected to overtake the object.
7. The method of claim 5 wherein changing the first decision to the second decision comprises one of: changing an overtake decision to a yield or a stop decision; changing a yield decision to a stop decision or an overtake decision; changing an ignore decision to an overtake, yield, or stop decision.
8. The method of claim 1 wherein the planning feedback comprises at least one of: an indication ADV speed is too fast or too slow with respect to a location or speed of the object and a location or speed of the ADV; an indication that the ADV cannot execute the first decision; an indication that a steering input required to implement the first decision is excessive; or an indication that decision is unsafe based on one or more road conditions, including weather, amount of light, or lane position of the ADV.
9. A non-transitory machine-readable medium having instructions stored therein, which when executed by a processor, cause the processor to perform operations of operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the operations comprising: generating a first driving decision based on a first state of the ADV and a second state of an object external to the ADV, wherein each of the first state and the second state includes a speed, a location, and a direction of the ADV and the object respectively; receiving planning feedback on the first driving decision, the planning feedback based on the first driving decision, parameters of the first driving decision, the first state, and the second state, wherein the planning feedback is used to classify a problem with the first driving decision into one of a plurality of driving decision problem categories through supervised learning; logging the one of the plurality of driving decision problem categories corresponding to the first driving decision problem into logging information, wherein the logging information is combined with other logging information from other ADVs and used to improve a category of the plurality of driving decision problem categories, and in response to the planning feedback, utilizing the driving decision problem category to modify a first decision parameter associated with the first driving decision or changing the first driving decision to a second driving decision, and executing either the first driving decision with the modified first decision parameter or executing the second driving decision.
10. The medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise: determining the first state of the ADV and logging the first state of the ADV into a driving log; and determining one or more states of one or more objects external to the ADV and logging the states of the objects into a perception log, including logging the second state, wherein the first driving decision is generated based on the perception log and the driving log.
11. The medium of claim 10, wherein the plurality of driving decision problem categories includes: a conservative driving decision; an aggressive driving decision; a driving decision having one or more conservative parameters; a driving decision having one or more aggressive parameters; an early driving decision; a late driving decision; or a driving decision having a non-decision problem.
12. The medium of claim 9, further comprising executing the first driving decision, if no problem is detected with the first decision.
13. The medium of claim 9, wherein the first driving decision comprises one of: overtaking an object in the one or more objects, yielding to the object in the one or more objects, stopping the ADV within a predetermined distance of an object in the one or more objects, or ignoring the object in the one or more objects.
14. The medium of claim 13, wherein modifying a first parameter of the first driving decision comprises one of: modifying a speed at which the ADV overtakes the object; modifying a speed at which the ADV slows to yield to the object; modifying the predetermined distance at which the ADV stops; modifying a position of the ADV within a driving lane occupied by the ADV; or modifying an ADV driving path selected to overtake the object.
15. The medium of claim 13 wherein changing the first decision to the second decision comprises one of: changing an overtake decision to a yield or a stop decision; changing a yield decision to a stop decision or an overtake decision; changing an ignore decision to an overtake, yield, or stop decision.
16. The medium of claim 9 wherein the planning feedback comprises at least one of: an indication ADV speed is too fast or too slow with respect to a location or speed of the object and a location or speed of the ADV; an indication that the ADV cannot execute the first decision; an indication that a steering input required to implement the first decision is excessive; or an indication that decision is unsafe based on one or more road conditions, including weather, amount of light, or lane position of the ADV.
17. A data processing system, comprising: a processor; and a memory coupled to the processor to store instructions, which when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations of operating an autonomous driving vehicle (ADV), the operations including: generating a first driving decision based on a first state of the ADV and a second state of an object external to the ADV, wherein each of the first state and the second state includes a speed, a location, and a direction of the ADV and the object respectively; receiving planning feedback on the first driving decision, the planning feedback based on the first driving decision, parameters of the first driving decision, the first state, and the second state, wherein the planning feedback is used to classify a problem with the first driving decision into one of a plurality of driving decision problem categories through supervised learning; logging the one of the plurality of driving decision problem categories corresponding to the first driving decision problem into logging information, wherein the logging information is combined with other logging information from other ADVs and used to improve a category of the plurality of driving decision problem categories, and in response to the planning feedback, utilizing the driving decision problem category to modify a first decision parameter associated with the first driving decision or changing the first driving decision to a second driving decision, and executing either the first driving decision with the modified first decision parameter or executing the second driving decision.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein the operations further comprise: determining the first state of the ADV and logging the first state of the ADV into a driving log; and determining one or more states of one or more objects external to the ADV and logging the states of the objects into a perception log, including logging the second state, wherein the first driving decision is generated based on the perception log and the driving log.
19. The system of claim 18, wherein the plurality of driving decision problem categories includes: a conservative driving decision; an aggressive driving decision; a driving decision having one or more conservative parameters; a driving decision having one or more aggressive parameters; an early driving decision; a late driving decision; or a driving decision having a non-decision problem.
20. The system of claim 17, further comprising executing the first driving decision, if no problem is detected with the first decision.
21. The system of claim 17, wherein the first driving decision comprises one of: overtaking an object in the one or more objects, yielding to the object in the one or more objects, stopping the ADV within a predetermined distance of an object in the one or more objects, or ignoring the object in the one or more objects.
22. The system of claim 21, wherein modifying a first parameter of the first driving decision comprises one of: modifying a speed at which the ADV overtakes the object; modifying a speed at which the ADV slows to yield to the object; modifying the predetermined distance at which the ADV stops; modifying a position of the ADV within a driving lane occupied by the ADV; or modifying an ADV driving path selected to overtake the object.
23. The system of claim 21 wherein changing the first decision to the second decision comprises one of: changing an overtake decision to a yield or a stop decision; changing a yield decision to a stop decision or an overtake decision; changing an ignore decision to an overtake, yield, or stop decision.
24. The system of claim 17 wherein the planning feedback comprises at least one of: an indication ADV speed is too fast or too slow with respect to a location or speed of the object and a location or speed of the ADV; an indication that the ADV cannot execute the first decision; an indication that a steering input required to implement the first decision is excessive; or an indication that decision is unsafe based on one or more road conditions, including weather, amount of light, or lane position of the ADV.
</claims>
</document>
