<document>

<filing_date>
2016-08-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-08-12
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/20,G06K9/40,G06K9/46,G06T7/254
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WEIZMANN INSTITUTE OF SCIENCE
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAL-YAM, AVISHAY
OFEK, ERAN
ZACKAY, BARAK
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
57984217
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detection of point sources with variable emission intensity in sequences of images with different point spread functions
</title>

<abstract>
A System and a method for processing at least two M-dimensional data-measurements (DMs) of a physical-property for detecting one or more new-objects and/or a transition of one or more known-objects, in complex constant-background DMs, using at least one processor and at least one memory element, the method comprising: generating a filtered-new-DM by match-filtering a new-DM, respective to impulse response of a reference-DM; generating a filtered-reference-DM by match-filtering the reference-DM, respective to impulse response of the new-DM; generating an M-dimensional object-indicator (OI) by subtracting the filtered-reference-DM from the filtered-new-DM, or vice versa; and generating an M-dimensional data score (DS) from the M-dimensional OI, where each of the scores is a probe for existence of an object at a specific M-dimensional location.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for processing at least two M-dimensional data-measurements (DMs) of a physical-property for detecting one or more new-objects and/or a transition of one or more known-objects, in complex constant-background DMs, using at least one processor and at least one memory element, the method comprising: generating a filtered-new-DM by match-filtering a new-DM, respective to impulse response of a reference-DM; generating a filtered-reference-DM by match-filtering the reference-DM, respective to impulse response of the new-DM; generating an M-dimensional object-indicator (OI) by subtracting the filtered-reference-DM from the filtered-new-DM, or vice versa; and generating an M-dimensional data score (DS) from the M-dimensional OI, where each of the scores is a probe for existence of an object, at a specific M-dimensional location; wherein, the generating of the DS further comprises multiplying each frequency, of the OI or of the normalized-OI by its conjugated frequency-response divided by the frequency's noise-variance; thereby each frequency of the DS has a frequency-response which is equal to its noise-variance.
2. The method according to claim 1, wherein the generating of the DS further comprises normalizing spatial or temporal frequencies of the physical property within the OI, wherein each of the frequencies is normalized by standard deviation (STD) of its own noise; thereby resolution components of the normalized-OI are having physical-property noise of equal variance and further wherein the physical-property noise is uncorrelated between the resolution components.
3. The method according to claim 1, further comprises measuring the physical-property at the normalized-OI and/or at the DS.
4. The method according to claim 1, further comprises detecting at least one new object and/or a transition for at least one known-object at the normalized-OI and/or at the DS.
5. The method according to claim 4, wherein the detecting is responsive to positive and/or negative predetermined thresholds for the physical property.
6. The method according to claim 1, further comprises generating the reference-DM by accumulating plurality of match-filtered original-reference-DMs and/or generating the new-DM by accumulating plurality of match-filtered original-new-DMs, wherein the filtering is respective to each of their impulse responses.
7. The method according to claim 6, wherein the accumulating further comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of: combining, coadding, and superpositioning.
8. The method according to claim 4, wherein the reference-DM and the new-DM: a. cover same field of measuring, b. are measured by same measuring device, and c. are having different PSF—due to deformation of the object between their measurements.
9. The method according to claim 4, wherein at least one of the following holds true: all of the DMs are of same field of measuring; each of the DMs is acquired at a single timestamp; M is a positive integer; the reference-DM and the new-DM, are each measured by a different measuring device; the reference-DM and the new-DM are each measuring a different physical property; the reference-DM and the new-DM cover same field of measuring, measured simultaneously or at different time steps, wherein each is measured at different a wavelength; the method further comprises convolving the normalized-OI with a movement detection kernel; the method further comprises normalizing the DS using a registration noise correction; the method further comprises normalizing the DS using a source noise correction; the physical-property is flux, the DMs are images, and the resolution components are pixels; the physical-property is voltage and the DMs are radio signals; the physical-property is opacity and the DMs are tomographic measurements.
10. A computer system having at least one processor and at least one memory element, the system configured to process at least two M-dimensional data-measurements (DMs) of a physical-property for detecting one or more new-objects and/or a transition of one or more known-objects, in complex constant-background DMs, the system comprising: a filtering-module, stored in the memory, configured: to generate a filtered-new-DM by match-filtering a new-DM, respective to impulse response of a reference-DM; and to generate a filtered-reference-DM by match-filtering the reference-DM, respective to impulse response of the new-DM; a processing-module, stored in the memory, configured to generate an M-dimensional object-indicator (OI) by subtracting the filtered-reference-DM from the filtered-new-DM, or vice versa; and to generate an M-dimensional data score (DS) from the NI-dimensional OI, where each of the scores is a probe for existence of an object at a specific M-dimensional location; wherein the processing-module further configured to multiply each frequency, of the OI or of the normalized-OI, by its conjugated frequency-response divided by the frequency's noise-variance; thereby each frequency of the DS has a frequency-response which is equal to its noise-variance.
11. The system according to claim 10, wherein the processing-module further configured to generate an NI-dimensional normalized-OI, by normalizing spatial or temporal frequencies of the physical property within the OI, wherein each of the frequencies is normalized by standard deviation (STD) of its own noise; thereby resolution components of the normalized-OI are having physical-property noise of equal variance and further wherein the physical-property noise is uncorrelated between the resolution components.
12. The system according to claim 10, further comprises a measuring-module, stored in the memory, configured to measure the physical-property at the normalized-OI and/or at the DS.
13. The system according to claim 10, further comprises a detecting-module, stored in the memory, configured to detect at least one new object and/or a transition for at least one known-object at the normalized-OI and/or at the DS.
14. The system according to claim 13, wherein the detecting is responsive to positive and/or negative predetermined thresholds for the physical property.
15. The system according to claim 10, further comprises an accumulating-module, stored in the memory, configured to generate the reference-DM by accumulating plurality of match-filtered original-reference-DMs and/or to generate the new-DM by accumulating plurality of match-filtered original-new-DMs, wherein the match-filtering is respective to each of their impulse responses.
16. The system according to claim 15, wherein the accumulating further comprises at least one selected from the group consisting of: combining, coadding, and superpositioning.
17. A method for processing at least two M-dimensional data-measurements (DMs), using at least one processor and at least one memory element, the method comprising: generating a filtered-first-DM by match-filtering a first-DM, respective to impulse response of a second-DM; generating a filtered-second-DM by match-filtering the second-IBM, respective to impulse response of the first-DM; generating an M-dimensional third-DM by subtracting the filtered-second-DM from the filtered-first-DM, or vice versa; and generating an M-dimensional normalized-DM by normalizing spatial or temporal frequencies of the physical property within the third-DM, wherein each of the frequencies is normalized by standard deviation (STD) of its own noise; thereby resolution components of the normalized-DM are having physical-property noise of equal variance and further wherein the physical-property noise is uncorrelated between the resolution components; and wherein the method further comprises generating an M-dimensional data score (DS), where each of the scores is a probe for existence of an object at a specific M-dimensional location; the DS generated by multiplying each frequency, of the normalized-DM, by its conjugated frequency-response divided by the frequency's noise-variance; thereby each frequency of the DS has a frequency-response which is equal to its noise-variance.
</claims>
</document>
