<document>

<filing_date>
2015-06-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-04-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
A61B5/00,A61B5/021,A61B5/024
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BASU SUMIT
SMITH, GREGORY R.
MORRIS, DANIEL
SAPONAS, T. SCOTT
WANDER, JEREMIAH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55755737
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Wearable pulse sensing device signal quality estimation
</title>

<abstract>
A first data window of a pulse waveform signal comprising a first number of samples is analyzed to determine a level of confidence that a pulse sensing device is placed correctly. If an initial level of confidence is met, the user is given positive feedback, and a second data window of a pulse waveform signal comprising a second, larger number of samples is analyzed. If an increased level of confidence is met, the user is given increased positive feedback. If a level of confidence is not met, the user is given negative feedback. If a final level of confidence is met, the user is given feedback that the pulse sensing device is placed correctly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for a wearable cardiovascular monitoring device, comprising: operating a pulse sensing device adjacent to an artery of a user wearing the wearable cardiovascular monitoring device; receiving a pulse waveform signal from the pulse sensing device; using a first classifier, computer-analyzing a first data window of the pulse waveform signal, comprising a first number of samples; responsive to computer-analysis of the first data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, providing user feedback, via a feedback machine, indicating an initial level of confidence that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed; using a second classifier, computer-analyzing a second data window of the pulse waveform signal, comprising a second number of samples larger than the first number of samples; and responsive to computer-analysis of the second data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, providing user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating an increased level of confidence that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: using a final classifier, computer-analyzing a final data window of the pulse waveform signal, having a final number of samples larger than the second number of samples; and responsive to computer-analysis of the final data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, providing user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed at a target sensing location.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: responsive to computer-analysis of the final data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, computer-calculating a cardiovascular parameter based on the pulse waveform signal.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein the samples comprised in the second data window comprise all of the samples comprised in the first data window, and wherein the samples comprised in the final data window comprise all of the samples comprised in the second data window.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein the second classifier has a lower false-positive rate than the first classifier, and wherein the final classifier has a lower false-positive rate than the second classifier.
6. The method of claim 1, further comprising: responsive to computer-analysis of the first, second, or final data window not indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, providing user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating incorrect pulse sensing device placement.
7. The method of claim 6, further comprising: responsive to computer-analysis of the first, second, or final data window not indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, computer-analyzing with the first classifier a new data window of the pulse waveform signal, comprising the first number of samples.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: computer-determining whether the pulse waveform signal comprises an initial signal characteristic; responsive to the pulse waveform signal comprising the initial signal characteristic, providing a new data window to the first classifier comprising the first number of samples of the pulse waveform signal; and responsive to the pulse waveform signal not comprising the initial signal characteristic, providing user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating that the pulse sensing device needs to be relocated towards a target sensing location.
9. A method for a wearable cardiovascular monitoring device, comprising: operating a pulse sensing device adjacent to an artery of a user wearing the wearable cardiovascular monitoring device; receiving a pulse waveform signal from the pulse sensing device; computer-processing a window of the pulse waveform signal including n samples; computer-quantizing each of the n samples into an integer ranging from 1 to r; establishing a transition matrix for the window, the transition matrix including r rows and r columns, wherein each cell of the transition matrix indicates a frequency within the window that a sample m, having a quantized row value of r, is followed by a sample m+1 having a quantized column value of r; and computer-determining a signal quality index of the window based on the transition matrix.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the n samples are downsampled from a raw pulse waveform signal.
11. The method of claim 10, wherein the raw pulse waveform signal is bandpass filtered, but not motion filtered prior to downsampling.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the raw pulse waveform signal is output by an optical pulse sensing device.
13. The method of claim 10, wherein the raw pulse waveform signal is output by an arterial tonometer.
14. The method of claim 9, wherein the n samples are locally normalized prior to being quantized.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the window is excluded from downstream cardiovascular parameter calculations requiring a signal quality index greater than the computer-determined signal quality index for the window.
16. The method of claim 9, wherein the window is included in downstream cardiovascular parameter calculations requiring a signal quality index lower than the computer-determined signal quality index for the window.
17. A wearable cardiovascular monitoring device, comprising: a pulse sensing device; a feedback machine; and a pulse sensing device control subsystem, configured to: receive a pulse waveform signal from the pulse sensing device; using a first classifier, computer-analyze a first data window of the pulse waveform signal, the first data window comprising a first number of samples; responsive to computer-analysis of the first data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, provide user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating an initial level of confidence that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed; using a second classifier having a lower false-positive rate than the first classifier, computer-analyze a second data window of the pulse waveform signal, the second data window comprising a second number of samples, larger than the first number of samples; and responsive to computer-analysis of the second data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, provide user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating an increased level of confidence that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed.
18. The wearable cardiovascular monitoring device of claim 17, wherein the pulse sensing device control subsystem is further configured to: using a final classifier having a lower false-positive rate than the second classifier, computer-analyze a final data window of the pulse waveform signal, having a final number of samples larger than the second number of samples; responsive to computer-analysis of the final data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, provide user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating that the pulse sensing device is correctly placed; and responsive to computer-analysis of the final data window indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, computer-calculate a cardiovascular parameter based on the pulse waveform signal.
19. The wearable cardiovascular monitoring device of claim 18, wherein the samples comprised in the second data window comprise all of the samples in the first data window, and wherein the samples comprised in the final data window include all of the samples comprised in the second data window.
20. The wearable cardiovascular monitoring device of claim 18, wherein the pulse sensing device control subsystem is further configured to: responsive to computer-analysis of the first, second, or final data window not indicating correct pulse sensing device placement, provide user feedback, via the feedback machine, indicating incorrect pulse sensing device placement; and responsive to computer-analysis of the first, second, or final data window indicating incorrect pulse sensing device placement, computer-analyze with the first classifier a new data window of the pulse waveform signal, the new data window comprising the first number of samples.
</claims>
</document>
