<document>

<filing_date>
2017-09-27
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-09-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K19/06,G06K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
3M INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY (MINNESOTA MINING AND MANUFACTURING INNOVATIVE PROPERTIES COMPANY)
</assignee>

<inventors>
HOWARD, JAMES W.
JOHNSON, JUSTIN M.
PACHAURI, DEEPTI
SNYDER, JAMES B.
SOMASUNDARAM, GURUPRASAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
60081301
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Occlusion-resilient optical codes for machine-read articles
</title>

<abstract>
In some examples, an article includes a substrate and a plurality of optical element sets embodied on the substrate, wherein each optical element set includes a plurality of optical elements, wherein each respective optical element represents an encoded value in a set of encoded values, wherein the set of encoded values are differentiable based on visual differentiability of the respective optical elements, wherein each respective optical element set represents at least a portion of a message or error correction data to decode the message if one or more of the plurality of optical element sets are visually occluded, and wherein the optical element sets for the message and error correction data are spatially configured at the physical surface in a matrix such that the message is decodable from the substrate without optical elements positioned within at least one complete edge of the matrix that is visually occluded.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An article comprising: a substrate that includes a physical surface; an optical code embodied on the physical surface and comprising a top edge, a bottom edge opposite the top edge, a left edge coupling the top edge and the bottom edge, a right edge opposite the left edge and coupling the top edge and the bottom edge, and a plurality of optical elements, and a quiet zone surrounding the optical code to visually separate the optical code from another region of the physical surface, wherein a first subset of the optical elements form a clocking pattern disposed along a top edge of the optical code, wherein a second subset of the optical elements form a finder code, wherein the finder code includes a plurality of portions, wherein each portion of the plurality of portions is disposed along a respective corner of the optical code, wherein the portion of the finder code disposed along each respective corner of the optical code includes at least two optical elements, wherein a third subset of the optical elements form a message, wherein a fourth subset of the optical elements form error correction data, wherein a fifth subset of the optical elements form repetition bits, wherein each optical element of the fifth subset of elements corresponds to a respective optical element of the subset of optical elements that form the message or the error correction data, and wherein each optical element of the fifth subset of elements is disposed within four optical elements from a particular edge of the optical code that is opposite an edge of the optical code that includes the corresponding optical element of the message or the error correction data, wherein each respective optical element of the third subset of optical elements and the fourth subset of optical elements represents an encoded bit in a set of encoded bits, wherein the set of encoded bits are differentiable based on visual differentiability of the respective optical elements, and wherein the third subset of optical elements forming the message and the fourth subset of optical elements forming the error correction data are spatially configured in a matrix such that the message is decodable from the substrate without optical elements positioned within at least one complete edge of the matrix that is visually occluded.
2. The article of claim 1, wherein the at least one complete edge comprises a one-dimensional array from the lowest ordered index to the highest-ordered index of at least a horizontal or a vertical dimension of the matrix.
3. The article of claim 1, wherein the plurality of optical element sets are not included in a QR code.
4. The article of claim 1, wherein a parent optical element set included in the third subset of optical elements or the fourth subset of optical elements includes at least one parent optical element, wherein the parent optical element further includes a child optical element set, the child optical element set including a respective set of child optical elements.
5. The article of claim 4, wherein each parent optical element of the parent optical element set represents a respective encoded bit, wherein the encoded bit represented by each respective parent optical element is based on an cumulative visual appearance of a corresponding child optical element set and is decodable at a distance between an image capture device and the article that is greater than or equal to a threshold distance, and wherein each child optical element of the child optical element set represents a respective encoded bit, wherein the encoded bit represented by each respective child optical elements in the child optical element set is not decodable at the distance between the image capture device and the article.
6. The article of claim 5, wherein the distance is a first distance, wherein the encoded bits represented by each respective child optical elements in the child optical element set are decodable at a second distance between the image capture device and the article, the second distance between less than the first distance.
7. The article of claim 5, wherein the threshold distance is a distance at which a resolution of an image captured by the image capture device does not visually differentiate, above a differentiability threshold, between one or more child optical elements of the child optical element set that are visually different.
8. The article of claim 1, wherein the set of encoded bits include N-number of encoded bits, wherein an optical element set includes M-number of optical elements, wherein an optical element set represents a combination of encoded bits of a set of NM combinations of encoded bits based at least in part on respective visual gradient values assigned to respective optical elements of the optical element set, wherein the respective gradient values are each included in a set of M-number of visually differentiable gradient values.
9. The article of claim 1, wherein the error correction data is based on an application of an error correction function to the message.
10. The article of claim 1, wherein each optical element of a first optical element set that includes a first plurality of optical elements is a first size, wherein each optical element of a second optical element set that includes a second plurality of optical element is a second size smaller than the first size, and wherein the first and second optical element sets do not overlap.
11. The article of claim 10, wherein the first optical element set represents context information that is descriptive of the article, and wherein the second optical element set represents content information that is descriptive of the context information.
12. The article of claim 1, wherein the finder code enables a machine vision system to localize the optical code within an image.
13. The article of claim 1, wherein the finder code includes a plurality of optical elements arranged symmetrically about a center axis of the matrix.
14. The article of claim 1, wherein the optical code is orientation independent.
15. The article of claim 1, wherein: the finder code is a dark color and the quiet zone is a light color, or the finder code is the light color and the quiet zone is a dark color.
16. The article of claim 1, wherein the article includes human readable data.
17. The article of claim 1, wherein the article comprises at least one of a traffic sign, a license plate, a garment, or a decal.
18. A method comprising: receiving, by a computing device an image of an article having a substrate that includes a physical surface, wherein the image includes a representation of an optical code disposed on the article and a quiet zone surrounding the optical code to visually separate the optical code from another region of the physical surface, wherein the optical code includes: a top edge, a bottom edge opposite the top edge, a left edge coupling the top edge and the bottom edge, a right edge opposite the left edge and coupling the top edge and the bottom edge, and a plurality of optical elements, wherein a first subset of the optical elements form a clocking pattern disposed along a top edge of the optical code, wherein a second subset of the optical elements form a finder code, wherein the finder code includes a plurality of portions, wherein each portion of the plurality of portions is disposed along a respective corner of the optical code, wherein the portion of the finder code disposed along each respective corner of the optical code includes at least two optical elements, wherein a third subset of the optical elements form a message, wherein a fourth subset of the optical elements form error correction data, wherein a fifth subset of the optical elements form repetition bits, wherein each optical element of the fifth subset of elements corresponds to a respective optical element of the subset of optical elements that form the message or the error correction data, and wherein each optical element of the fifth subset of elements is disposed within four optical elements from a particular edge of the optical code that is opposite an edge of the optical code that includes the corresponding optical element of the message or the error correction data, wherein each respective optical element of the third subset of optical elements and the fourth subset of optical elements represents an encoded bit in a set of encoded bits, wherein the set of encoded bits are differentiable based on visual differentiability of the respective optical elements, wherein the third subset of optical elements forming the message and the fourth subset of optical elements forming the error correction data are spatially configured in a matrix such that the message is decodable from the substrate without optical elements positioned within at least one complete edge of the matrix that is visually occluded, and decoding, by the computing device, the message based at least in part on error correction data from the image in which at least one complete edge of the matrix that is visually occluded.
19. The method of claim 18, wherein the at least one complete edge comprises a one-dimensional array from the lowest ordered index to the highest-ordered index of at least a horizontal or a vertical dimension of the matrix.
20. The method of claim 18, wherein the plurality of optical element sets are not included in a QR code.
</claims>
</document>
