<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-31
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/042
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
KYUNG HEE UNIVERSITY
UNIVERSITY—INDUSTRY COOPERATION GROUP OF KYUNG HEE UNIVERSITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
KIM, DO HYUN
HONG, CHOONG SEON
ABEDIN, SARDER FAKHRUL
MUNIR MD., SHIRAJUM
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69229645
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method and system for creating energy demand model
</title>

<abstract>
The present disclosure relates to a method for generating an energy demand model by a multi-access edge server, the method including: a step a of receiving a task execution request signal including a bit value from a user; a step b of matching a task to one or more pre-classified groups using the bit value; a step c of extracting a feature of energy consumed to perform the task according to a criterion set differently for each group; a step of performing the steps a to c for one or more task execution request signals received from one or more users during a time period and generating an energy demand pattern for the time period using a feature of energy for one or more tasks performed during the time period; and a step of generating an energy demand model by time using one or more energy demand patterns by time and energy cost by time.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for generating an energy demand model by a multi-access edge controller, the method comprising: a step a of receiving, via an edge server, a task execution request signal, from a user, requesting performance of a task by the edge server, the task execution request signal comprising a bit value; a step b of matching the task to one or more pre-classified groups using the bit value; a step c of extracting a feature of energy consumed to perform the task according to a criterion set differently for each group; a step of performing the steps a to c for one or more task execution request signals received from one or more users during a time period and generating an energy demand pattern for the time period using a feature of energy for one or more tasks performed during the time period; a step of generating an energy demand model by time using one or more energy demand patterns by time and energy cost by time; and a step of controlling, via an edge controller, the edge server to perform the task using one of commonly used energy or alternative energy based on the energy demand model.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the groups comprise a first group comprising a task that cannot be suspended and postponed, a second group comprising a task that cannot be suspended but does not necessarily require real-time processing, and a third group comprising a task that can be suspended and does not require an always-on power supply.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein a total energy consumption for one or more tasks matched to the first group during the time period is calculated using a number of access edge servers and an energy consumption for each task matched to the first group during the time period.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein a total energy consumption for one or more tasks matched to the second group during the time period is calculated using a number of tasks requested to be performed, an energy coefficient corresponding to a capacity of an access edge server, a total required calculation amount for one access edge server during the time period, and a calculation capacity of the access edge server.
5. The method of claim 2, wherein a total energy consumption for one or more tasks matched to the third group during the time period is calculated using a number of access edge servers, an energy consumption for each task matched to the third group during the time period, and a variable having a binary value.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the feature of the energy comprises a task execution start time, a time required to perform a task, a consumption of commonly used energy, and a consumption of alternative energy.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the step of generating the energy demand model comprises a step of normalizing a consumption of commonly used energy and a consumption of alternative energy for the one or more tasks performed during the time period.
8. The method of claim 7, wherein the step of normalizing comprises: a step of setting a minimum value among all energy consumptions for the one or more tasks performed during the time period to 0 and a maximum value to 1; and a step of matching all the energy consumptions to a value between 0 and 1 on the basis of the minimum value and the maximum value, and the energy consumptions are related to the consumption of the commonly used energy or the consumption of the alternative energy.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the energy demand model is generated using a linear data regression analysis model.
10. A system for generating an energy demand model, the system comprising: an edge server coupled to one or more user devices; an edge controller coupled to the edge server, the edge controller further comprising: a receiver configured to receive, via the edge server, a task execution request signal, from a user, requesting performance of a task by the edge server, the task execution request signal comprising a bit value; an extractor configured to match the task to one or more pre-classified groups using the bit value and to extract a feature of energy consumed to perform the task according to a criterion set differently for each group; and a generator configured to generate an energy demand pattern for a time period using a feature of energy for one or more tasks performed during the time period and to generate an energy demand model by time using one or more energy demand patterns by time and energy cost by time, wherein the edge controller is further configured to cause the edge server to perform the task using one of commonly used energy or alternative energy based on the energy demand model.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the extractor comprises a group matching unit configured to match the task to a first group comprising a task that cannot be suspended and postponed, a second group comprising a task that cannot be suspended but does not necessarily require real-time processing, or a third group comprising a task that can be suspended and does not require an always-on power supply.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein a total energy consumption for a task matched to the first group during the time period is calculated using a number of access edge servers and an energy consumption for each task matched to the first group during the time period.
13. The system of claim 11, wherein a total energy consumption for one or more tasks matched to the second group during the time period is calculated using a number of tasks requested to be performed, an energy coefficient corresponding to a capacity of an access edge server, a total required calculation amount for one access edge server during the time period, and a calculation capacity of the access edge server.
14. The system of claim 11, wherein a total energy consumption for one or more tasks matched to the third group during the time period is calculated using a number of access edge servers, an energy consumption for each task matched to the third group during the time period, and a variable having a binary value.
15. The system of claim 10, wherein the feature of the energy comprises a task execution start time, a time required to perform a task, a consumption of commonly used energy, and a consumption of alternative energy.
16. The system of claim 10, wherein the generator comprises a data processor configured to normalize a consumption of commonly used energy and a consumption of alternative energy for the one or more tasks performed during the time period.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the data processor sets a minimum value among all energy consumptions for the one or more tasks performed during the time period to 0 and a maximum value to 1 and matches all the energy consumptions to a value between 0 and 1 on the basis of the minimum value and the maximum value, and the energy consumptions indicate the consumption of the commonly used energy or the consumption of the alternative energy.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the generator generates the energy demand model using a linear data regression analysis model.
</claims>
</document>
