<document>

<filing_date>
2016-01-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-01-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q30/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WALMART APOLLO
WAL-MART STORES
</assignee>

<inventors>
CHATWIN, RICHARD
KOTRESH, YASHASWINI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
59385820
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for item discoverability
</title>

<abstract>
In some embodiments, a method can comprise analyzing user interaction with one or more items. In some embodiments, analyzing user interaction with the one or more items can comprise determining a number of impressions for each item of the one or more items. In many embodiments, the method can further comprise determining at least one undiscovered item of the one or more items based at least in part on the analyzing user interaction with the one or more items, estimating a performance of the at least one undiscovered item of the one or more items, promoting the at least one undiscovered item of the one or more items based at least in part on the estimating the performance of the at least one undiscovered item of the one or more items. Other embodiments of related methods and systems are also provided.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A system comprising: one or more processing modules; and one or more non-transitory storage modules storing computing instructions configured to run on the one or more processing modules and perform the acts of: storing a product catalog in a database, the product catalog comprising multiple items; analyzing user interaction, received from a user interface of a user computer, with the multiple items by: determining a respective number of impressions for each item of the multiple items; determining that a first item of the multiple items is a first undiscovered item based at least in part on the analyzing the user interaction, received from the user interface of the user computer, with the multiple items, when a number of impressions for the first item is less than an impression constant, wherein the impression constant is determined based on impressions for first page items of the multiple items; determining a tradeoff based at least in part on an equality measure determined based on a number of impressions for the first undiscovered item and a Theil index calculated based on a respective number of impressions for each of the multiple items; promoting the first undiscovered item based at least in part on the determining the tradeoff by modifying a ranking of the first undiscovered item; and facilitating displaying of a modified display configuration, in the user interface of the user computer, based at least in part on the promoting the first undiscovered item.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein: modifying the ranking of the first undiscovered item comprises promoting the first undiscovered item to a lower position number.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein: the computing instructions are further configured to perform the acts of: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item based at least in part on a predicted add-to-cart rate for the first undiscovered item; and determining the tradeoff is further based at least in part on the estimating the performance of the first undiscovered item.
4. The system of claim 3, further comprising: determining an add-to-cart rate model for a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items.
5. The system of claim 3, wherein: modifying the ranking of the first undiscovered item comprises promoting the first undiscovered item to a lower position number; a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items is based at least on determining an add-to-cart rate model; determining the add-to-cart rate model is based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items; and the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
6. The system of claim 4, wherein: the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein: determining the tradeoff further comprises: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item; estimating a performance of a competing item of the multiple items, the competing item being one of: a second item of the multiple items to be replaced by the first undiscovered item; or a second undiscovered item of the multiple items; determining an opportunity cost by comparing the performance of the first undiscovered item and the performance of the competing item; and further determining the tradeoff based at least in part on the opportunity cost.
8. A method comprising: storing a product catalog in a database, the product catalog comprising multiple items; analyzing user interaction, received from a user interface of a user computer, with the multiple items by: determining a respective number of impressions for each item of the multiple items; determining that a first item of the multiple items is a first undiscovered item based at least in part on the analyzing the user interaction, received from the user interface of the user computer, with the multiple items, when a number of impressions for the first item is less than an impression constant, wherein the impression constant is determined based on a number of impressions for first page items of the multiple items; determining a tradeoff based at least in part on an equality measure determined based on a number of impressions for the first undiscovered item and a Theil index calculated based on a respective number of impressions for each of the multiple items; promoting the first undiscovered item based at least in part on the determining the tradeoff by modifying a ranking of the first undiscovered item; and facilitating display of a modified display configuration, in the user interface of the user computer, based at least in part on the promoting the first undiscovered item.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein: modifying the ranking of the first undiscovered item comprises promoting the first undiscovered item to a lower page number.
10. The method of claim 8 further comprising: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item is-based at least in part on a predicted add-to-cart rate for the first undiscovered item, wherein: determining the tradeoff is further based at least in part on the estimating the performance of the first undiscovered item.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: determining an add-to-cart rate model for a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein: modifying the ranking of the first undiscovered item comprises promoting the first undiscovered item to a lower page number; a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items is based at least on determining an add-to-cart rate model; determining the add-to-cart rate model is based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items; and the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein: the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein: determining the tradeoff further comprises: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item; estimating a performance of a competing item of the multiple items, the competing item being one of: a second item of the multiple items to be replaced by the first undiscovered item; or a second undiscovered item of the multiple items; determining an opportunity cost by comparing the performance of the first undiscovered item and the performance of the competing item; and further determining the tradeoff based at least in part on the opportunity cost.
15. A method comprising: analyzing user interaction, received from a user interface of a user computer, with multiple items by: determining a respective number of impressions for each item of the multiple items; determining that a first item of the multiple items is a first undiscovered item based at least in part on the analyzing the user interaction, received from the user interface of the user computer, with the multiple items, when a number of impressions for the first item is less than an impression constant, wherein the impression constant is determined based on a number of impressions for first page items of the multiple items; promoting the first undiscovered item based at least in part on an equality measure determined based on a number of impressions for the first undiscovered item and a Theil index calculated based on a respective number of impressions for each of the multiple items; and facilitating display of a modified display configuration, in the user interface of the user computer, based at least in part on the promoting the first undiscovered item.
16. The method of claim 15 further comprising: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item based at least in part on a predicted add-to-cart rate for the first undiscovered item, wherein: promoting the first undiscovered item is further based at least in part on the estimating the performance of the first undiscovered item.
17. The method of claim 16, further comprising: determining an add-to-cart rate model for a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items.
18. The method of claim 17, wherein: the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
19. The method of claim 16, wherein: a respective predicted add-to-cart rate for each of the multiple items is based at least on determining an add-to-cart rate model; determining the add-to-cart rate model is based at least in part on: historical product performance of each of the multiple items; and one or more attributes of each of the multiple items; and the one or more attributes comprise at least one of: brand; size; shape; color; price; weight; or shipping option.
20. The method of claim 15 further comprising: estimating a performance of the first undiscovered item; estimating a performance of a competing item of the multiple items, wherein: the competing item is one of: a second item of the multiple items to be replaced by the first undiscovered item; or a second undiscovered item of the multiple items; and comparing the performance of the first undiscovered item and the performance of the competing item, wherein: promoting the first undiscovered item is further based at least in part on the comparing the performance of the first undiscovered item and the performance of the competing item.
</claims>
</document>
