<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-27
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOEL, NEHA
BENZIO, BRITTNEY
Buggar, James Michael
Pudlo, Anne Marie
Miller, Ben
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72944576
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computing device, software application, and computer-implemented method for system-specific real-time threat monitoring
</title>

<abstract>
A computer-implemented method for real-time threat assessment of system assets. The method includes automatically receiving a plurality of structured threat intelligence data entries and automatically accessing a mapping definition corresponding to a system asset subtype. The mapping definition is automatically compared against the data entries, and at least one of the data entries is automatically matched to the system asset subtype based on the comparison. A threat aptitude and resources number and a threat frequency number are automatically determined based at least in part on the at least one matched data entry.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer-implemented method for real-time threat assessment of system assets, comprising, via one or more transceivers and/or processors: automatically receiving a plurality of structured threat intelligence data entries; automatically accessing a mapping definition corresponding to a system asset subtype, the mapping definition comprising a data field rule indicating a plurality of threat types; automatically comparing the mapping definition against the plurality of data entries, comparing the mapping definition including searching for instances of the plurality of threat types within data fields of the plurality of data entries; automatically matching at least one of the plurality of data entries to the system asset subtype based on the comparison with the mapping definition, the at least one matched data entry comprising a first data entry including an instance of a first threat type and a second data entry including an instance of a second threat type; retrieving a first constituent capability number corresponding to the first threat type and the system asset subtype; automatically determining a threat aptitude and resources number for the system asset subtype based at least in part on the at least one matched data entry and the first constituent capability number; and automatically determining a threat frequency number for the system asset subtype based at least in part on the at least one matched data entry.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein determining the threat aptitude and resources number for the system asset subtype further includes: retrieving a second constituent capability number corresponding to the second threat type and the system asset subtype, and generating the threat aptitude and resources number by calculating an arithmetic mean of a plurality of constituent capability numbers including the first constituent capability number and the second constituent capability number.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first constituent capability number and the second constituent capability number are retrieved from a pre-determined threat aptitude and resources number database.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the first constituent capability number and the second constituent capability number are respectively retrieved from data fields of the first data entry and the second data entry.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 4, wherein the first constituent capability number and the second constituent capability number are respectively retrieved at least in part by parsing data fields of the first data entry and the second data entry using a regular expression rule to extract vendor severity scores.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein: the plurality of constituent capability numbers includes a third constituent capability number corresponding to the first threat type and the system asset subtype and a fourth constituent capability number corresponding to the second threat type and the system asset subtype, the first constituent capability number and the third constituent capability number represent boundaries of a first constituent capability range corresponding to the first threat type, the second constituent capability number and the fourth constituent capability number represent boundaries of a second constituent capability range corresponding to the second threat type, and the boundaries of each of the first constituent capability range and the second threat capability range correspond to two of: (A) a low capability, (B) a high capability, and (C) a most likely capability.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 2, wherein the plurality of data entries corresponds to a plurality of events having occurred across a first timeframe, further comprising: automatically receiving a second plurality of structured threat intelligence data entries corresponding to a second plurality of events having occurred across a second timeframe; automatically accessing the mapping definition; automatically comparing the mapping definition against the second plurality of data entries; automatically matching at least one of the second plurality of data entries to the system asset subtype based on the comparison with the mapping definition; automatically determining a second threat aptitude and resources number for the system asset subtype based at least in part on the at least one matched data entry of the second plurality of data entries; and automatically determining a second threat frequency number for the system asset subtype based at least in part on the at least one matched data entry of the second plurality of data entries.
8. The computer-implemented method of claim 7, wherein: the comparison of the mapping definition against the second plurality of data entries includes searching for instances of the plurality of threat types within data fields of the second plurality of data entries, the at least one matched data entry of the second plurality of data entries includes a third data entry having an instance of the first threat type, the at least one matched data entry of the second plurality of data entries includes a fourth data entry including an instance of a third threat type of the plurality of threat types, the second plurality of data entries does not include a data entry with an instance of the second threat type, determining the second threat aptitude and resources number for the system asset subtype includes: (A) retrieving the first constituent capability number, (B) retrieving a third constituent capability number corresponding to the third threat type and the system asset subtype, and (C) generating the second threat aptitude and resources number by calculating an arithmetic mean of a second plurality of constituent capability numbers including the first constituent capability number and the third constituent capability number, and determining the second threat aptitude and resources number for the system asset subtype does not include retrieving the second constituent capability number.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: each of the plurality of threat types found in the at least one matched data entry is counted as a threat match, a plurality of other mapping definitions corresponding to a plurality of other system asset subtypes are compared against the plurality of data entries and a sum of other threat matches is counted across the plurality of other system asset subtypes, and determining the threat frequency number includes: counting a sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype, adding the sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype to the sum of other threat matches to get a total threat matches, and dividing the sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype by the total threat matches.
10. The computer-implemented method of claim 9, further comprising: automatically receiving device on-network notifications regarding a plurality of computing devices of the system asset subtype and a second plurality of computing devices of all the other system asset subtypes; and automatically maintaining a list of the plurality of computing devices and the second plurality of computing devices, wherein the sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype is weighted using a count of the plurality of computing devices and the sum of other threat matches is weighted using a count of the second plurality of computing devices.
11. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein: each instance in which one of the plurality of threat types is found in the data fields of the at least one matched data entry is counted as a threat match, a plurality of other mapping definitions corresponding to a plurality of other system asset subtypes are compared against the plurality of data entries and instances of matching are added to compute a sum of other threat matches across the plurality of other system asset subtypes, and determining the threat frequency number includes: counting a sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype, adding the sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype to the sum of other threat matches to get a total threat matches, and dividing the sum of threat matches for the system asset subtype by the total threat matches.
12. The computer-implemented method of claim 11, wherein: each of the plurality of data entries includes a timestamp and a threat source address, and data entries of the plurality of data entries that share the same threat source address and are separated by less than a pre-determined time-lapse are counted as a single instance.
13. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein a plurality of other threat frequency numbers respectively corresponding to a plurality of other system asset subtypes are determined, the threat frequency number and the plurality of other threat frequency numbers comprising a threat number set, further comprising mathematically partitioning the threat number set on a scale from one (1) to five (5).
14. The computer-implemented method of claim 13, wherein k-means clustering is used to partition the threat number set.
15. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: automatically receiving device on-network notifications regarding a plurality of computing devices of the system asset subtype; automatically maintaining a list of the plurality of computing devices; and automatically storing the threat aptitude and resources number and the threat frequency number in association with each of the plurality of computing devices.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the system asset subtype corresponds to a plurality of computing devices of the system assets that share an attribute.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 16, wherein the attribute of the system asset subtype corresponds to a shared susceptibility to one or more threat types.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 17, wherein the attribute comprises a pre-defined operating system.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein each of the plurality of data entries comprises data regarding a security event occurring in a third-party system.
</claims>
</document>
