<document>

<filing_date>
2017-12-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B19/406,G06N20/00,G06N99/00,H01L21/66,H01L21/67
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIALS
</assignee>

<inventors>
RAGAVAN, KOUSHIK
NURANI, RAMAN K.
SETHURAMAN, ANANTHA R.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66659091
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Semiconductor process control method
</title>

<abstract>
Implementations described herein generally relate method for detecting excursions in time-series traces received from sensors of manufacturing tools. A server extracts one or more time series traces and metrology data collected from one or more sensors associated with one or more manufacturing tools configured to produce a silicon substrate. The server identifies one or more candidate excursions of the one or more time series traces by comparing the one or more time series traces to one or more traces associated with a working reference sensor. The server verifies that a candidate excursion of the one or more candidate excursions is a true excursion based on correlating the one or more time series traces to the metrology data. The server instructs a manufacturing system to take corrective action to remove the selected true excursion.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for detecting excursions in time-series traces received from sensors of manufacturing tools, comprising: extracting one or more time series traces and metrology data collected from one or more sensors associated with one or more manufacturing tools configured to produce a silicon substrate, wherein the one or more time series traces includes a time transition associated with the one or more sensors between a first semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate and a second semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate; identifying one or more candidate excursions of the one or more time series traces by comparing the one or more time series traces to one or more traces associated with a working reference sensor; verifying that a candidate excursion of the one or more candidate excursions is a true excursion based on correlating the one or more time series traces to the metrology data; rank ordering the true excursion within a plurality of true excursions, and presenting the rank ordering of the plurality of true excursions and at least one sensor associated with each of the plurality of true excursions on a dashboard; receiving a selection of a suspected sensor of the one or more sensors, associated with the true excursion; and instructing a manufacturing system to take corrective action to remove a source of the true excursion related to the first or second semiconductor processing operations on the silicon substrate.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular sensor of the one or more sensors.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular substrate processing operation in a particular tool of the one or more manufacturing tools.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein correlating is based on applying a combination of stochastics and machine learning algorithms to the one or more time series traces and the metrology data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the metrology data comprises information about at least one of a thickness, an optical reflective index, an absorption index, a strength, and a critical dimension variation across the silicon substrate.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the one or more time series traces comprises information about at least one of temperature, gas flow, and RF power current.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting a notification of the verified excursion to a display that displays a dashboard of true excursions, their associated one or more time series traces, and their associated metrology data.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more operations in a recipe, a particular substrate, a particular chamber, and the tool associated with the true excursion that caused the true excursion.
9. The method of claim 8, further comprising: determining, based on the true excursion, its associated time series trace, and associated metrology data, predictive information about a quality of the silicon substrate; providing the predictive information to a manufacturing system, wherein the predictive information is further used to determine whether to take corrective action to remove the true excursion.
10. The method of claim 9, further comprising: providing the predictive information to a metrology tool, wherein the metrology tool checks for a problem based on the predictive information.
11. The method of claim 1, converting the one or more time series traces and the metrology data from a parameter-specific space into a parameter-agnostic space before performing one or more calculations before verifying.
12. The method of claim 11, further comprising converting a result of verifying back into the parameter specific space.
13. A computing system, comprising: a memory; and a processor configured to perform a method for detecting excursions in time-series traces received from sensors of manufacturing tools, the method comprising: extracting one or more time series traces and metrology data collected from one or more sensors associated with one or more manufacturing tools configured to produce a silicon substrate, wherein the one or more time series traces includes a time transition associated with the one or more sensors between a first semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate and a second semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate; identifying one or more candidate excursions of the one or more time series traces by comparing the one or more time series traces to one or more traces associated with a working reference sensor; verifying that a candidate excursion of the one or more candidate excursions is a true excursion based on correlating the one or more time series traces to the metrology data; rank ordering the true excursion within a plurality of true excursions, and presenting the rank ordering of the plurality of true excursions and at least one sensor associated with each of the plurality of true excursions on a dashboard; receiving a selection of a suspected sensor of the one or more sensors, associated with the true excursion; and instructing a manufacturing system to take corrective action to remove a source of the true excursion related to the first or second semiconductor processing operations on the silicon substrate.
14. The computing system of claim 13, wherein said correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular sensor of the one or more sensors.
15. The computing system of claim 13, wherein said correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular substrate processing operation in a particular tool of the one or more manufacturing tools.
16. The computing system of claim 13, wherein correlating is based on applying a combination of stochastics and machine learning algorithms to the one or more time series traces and the metrology data.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions that when executed by a computing device cause the computing device to perform a method for detecting excursions in time-series traces received from sensors of manufacturing tools, the method comprising: extracting one or more time series traces and metrology data collected from one or more sensors associated with one or more manufacturing tools configured to produce a silicon substrate, wherein the one or more time series traces includes a time transition associated with the one or more sensors between a first semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate and a second semiconductor processing operation on the silicon substrate; identifying one or more candidate excursions of the one or more time series traces by comparing the one or more time series traces to one or more traces associated with a working reference sensor; verifying that a candidate excursion of the one or more candidate excursions is a true excursion based on correlating the one or more time series traces to the metrology data; rank ordering the true excursion within a plurality of true excursions, and presenting the rank ordering of the plurality of true excursions and at least one sensor associated with each of the plurality of true excursions on a dashboard; receiving a selection of a suspected sensor of the one or more sensors, associated with the true excursion; and instructing a manufacturing system to take corrective action to remove the a source of the true excursion related to the first or second semiconductor processing operations on the silicon substrate.
18. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein said correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular sensor of the one or more sensors.
19. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein said correlating correlates the true excursion to a particular substrate processing operation in a particular tool of the one or more manufacturing tools.
20. The non-transitory computer-readable medium of claim 17, wherein correlating is based on applying a combination of stochastics and machine learning algorithms to the one or more time series traces and the metrology data.
</claims>
</document>
