<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-06-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06K9/00,G06K9/48,G06K9/62
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GOPALAN, RAGHURAMAN
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
64656684
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Image prediction
</title>

<abstract>
Concepts and technologies disclosed herein are directed to image prediction. According to one aspect disclosed herein, an image prediction system can receive a training data set that includes a plurality of training images. The image prediction system can define N-dimensional feature vectors corresponding to the plurality of training images in the training data set, parameterize the N-dimensional feature vectors to obtain a plurality of parameterized curves corresponding the plurality of training images in the training data set, obtain a square root velocity representation for each parameterized curve of the plurality of parameterized curves, rescale the plurality of parameterized curves to remove scaling variability among the plurality of parameterized curves, define a pre-shape space for the plurality of parameterized curves, and obtain shape space points pertaining to each parameterized curve of the plurality of parameterized curves on a shape space that inherits a structure from the pre-shape space.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: selecting, by an image prediction system comprising a processor, a topic for prediction; considering, by the image prediction system, a plurality of training points pertaining to the topic for prediction; determining, by the image prediction system, a mean of the plurality of training points on a shape space, wherein each training point of the plurality of training points corresponds to a square root velocity representation of a parameterized curve of a plurality of parameterized curves derived from a plurality of N-dimensional feature vectors, each N-dimensional feature vector corresponding to a training image of a plurality of training images in a training data set; warping, by the image prediction system, the plurality of training points from the shape space onto a tangent space defined at the mean; performing, by the image prediction system, dimensionality reduction by retaining eigenvectors with eigenvalues greater than 0.1; warping, by the image prediction system, a test point onto the tangent space corresponding to the topic for selected for prediction; performing, by the image prediction system, dimensionality reduction using a principal component analysis matrix learnt on the tangent space; considering, by the image prediction system, a nearest training neighbor based upon a distance of the eigenvectors; and predicting, by the image prediction system, a test image based upon a test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein selecting, by the image prediction system, the topic for prediction comprises selecting, by the image prediction system, the topic for prediction from a plurality of topics.
3. The method of claim 2, further comprising: selecting, by the image prediction system, a further topic for prediction from the plurality of topics; considering, by the image prediction system, a further plurality of training points pertaining to the further topic for prediction; determining, by the image prediction system, a further mean of the further plurality of training points on a further shape space, wherein each further training point of the further plurality of training points corresponds to a further square root velocity representation of a further parameterized curve of a further plurality of parameterized curves derived from a further plurality of N-dimensional feature vectors, each N-dimensional feature vector corresponding to a further training image of a further plurality of training images in a further training data set; warping, by the image prediction system, the further plurality of training points from the further shape space onto a further tangent space defined at the further mean; performing, by the image prediction system, dimensionality reduction by retaining further eigenvectors with further eigenvalues greater than 0.1; warping, by the image prediction system, a further test point onto the further tangent space corresponding to the further topic for selected for prediction; performing, by the image prediction system, dimensionality reduction using a further principal component analysis matrix learnt on the further tangent space; considering, by the image prediction system, a further nearest training neighbor based upon a further distance of the further eigenvectors; and predicting, by the image prediction system, a further test image based upon a further test parameterized curve corresponding to the further nearest training neighbor.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the image prediction system, the mean of the plurality of training points on the shape space comprises determining, by the image prediction system, a Karcher mean of the plurality of training points on the shape space.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising performing, by the image prediction system, a principal component analysis on the tangent space to capture a holistic trend of a temporal evolution pertaining to the topic selected for prediction.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein predicting, by the image prediction system, the test image based upon the test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor comprises predicting, by the image prediction system, a plurality of test images comprising the test image based upon a plurality of test parameterized curves comprising the test parameterized curves corresponding to a plurality of nearest training neighbors comprising the nearest training neighbor.
7. The method of claim 6, wherein predicting, by the image prediction system, the plurality of test images comprises temporally sampling, by the image prediction system, along each of the plurality of the test parameterized curves outside of a time interval to obtain a set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms a prediction output.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising comparing the set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms the prediction output to a ground truth set of N-dimensional feature vectors to obtain a prediction accuracy.
9. A computer-readable storage medium comprising computer-executable instructions that, when executed by a processor, causes the processor to perform operations comprising: selecting a topic for prediction; considering a plurality of training points pertaining to the topic for prediction; determining a mean of the plurality of training points on a shape space, wherein each training point of the plurality of training points corresponds to a square root velocity representation of a parameterized curve of a plurality of parameterized curves derived from a plurality of N-dimensional feature vectors, each N-dimensional feature vector corresponding to a training image of a plurality of training images in a training data set; warping the plurality of training points from the shape space onto a tangent space defined at the mean; performing dimensionality reduction by retaining eigenvectors with eigenvalues greater than 0.1; warping a test point onto the tangent space corresponding to the topic for selected for prediction; performing dimensionality reduction using a principal component analysis matrix learnt on the tangent space; considering a nearest training neighbor based upon a distance of the eigenvectors; and predicting a test image based upon a test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor.
10. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein selecting the topic for prediction comprises selecting the topic for prediction from a plurality of topics.
11. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein determining the mean of the plurality of training points on the shape space comprises determining a Karcher mean of the plurality of training points on the shape space.
12. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein the operations further comprise performing a principal component analysis on the tangent space to capture a holistic trend of a temporal evolution pertaining to the topic selected for prediction.
13. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 9, wherein predicting the test image based upon the test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor comprises predicting a plurality of test images comprising the test image based upon a plurality of test parameterized curves comprising the test parameterized curves corresponding to a plurality of nearest training neighbors comprising the nearest training neighbor.
14. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein predicting the plurality of test images comprises temporally sampling along each of the plurality of test parameterized curves outside of a time interval to obtain a set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms a prediction output.
15. The computer-readable storage medium of claim 14, wherein the operations further comprise comparing the set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms the prediction output to a ground truth set of N-dimensional feature vectors to obtain a prediction accuracy.
16. A system comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform operations comprising selecting a topic for prediction, considering a plurality of training points pertaining to the topic for prediction, determining a mean of the plurality of training points on a shape space, wherein each training point of the plurality of training points corresponds to a square root velocity representation of a parameterized curve of a plurality of parameterized curves derived from a plurality of N-dimensional feature vectors, each N-dimensional feature vector corresponding to a training image of a plurality of training images in a training data set, warping the plurality of training points from the shape space onto a tangent space defined at the mean, performing dimensionality reduction by retaining eigenvectors with eigenvalues greater than 0.1, warping a test point onto the tangent space corresponding to the topic for selected for prediction, performing dimensionality reduction using a principal component analysis matrix learnt on the tangent space, considering a nearest training neighbor based upon a distance of the eigenvectors, and predicting a test image based upon a test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein selecting the topic for prediction comprises selecting the topic for prediction from a plurality of topics.
18. The system of claim 16, wherein the operations further comprise performing a principal component analysis on the tangent space to capture a holistic trend of a temporal evolution pertaining to the topic selected for prediction.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein predicting the test image based upon the test parameterized curve corresponding to the nearest training neighbor comprises predicting a plurality of test images comprising the test image based upon a plurality of test parameterized curves comprising the test parameterized curves corresponding to a plurality of nearest training neighbors comprising the nearest training neighbor.
20. The system of claim 19, wherein predicting the plurality of test images comprises temporally sampling along each of the plurality of the test parameterized curves outside of a time interval to obtain a set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms a prediction output; and comparing the set of N-dimensional feature vectors that forms the prediction output to a ground truth set of N-dimensional feature vectors to obtain a prediction accuracy.
</claims>
</document>
