<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
E21B44/00,G06F3/0482,G06F3/0484
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
NABORS DRILLING TECHNOLOGIES USA
</assignee>

<inventors>
VALLERU, SRIKANTH
VINAY, NAMITHA
JAYABAL, JAYAPRASAD
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69645607
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Contextual drilling interface and recommendation system and methods
</title>

<abstract>
A method of managing a drilling anomaly includes providing a computing device comprising a graphical user interface ("GUI") that is configured to display a plurality of screens in response to detection of the drilling anomaly; displaying a first screen that includes a menu listing proposed actions to address the detected drilling anomaly and an estimated success rate associated with each of the proposed actions; wherein each of the proposed actions is selectable by a user via the GUI; receiving, by the computing device and via the GUI, a first selection command associated with a first proposed action from the menu; displaying a second screen that includes a first illustration depicting execution of the first proposed action that was selected by the user via the first selection command; and receiving, by the computing device and via the GUI, a command to execute one of the proposed actions.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method of managing a drilling anomaly, the method comprising: providing a computing device comprising a graphical user interface ("GUI") that is configured to display a plurality of screens to a user in response to detection of the drilling anomaly, displaying a first screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the first screen includes a menu listing proposed actions to address the detected drilling anomaly and an estimated success rate associated with each of the proposed actions; wherein each of the proposed actions is selectable by the user via the GUI; receiving, by the computing device and via the GUI, a first selection command associated with a first proposed action from the proposed actions; displaying a second screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the second screen includes a first illustration depicting execution of the first proposed action that was selected by the user via the first selection command; and receiving, by the computing device and via the GUI, a command to execute one of the proposed actions.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computing device, a second selection command associated with a second proposed action that is different from the first proposed action; and displaying a third screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the third screen includes a second illustration depicting execution of the second proposed action that was selected by the user via the second selection command; and wherein the second illustration is different from the first illustration.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the detected drilling anomaly is associated with a drilling operation of a wellbore; and wherein the first illustration is at least one of: an illustration of a bottom-hole-assembly ("BHA") relative to a wellbore through which the BHA extends; an illustration of the BHA relative to other wellbores through which the BHA does not extend; an illustration of a bit that forms a portion of the BHA relative to the wellbore; an illustration of the BHA moving relative to the wellbore through which the BHA extends; or an illustration of a tool associated with the drilling anomaly.
4. The method of claim 1, further displaying a fourth screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the fourth screen explains the estimated success rate associated with the first proposed action that was selected by the user via the first selection command.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein one of the proposed actions listed in the menu is a proposed action that the user has executed in response to historical drilling anomalies that are at least substantially the same as the detected drilling anomaly.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the drilling anomaly is at least one of: a stick-slip event; a predicted stick-slip event; a data entry error by the user; a kick detection; a predicted kick event; a high inflow detection; a predicted high inflow event; a deviation from a well plan; or a predicted deviation from the well plan.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising displaying a fifth screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the fifth screen includes one or more graphs detailing data received from a plurality of sensors; and wherein in response to the detection of the drilling anomaly, the fifth screen identifies the drilling anomaly and identifies portion(s) of the one or more graphs associated with the drilling anomaly.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising: displaying a fifth screen in the plurality of screens, wherein the fifth screen includes one or more graphs detailing data received from a plurality of sensors; wherein the fifth screen further includes a selectable visual alert in response to the detection of the drilling anomaly; and receiving, by the computing device and via the GUI, a selection command associated with the selectable visual alert; and wherein displaying the first screen is in response to receipt of the selection command associated with the selectable visual alert.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising executing, using the computing device, one of the proposed actions in response to the receipt of the command to execute one of the proposed actions.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the estimated success rate that is associated with each of the proposed actions is based on historical data.
11. A computing device comprising a graphical user interface ("GUI") configured to display a plurality of screens to a user in response to detection of a drilling anomaly, wherein a first screen in the plurality of screens includes a menu listing proposed actions to address the drilling anomaly and an estimated success rate associated with each of the proposed actions; wherein each of the proposed actions is selectable by the user via the GUI; wherein the computing device is configured to receive a first selection command associated with a first proposed action from the proposed actions, wherein a second screen in the plurality of screens includes a first illustration depicting execution of the first proposed action that was selected by the user via the first selection command; and wherein the computing device is configured to receive, via the GUI, a command to execute one of the proposed actions.
12. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the computing device is configured to receive a second selection command associated with a second proposed action that is different from the first proposed action; wherein a third screen in the plurality of screens includes a second illustration depicting execution of the second proposed action that was selected by the user via the second selection command; and wherein the second illustration is different from the first illustration.
13. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the drilling anomaly is associated with a drilling operation of a wellbore; and wherein the first illustration is at least one of: an illustration of a bottom-hole-assembly ("BHA") relative to a wellbore through which the BHA extends; an illustration of the BHA relative to other wellbores through which the BHA does not extend; an illustration of a bit that forms a portion of the BHA relative to the wellbore; an illustration of the BHA moving relative to the wellbore through which the BHA extends; or an illustration of a tool associated with the drilling anomaly.
14. The computing device of claim 11, wherein a fourth screen in the plurality of screens explains the estimated success rate associated with the first proposed action that was selected by the user via the first selection command.
15. The computing device of claim 11, wherein one of the proposed actions listed in the menu is a proposed action that the user has executed in response to historical drilling anomalies that are at least substantially the same as the detected drilling anomaly.
16. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the drilling anomaly is at least one of: a stick-slip event; a predicted stick-slip event; a data entry error by the user; a kick detection; a predicted kick event; a high inflow detection; a predicted high inflow event; a deviation from a well plan; or a predicted deviation from the well plan.
17. The computing device of claim 11, wherein a fifth screen in the plurality of screens includes one or more graphs detailing data received from a plurality of sensors; and wherein in response to the detection of the drilling anomaly, the fifth screen identifies the drilling anomaly and identifies portion(s) of the one or more graphs associated with the drilling anomaly.
18. The computing device of claim 11, wherein a fifth screen in the plurality of screens includes one or more graphs detailing data received from a plurality of sensors; wherein the fifth screen further displays a selectable visual alert in response to the detection of the drilling anomaly; wherein the computing device is configured to receive a selection command associated with the selectable visual alert; and wherein the computing device is configured to display the first screen in response to receipt of the selection command associated with the selectable visual alert.
19. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the computing device is configured to execute one of the proposed actions in response to the receipt of the command to execute one of the proposed actions.
20. The computing device of claim 11, wherein the estimated success rate that is associated with each of the proposed actions is based on historical data.
</claims>
</document>
