<document>

<filing_date>
2018-07-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-28
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-07-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
B60W10/04,B60W10/18,B60W10/20,B60W30/09,G06K9/00,G06K9/62,G08G1/16
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GM GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY OPERATIONS
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAO, PETER MING
MINSTER, GAUTIER ETIENNE GUILLAUME
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67551751
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Autonomous vehicle that includes sensor output batching system
</title>

<abstract>
An autonomous vehicle is described herein. The autonomous vehicle includes several sensor systems that asynchronously generate sensor system outputs. A batch generator system, executed by a processor, identifies batches of sensor system outputs to provide to an object classifier system, wherein the batches of sensor system outputs are identified based upon timing estimates, wherein the timing estimates include first timing estimates and second timing estimates. The first timing estimates include estimates of amounts of time needed by the object classifier system to complete processing of batches of different sizes. The second timing estimates includes estimates of when sensor system outputs are expected to be received from the several sensor systems.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An autonomous vehicle comprising: an engine; a braking system; a steering system; a plurality of sensor systems that generate a respective plurality of sensor system outputs; and a computing system that is in communication with the engine, the braking system, the steering system, and the plurality of sensor systems, wherein the computing system comprises: a processor; and memory that stores instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: receiving, from an object classifier system that is configured to assign labels to objects represented in sensor system outputs, an indication that the object classifier system is idle; responsive to receiving the indication, determining: a number of sensor system outputs to be included in a batch of sensor system outputs, wherein the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system, wherein each sensor system output in the batch is generated by a different sensor system in the plurality of sensor systems; and a time when the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system; and providing the batch to the object classifier system at the determined time, wherein the batch has the determined number of sensor outputs included therein, wherein the object classifier system assigns labels to the objects represented in the sensor systems outputs in the batch, and further wherein at least one of the engine, the braking system, or the steering system of the autonomous vehicle is controlled based upon the labels assigned to the objects.
2. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the number of sensor system outputs to be included in the batch and the time when the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system are determined to minimize an average exit delay of the sensor system outputs over a predefined window of time, wherein an exit delay for a sensor system output is an amount of time from when the sensor system output is ready to be provided to the object classifier system and when an indication is received that the object classifier system has completed processing of the sensor system output.
3. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch of sensor system outputs comprises: receiving, for a batch size, an amount of time expected for the object classifier system to complete processing of an arbitrary batch having the batch size, wherein the batch size represents a number of sensor system outputs in the arbitrary batch, and further wherein the amount of time is based upon the batch size; and determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch based upon the amount of time.
4. The autonomous vehicle of claim 3, wherein determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch of sensor system outputs further comprises: receiving, for a second batch size that is different from the batch size, a second amount of time expected for the object classifier system to complete processing of the arbitrary batch having the second batch size, and further wherein the second amount of time is based upon the second batch size; and determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch based further upon the second amount of time.
5. The autonomous vehicle of claim 3, wherein determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch of the sensor system outputs further comprises: identifying that there is a sensor system output in a buffer, wherein the sensor system output in the buffer is ready for provision to the object classifier system; and determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch based upon the at least one sensor system output being in the buffer.
6. The autonomous vehicle of claim 3, wherein determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch of the sensor system outputs further comprises: receiving an estimate of when an expected sensor system output is to be ready for provision to the object classifier system; and determining the number of sensor system outputs in the batch based upon the estimate of when the expected sensor system output is to be ready for provision to the object classifier system.
7. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein determining the time when the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system comprises: receiving a first estimate of when an expected sensor system output is to be ready for provision to the object classifier system; receiving a second estimate of an amount of time expected for the object classifier system to process the batch; and determining the time when the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system based upon the first estimate and the second estimate.
8. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein each sensor system in the plurality of sensor systems is of a same type.
9. The autonomous vehicle of claim 8, wherein each sensor system in the plurality of sensor systems is an image system.
10. The autonomous vehicle of claim 9, wherein the sensor system outputs are images, and further wherein the image systems output the images asynchronously.
11. The autonomous vehicle of claim 1, wherein the number of sensor system outputs to be included in the batch and the time when the batch is to be provided to the object classifier system are determined based upon a rate at which the sensor systems generate the sensor system outputs.
12. A computing system of an autonomous vehicle, wherein the computing system comprises a processor and memory, wherein the memory stores instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: receiving an indication that an object classifier system is idle; responsive to receiving the indication, identifying a batch of sensor system outputs to provide to the object classifier system, wherein the sensor system outputs are generated by sensor systems on the autonomous vehicle, wherein the batch is identified based upon time estimates for different batch sizes, and further wherein each time estimate in the time estimates is indicative of an expected amount of time for the object classifier system to process a batch of one of the batch sizes; providing the batch of sensor system outputs to the object classifier system subsequent to identifying the batch, wherein the object classifier system assigns labels to objects represented in each sensor system output in the batch of sensor system outputs; and controlling at least one of an engine, a steering system, or a braking system of the autonomous vehicle based upon the labels assigned to the objects by the object classifier system.
13. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the batch has a size of one sensor output to four sensor outputs.
14. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the batch includes a sensor system output that has yet to be received when the batch is identified, and further wherein the batch of the sensor system outputs is provided to the object classifier system immediately responsive to the sensor system output being received.
15. The computing system of claim 12, the acts further comprising: subsequent to providing the batch of the sensor system outputs to the object classifier system, repeating the acts of receiving, identifying, providing, and controlling.
16. The computing system of claim 12, the acts comprising: responsive to receiving the indication that the object classifier system is idle, determining that a buffer includes a sensor system output, wherein the batch of sensor system outputs is identified based upon the buffer including the sensor system output.
17. The computing system of claim 12, the acts further comprising: responsive to receiving the indication that the object classifier system is idle, receiving an estimate of when a first sensor system output generated by a first sensor system is expected to be ready for processing by the object classifier system, wherein the batch of sensor system outputs is identified based upon the estimate.
18. The computing system of claim 12, wherein the batch of sensor system outputs comprises multiple sensor system outputs generated by multiple sensor systems, wherein the multiple sensor systems asynchronously generated the multiple sensor system outputs.
19. The computing system of claim 18, wherein the multiple sensor systems are image systems arranged about the autonomous vehicle, and further wherein the batch is identified based upon a rate at which the image systems output images.
20. A computing system comprising: a processor; and memory storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to perform acts comprising: identifying a batch of images that is to be provided to an object classifier system, wherein the batch of images comprises: a first image generated by a first camera system on an autonomous vehicle; and a second image generated by a second camera system on the autonomous vehicle, wherein the first image and second image were generated at different times, and further wherein the batch is identified based upon an estimated time that a third image is expected to be received from a third camera system on the autonomous vehicle; and providing the batch of images to the object classifier system, wherein the object classifier system is configured to assign labels to objects represented in the first image and the second image, and further wherein the autonomous vehicle is controlled based upon the labels assigned to the objects by the object classifier system.
</claims>
</document>
