<document>

<filing_date>
2018-12-05
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-08
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06K9/00,G06T7/564,G06T7/70,G06T7/80,H04L29/06,H04N17/00,H04N5/235
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING
</assignee>

<inventors>
BLEYER, MICHAEL
PRICE, RAYMOND KIRK
PEKELNY, YURI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67766248
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Real-world anchor in a virtual-reality environment
</title>

<abstract>
A head-mounted device ("HMD") is configured to perform intrinsic and/or extrinsic calibration of the HMD's camera system by exploiting a displayed electronic image rendered on a separate display screen. A series of images are captured using one or more of the HMD's cameras. The displayed image is a known image that includes markers with known characteristics to the HMD. The known characteristics include known marker shapes and a number of coded or un-coded markers. Each image in the series captures the displayed image at a different angle or distance relative to another image in the series. The HMD then identifies, from within the series of images, two-dimensional image positions of the markers. The HMD uses the two-dimensional image positions and a determined three-dimensional position of the markers to perform a bundle adjustment used to subsequently determine a position and angular alignment of the separate display screen relative to the HMD.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for performing intrinsic and/or extrinsic calibration of a camera system comprising one or more cameras used on a head-mounted device (HMD) that exploits a displayed electronic image that is being rendered on a display screen of a separate computer system, the method comprising: capturing a series of images of the displayed electronic image using one or more of the HMD's cameras, wherein the displayed electronic image is a known image that includes markers with known characteristics to the HMD, the known characteristics of the markers including known marker shapes and a number of coded or un-coded markers, and wherein each image in the series of images captures the displayed electronic image at a different angle or distance relative to another image in the series of images; identifying, from within the series of images, two-dimensional image positions of the markers; and using the two-dimensional image positions and a determined three-dimensional position of the markers relative to each other and/or relative to the HMD to perform a bundle adjustment used to subsequently determine a positional distance and angular alignment between the HMD and the display screen.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed electronic image is one of a plurality of displayed images, each one of the plurality of displayed images being displayed on a corresponding separate display screen.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein a database is maintained and records position information for each one of the corresponding separate display screens.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein, in a case in which the HMD includes only a single camera, a result of the bundle adjustment includes (1) intrinsic camera calibration parameters and (2) the three-dimensional position of the display screen.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein, in a case in which the HMD includes multiple cameras, a result of the bundle adjustment includes (1) intrinsic calibration parameters of each camera included in the multiple cameras, (2) extrinsic calibration parameters which include position and orientation of each camera included in the multiple cameras relative to each other, and (3) a particular position and a particular orientation of the display screen with reference to a three-dimensional coordinate system.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the known characteristics of the markers include a known distance between any pair of points in the known image, a line thickness, a line boldness, a line width, and a line height of lines included within the known image.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed electronic image is a buffered video recording.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the HMD periodically re-calibrates by periodically causing the displayed electronic image to be re-displayed and by periodically capturing one or more updated HMD images.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the series of images are burst images used to capture the displayed electronic image.
10. A head-mounted device (HMD) comprising: a camera system comprising one or more cameras; one or more processors; and one or more computer-readable hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by the one or more processors to cause the HMD to perform intrinsic and/or extrinsic calibration of the camera system by exploiting a displayed electronic image that is being rendered on a display screen of a separate computer system by causing the HMD to: capture a series of images of the displayed electronic image using one or more of the HMD's cameras, wherein the displayed electronic image is a known image that includes markers with known characteristics to the HMD, the known characteristics of the markers including known marker shapes and a number of coded or un-coded markers, and wherein each image in the series of images captures the displayed electronic image at a different angle or distance relative to another image in the series of images; identify, from within the series of images, two-dimensional image positions of the markers; and use the two-dimensional image positions and a determined three-dimensional position of the markers relative to each other and/or relative to the HMD to perform a bundle adjustment used to subsequently determine a positional distance and angular alignment between the HMD and the display screen.
11. The HMD of claim 10, wherein the displayed electronic image is one of a plurality of displayed images, each one of the plurality of displayed images being displayed on a corresponding separate display screen.
12. The HMD of claim 11, wherein a database is maintained and records position information for each one of the corresponding separate display screens.
13. The HMD of claim 10, wherein execution of the computer-executable instructions further causes the HMD to communicate with an internet of things device located within a same environment as the display screen to adjust a brightness of light within the environment, and wherein adjusting the brightness of light includes one or more of adjusting blinds in the environment or altering a dimness of an overhead light.
14. The HMD of claim 10, wherein determining the angular alignment is performed by determining an angular displacement between a central area of the displayed electronic image as rendered on the display screen and an optical axis of at least one camera of the HMD.
15. The HMD of claim 10, wherein the known characteristics of the markers include a known distance between any pair of points in the known image, a line thickness, a line boldness, a line width, and a line height of lines included within the known image.
16. The HMD of claim 10, wherein a particular distance between any pair of points in the image is calculated using a characteristic associated with dimensions of a model of the display screen of the separate computer system.
17. The HMD of claim 10, wherein a re-calibration process is performed in which user movement is guided using a displayed instruction on a display of the HMD and/or an audio instruction provided via speakers of the HMD.
18. The HMD of claim 10, wherein the series of images are burst images used to capture the displayed electronic image.
19. One or more hardware storage devices having stored thereon computer-executable instructions that are executable by one or more processors of head-mounted device (HMD) to cause the HMD to perform intrinsic and/or extrinsic calibration of a camera system of the HMD, which camera system includes one or more cameras, by exploiting a displayed electronic image that is being rendered on a display screen of a separate computer system by causing the HMD to: capture a series of images of the displayed electronic image using one or more of the HMD's cameras, wherein the displayed electronic image is a known image that includes markers with known characteristics to the HMD, the known characteristics of the markers including known marker shapes and a number of coded or un-coded markers, and wherein each image in the series of images captures the displayed electronic image at a different angle or distance relative to another image in the series of images; identify, from within the series of images, two-dimensional image positions of the markers; and use the two-dimensional image positions and a determined three-dimensional position of the markers relative to each other and/or relative to the HMD to perform a bundle adjustment used to subsequently determine a positional distance and angular alignment between the HMD and the display screen.
20. The one or more hardware storage devices of claim 19, wherein the displayed electronic image is one of a plurality of displayed images, each one of the plurality of displayed images being displayed on a corresponding separate display screen.
</claims>
</document>
