<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-04-07
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/955,G06N20/00,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
STRAUSS, EMANUEL ALEXANDRE
MA, HONGDA
CHANG, ZIXIAO
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
70056762
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Detecting cloaking of websites using model for analyzing URL redirects
</title>

<abstract>
An online system transmits to a mobile device a feed story that includes a uniform resource locator (URL) of a feed story website. The online system receives from the mobile device a URL log that includes URLs that the mobile device accessed in response to requesting content from the feed story website. The online system extracts a feature of at least one URL in the log, and inputs the extracted feature into a model that was trained, using machine learning, to identify websites that perform cloaking. The model generates a score indicating a likelihood that the feed story website performs cloaking based the extracted feature. The online system compares the score to a threshold to determine whether the feed story website performs cloaking. If the online system determines that the feed story website performs cloaking, the online system limits delivery of content including the URL of the feed story website.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: transmitting, by an online system, a feed story to a first mobile device of a user of the online system, the feed story including a uniform resource locator (URL) of a feed story website; receiving, by the online system from the mobile device, a URL log comprising representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device in response to requesting content from the feed story website; extracting a feature of at least one of the representations of the plurality of URLs in the URL log; inputting the extracted feature into a model trained using machine learning to identify websites that perform cloaking; generating, by the model, a score indicating a likelihood that the feed story website performs cloaking; comparing the score to a threshold to determine that the feed story website performs cloaking; and in response to determining that the feed story website performs cloaking, limiting delivery of content including the URL of the feed story website.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein limiting delivery of content including the URL of the feed story website comprises blocking the content from feeds of mobile devices of users of the online system.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first mobile device is running an application configured to perform steps comprising: accessing a feed including the feed story, requesting content from the feed story website, and logging representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the application in response to requesting content from the feed story website.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device have a first format, and the representations of the plurality of URLs transmitted by the mobile device have a second format different from the first format.
5. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, at the online system, the model for identifying websites that perform cloaking by: receiving, from a plurality of mobile devices, a plurality of logs of URLs accessed in response to content requests; receiving a set of data indicating whether each of a set of URLs is associated with cloaking, the set of URLs comprising URLs in the plurality of logs of URLs; and training the model using the plurality of logs of URLs and the set of data.
6. The method of claim 5, further comprising: further training the model based on additional logs of URLs received from mobile devices and data indicating whether at least one of the additional URLs performs cloaking.
7. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, by the online system to the first mobile device, a request for the URL log.
8. The method of claim 1, further comprising transmitting, by the online system to the first mobile device, instructions to: generate the URL log by logging representations of a plurality of URLs to which the first mobile device is directed in response to requesting content from a website; and return the URL log to the online system.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the URL log includes a representation of an initial URL requested by the first mobile device and a representation of at least one redirect URL provided by the feed story website.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein extracting a feature of the representation of a URL in the URL log comprises: identifying a canonical form of a selected URL in the log; and extracting a feature of the canonical form of the selected URL.
11. A method comprising: receiving, from a first mobile device, a URL log comprising representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device in response to an initial request for content from a website, wherein the plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device have a first format, and the representations of the plurality of URLs transmitted by the mobile device have a second format different from the first format; extracting a feature of at least one of the representations of the plurality of URLs in the URL log; determining, based on the extracted feature and using a model trained using machine learning, that the website performs cloaking; and in response to determining that the website performs cloaking, preventing a second mobile device from requesting the content from the website.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein preventing the second mobile device from requesting the content from the website comprises blocking delivery of a URL of the website to the second mobile device.
13. The method of claim 11, wherein the first mobile device is running an application for accessing content from the website, and for logging representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the application.
14. The method of claim 11, wherein determining, based on the extracted feature and using the model trained using machine learning, that the website performs cloaking comprises: inputting the extracted feature into the model, the model trained to identify websites that perform cloaking; and receiving from the trained model an indication that the website performs cloaking.
15. The method of claim 14, further comprising: generating, by the model, a score indicating a likelihood that a website performs cloaking based on the extracted feature, and comparing the score to a threshold to determine that the website performs cloaking.
16. The method of claim 14, further comprising: generating the model for identifying websites that perform cloaking by: receiving, from a plurality of mobile devices, a plurality of logs of URLs accessed in response to content requests; receiving a set of data indicating whether each of a set of URLs is associated with cloaking, the set of URLs comprising URLs in the plurality of logs of URLs; and training the model based on the plurality of logs of URLs and the set of data.
17. The method of claim 11, wherein the URL log includes a representation of an initial URL requested by the first mobile device and a representation of at least one redirect URL provided by the website.
18. The method of claim 11, wherein extracting a feature of the representations of the plurality of URLs comprises: isolating a canonical portion of each URL of the plurality of URLs; and extracting a feature of the canonical portions of the plurality of URLs.
19. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer instructions that when executed by a computer processor cause the computer processor to perform steps comprising: transmitting, by an online system, a feed story to a first mobile device of a user of the online system, the feed story including a uniform resource locator (URL) of a feed story website; receiving, by the online system from the mobile device, a URL log comprising representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device in response to requesting content from the feed story website; extracting a feature of at least one of the representations of the plurality of URLs in the URL log; inputting the extracted feature into a model trained using machine learning to identify websites that perform cloaking; generating, by the model, a score indicating a likelihood that the feed story website performs cloaking based the extracted feature; comparing the score to a threshold to determine that the feed story website performs cloaking; and in response to determining that the feed story website performs cloaking, limiting delivery of content including the URL of the feed story website.
20. A non-transitory computer readable medium storing computer instructions that when executed by a computer processor causes the computer processor to perform steps comprising: receiving, from a first mobile device, a URL log comprising representations of a plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device in response to an initial request for content from a website, wherein the plurality of URLs accessed by the first mobile device have a first format, and the representations of the plurality of URLs transmitted by the mobile device have a second format different from the first format; extracting a feature of at least one of the representations of the plurality of URLs in the URL log; determining, based on the extracted feature and using a model trained using machine learning, that the website performs cloaking; and in response to determining that the website performs cloaking, preventing a second mobile device from requesting the content from the website.
</claims>
</document>
