<document>

<filing_date>
2018-01-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-07-14
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-01-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H03M13/29,H04B7/04,H04B7/0404,H04B7/0456,H04B7/26,H04L1/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I (AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I)
</assignee>

<inventors>
GHOSH, ARUNABHA
NAMMI, SAIRAMESH
WANG, XIAOYI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67300255
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Facilitating semi-open loop based transmission diversity for uplink transmissions for 5G or other next generation networks
</title>

<abstract>
Facilitating semi-open loop based transmission diversity for uplink transmissions in a communications network is provided herein. A system can comprise a processor and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations. The operations can comprise receiving, from a network device, information related to a sounding reference resource. The information related to the sounding reference resource can be based on a sounding reference signal resource transmission detected during a defined time interval. The operations can also comprise, based on a selected weight vector cycling, selecting a weight vector from defined weight vectors stored in the memory, resulting in a selected weight vector. Further, the operations can comprise transmitting, to the network device, a signal that comprises the selected weight vector multiplied with the sounding reference signal, during the selected weight vector cycling.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A device, comprising: a processor; and a memory that stores executable instructions that, when executed by the processor, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: receiving, from a network device, information related to a sounding reference resource, wherein the information related to the sounding reference resource is based on a sounding reference signal resource transmission detected during a defined time duration; determining a selected weight vector cycling comprising determining a number of weight vectors for an entire bandwidth of a sounding reference signal; based on the selected weight vector cycling, randomly selecting a first weight vector from a group of defined weight vectors stored in the memory, resulting in a first selected weight vector; transmitting, to the network device, a signal that comprises the first selected weight vector multiplied with the sounding reference signal, during the selected weight vector cycling, wherein the determining the first selected weight vector cycling is based on a first defined granularity level associated with a first transmission of the signal and determined based on a first resource block level of the first transmission; and based on the selected weight vector cycling, selecting a second weight vector for a second transmission of a second signal that comprises the second weight vector multiplied with the sounding reference signal, wherein the selecting the second weight vector is based on a second defined granularity level associated with the second transmission and determined based on a second resource block level of the second transmission.
2. The device of claim 1, wherein the group of defined weight vectors stored in the memory comprises weight vectors used to transmit previous sounding reference signals during a previous defined time duration previous to the defined time duration.
3. The device of claim 1, wherein the selected weight vector is used for the entire bandwidth for the transmitting the signal that comprises the selected weight vector multiplied with the sounding reference signal.
4. The device of claim 1, wherein the receiving the information related to the sounding reference resource comprises receiving downlink control information that indicates the sounding reference resource for an uplink transmission, and wherein the defined time duration is a time window prior to a current time and comprises a configurable length.
5. The device of claim 1, wherein the operations further comprise, prior to the receiving the information related to the sounding reference resource, receiving, from the network device, a configuration of a non-codebook based transmission protocol for an uplink channel.
6. The device of claim 5, wherein the uplink channel is a physical uplink shared channel, and wherein the selecting the first weight vector and the second weight vector from the group of defined weight vectors stored in the memory facilitates a transmission diversity associated with transmissions of the device.
7. The device of claim 1, wherein the transmitting the selected weight vector multiplied with the sounding reference signal during the selected weight vector cycling comprises transmitting data via a downlink control channel configured to operate according to a fifth-generation wireless communication network protocol.
8. A method, comprising: facilitating, by a device comprising a processor and from a network device, receiving sounding reference resource information for use by the device during an uplink transmission; determining a number of weight vectors for an entire bandwidth of a sounding reference signal resulting in a selected weight vector cycling; based on the selected weight vector cycling, randomly selecting, by the device, a first weight vector from a group of defined weight vectors stored on the device and based on a first defined granularity level associated with a first transmission of the uplink transmission and selecting a second weight vector from the group of defined weight vectors stored on the device and based on a second defined granularity level associated with a second transmission of the uplink transmission, wherein the first defined granularity level and the second defined granularity level are determined based on respective physical resource group levels of the first transmission and the second transmission; and facilitating, by the device, the first transmission of the uplink transmission using a multiple of the first weight vector and the sounding reference signal and the second transmission of the uplink transmission using a multiple of the second weight vector and the sounding reference signal, wherein the sounding reference resource information comprises the sounding reference resource information determined to have been used by the device to transmit sounding reference signals during a defined duration.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the facilitating the transmission of the uplink transmission comprises periodically sending a sounding reference resource transmission.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein the facilitating the transmission of the uplink transmission comprises aperiodically sending a sounding reference resource transmission.
11. The method of claim 8, wherein the defined duration is a time window prior to a current time and comprises a configurable length.
12. The method of claim 8, further comprising, prior to the receiving the sounding reference resource information, facilitating, from the network device, receiving a configuration of a non-codebook-based transmission protocol for an uplink channel.
13. The method of claim 8, further comprising determining, by the device, a weight vector cycling to use for the uplink transmission.
14. The method of claim 8, wherein the sending the uplink transmission comprises sending the uplink transmission via a physical uplink shared channel, and wherein the selecting the first weight vector and the second weight vector from the group of defined weight vectors stored on the device facilitates transmission diversity of transmissions of the device.
15. A non-transitory machine-readable storage medium, comprising executable instructions that, when executed by a processor of a network device of a wireless network, facilitate performance of operations, comprising: determining sounding reference resource information for use by a mobile device based on a previous sounding reference signal transmission transmitted by the mobile device during a defined time duration, wherein the determining the sounding reference resource information comprises obtaining a selected weight vector cycling based on a number of weight vectors for an entire bandwidth, a defined granularity level based on a resource block level, and the previous sounding reference signal transmission transmitted by the mobile device during the defined time duration; and facilitating a transmission, to the mobile device, that comprises the sounding reference resource information for use by the mobile device.
16. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: determining respective channel quality indexes of the sounding reference resource information transmitted by the mobile device.
17. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 16, wherein the determining the respective channel quality indexes comprises estimating the respective channel quality indexes based on previously received signaling reference signals received during the defined time duration.
18. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise: configuring the mobile device with a non-codebook-based transmission protocol for uplink transmissions by the mobile device.
19. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the defined time duration is a time window prior to a current time and comprises a configurable length.
20. The non-transitory machine-readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the operations further comprise prior to the determining the sounding reference resource information, receiving a configuration of a non-codebook-based transmission protocol for an uplink channel.
</claims>
</document>
