<document>

<filing_date>
2019-04-08
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-26
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-08-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G10L25/51,H04L25/02,H04M1/56,H04M15/06,H04M3/22,H04M3/493,H04M7/12,H04Q1/45,H04Q3/70
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
PINDROP SECURITY
</assignee>

<inventors>
CORNWELL, JOHN
DEWEY, DAVID
GAUBITCH, NICK
KINGRAVI, HASSAN
STRONG, SCOTT
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
61069697
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Call classification through analysis of DTMF events
</title>

<abstract>
Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for call classification and for training a model for call classification, an example method comprising: receiving DTMF information from a plurality of calls; determining, for each of the calls, a feature vector including statistics based on DTMF information such as DTMF residual signal comprising channel noise and additive noise; training a model for classification; comparing a new call feature vector to the model; predicting a device type and geographic location based on the comparison of the new call feature vector to the model; classifying the call as spoofed or genuine; and authenticating a call or altering an IVR call flow.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method compromising: receiving, by a computer, a dual tone multi frequency (DTMF) tone associated with a phone call; generating, by the computer, an ideal DTMF tone corresponding to the received DTMF tone, wherein the ideal DTMF tone is noise-free; estimating, by the computer, additive noise in the received DTMF tone based on the difference between the received DTMF tone and the ideal DTMF tone; generating, by the computer, a feature vector based upon the additive noise; and executing, by the computer, a machine learning model on a difference between the received DTMF tone and the ideal DTMF tone to classify the phone call, wherein executing the machine learning model comprises feeding, by the computer, the feature vector to the machine learning model.
2. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by the computer, a feature vector based on the difference between the received DTMF tone and the ideal DTMF tone; and wherein executing the machine learning model comprises: feeding, by the computer, the feature vector to the machine learning model.
3. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computer classifies the phone call as fraudulent or non-fraudulent.
4. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the received DTMF tone is received as an analog audio signal.
5. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the received DTMF tone is received as an audio packet.
6. The computer-implemented method of claim 5, wherein the audio packet is a Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) audio packet.
7. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by the computer, a plurality of DTMF tones associated with a plurality of phone calls; generating, by the computer, a plurality of feature vectors based on the differences between each of the plurality of DTMF tones and an ideal DTMF tone; and training, by the computer, the machine learning model on the plurality of feature vectors.
8. A computer-implemented method of claim 1, further comprising: receiving, by a computer, a dual tone multi frequency (DTMF) tone associated with a phone call; generating, by the computer, an ideal DTMF tone corresponding to the received DTMF tone, wherein the ideal DTMF tone is noise-free; estimating, by the computer, channel noise in the received DTMF tone based on the difference between the received DTMF tone and the ideal DTMF tone; generating, by the computer, a feature vector based upon the channel noise; and executing, by the computer, a machine learning model on a difference between the received DTMF tone and the ideal DTMF tone to classify the phone call, wherein executing the machine learning model comprises: feeding, by the computer, the feature vector to the machine learning model.
9. The computer-implemented method of claim 1, wherein the computer is associated with an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system and the DTMF is received in response to IVR prompts.
10. A system comprising: a non-transitory storage medium storing a plurality of computer program instructions; a processor electrically coupled to the non-transitory storage medium and configured to execute the plurality of computer program instructions to: receive a first dual tone multi frequency (DTMF) tone associated with a first phone call originating from a phone number; generate a first feature vector from the first DTMF tone; receive a second DTMF tone associated with a second phone call originating from the phone number; generate a second feature vector from the second DTMF tone; and execute a machine learning model that is based on the first feature vector on the second feature vector to determine whether a device type from which the second phone call originated matches the device type from which the first phone call originated.
11. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to further execute the plurality of computer program instructions to: indicate that the first phone call is spoofed when the determined device type does not match an expected device type for the phone call.
12. The system of claim 10, wherein the feature vector is based upon at least one of a mean, a median, a variance, a standard deviation, a frequency, a wavelength, an amount of time, a coefficient of variation, or a percentile associated with the DTMF tone.
13. The system of claim 10, wherein the processor is configured to further execute the plurality of computer program instructions to: train the machine learning model based plurality of recordings of DTMF tones associated with a plurality of device types.
14. The system of claim 10, wherein the device type is at least one of a Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) phone, a smartphone, or a softphone.
15. A computer-implemented method comprising: receiving, by a computer, a first dual tone multi frequency (DTMF) tone associated with a phone call originating from a phone number and device type; generating, by the computer, a DTMF fingerprint associated with the phone number and device type based upon the first DTMF tone, the DTMF fingerprint being a machine learning model; receiving, by the computer, a second DTMF tone associated with a second phone call originating from the phone number; generating, by the computer, a feature vector from the second DTMF tone; executing, by the computer, the machine learning model on the feature vector to determine whether the feature vector of the received second DTMF tone matches the DTMF fingerprint associated with the phone number; and in response to the computer determining that the feature vector of the second DTMF tone does not match the DTMF fingerprint associated with the phone number and device type: indicating, by the computer, that the phone call is spoofed.
16. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the feature vector is based upon at least one of a mean, a median, a variance, a standard deviation, a frequency, a wavelength, an amount of time, a coefficient of variation, or a percentile associated with the DTMF tone.
17. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: in response to the computer determining that the fingerprint of the received DTMF tone matches the DTMF fingerprint associated with the phone number: indicating, by the computer, that the phone call is not spoofed.
18. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, further comprising: training, by the computer, the machine learning model on a plurality of DTMF tones associate with the phone number to learn the DTMF fingerprint associated with the phone number.
19. The computer-implemented method of claim 15, wherein the computer is associated with an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system and the DTMF is received in response to IVR prompts.
</claims>
</document>
