<document>

<filing_date>
2018-03-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F17/18,G06F21/56,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FIREEYE
</assignee>

<inventors>
Quan, Wei
Konda, Raghunath
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73019851
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
System and method for predicting and mitigating cybersecurity system misconfigurations
</title>

<abstract>
A computerized method for reconfiguring one or more malware detection systems each performing cybersecurity analyses on incoming data is described. The method involves receiving meta-information including metrics associated with a malware detection system. Based on the meta-information, a determination is made whether the malware detection system is operating at an optimal performance level. If not, results produced by conducting behavior analyses predicting operability of the malware detection system are determined and the results are provided as feedback to the malware detection system to update one or more configuration parameter values thereof.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized method for reconfiguring one or more malware detection systems each performing cybersecurity analyses on incoming data, the method comprising: receiving meta-information including metrics associated with the one or more malware detection systems; determining whether each of the one or more malware detection systems is operating at an optimal performance level by at least determining a correlation between the metrics and a baseline configuration being metrics gathered through experiential knowledge of meta-information associated with known malware detection systems, wherein the baseline configuration comprises utilization statistics including one or more of (i) hardware utilization statistics, (ii) virtual machine utilization statistics, or (iii) software utilization statistics; and generating results, based on the correlation between the metrics and the baseline configuration, provided as feedback to the one or more malware detection systems to update one or more configuration parameters of the one or more malware detection systems.
2. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the metrics include statistics associated with the one or more configuration parameters.
3. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the metrics include events monitored during operations of a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems.
4. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more malware detection systems being deployed as a cloud-based service and the optimal performance level associated with a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems corresponds to a preferred operating state for the malware detection system as measured by any one or more of the hardware utilization statistics, the virtual machine utilization statistics or the software utilization statistics associated with the malware detection system.
5. The computerized method of claim 1 further comprising: sending an alert message that requires an action by an administrator before one or more modified configuration parameters are provided to a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems to update the one or more configuration parameters of the malware detection system.
6. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein each of the one or more configuration parameters includes information that partially controls an operating state of a resource deployed within a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems.
7. The computerized method of claim 6, wherein a configuration parameter of the one or more configuration parameters is directed to virtual machine characteristics including a virtual machine utilization level.
8. The computerized method of claim 6, wherein the determining of the correlation between the metrics and the baseline configuration is conducted by a predictive model in operation within a system configuration optimization engine.
9. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the correlation conducted by the predictive model comprises an evaluation of configuration parameter values being part of the metrics with configuration parameter values pertaining to past configurations that are associated with either (i) non-optimal performance levels, (ii) optimal performance levels, or (iii) a combination of non-optimal performance levels and optimal performance levels.
10. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the determining whether each of the one or more malware detection systems is operating at the optimal performance level comprises determining, by the predictive model, whether a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection system is operating at the optimal performance level that represents a preferred operating state for the malware detection system performing cybersecurity analyses.
11. The computerized method of claim 8, wherein the predictive model is produced by at least training a machine learning model that includes applying different weighting factors to at least one of the one or more configuration parameters.
12. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the utilization statistics are represented by at least one of (i) a threshold, (ii) a range, (iii) a number, or (iv) an operational bound.
13. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the one or more configuration parameters include information to at least partially control an operating state of software operating within a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems.
14. The computerized method of claim 13, wherein the one or more configuration parameters includes a first configuration parameter directed to an operational setting of the malware detection system.
15. The computerized method of claim 14, wherein the operational setting includes one or more of (i) virtual machine characteristics including a number of active virtual machines used by the malware detection system or (ii) software characteristics including a number of active processes or a number of applications utilized by the active processes.
16. The computerized method of claim 13, wherein the baseline configuration associated with the malware detection system is selected based, at least in part, on a hardware profile for the malware detection system, along with other factors (e.g., threat landscape confronting the customer (for instance, as indicated by the industry protected by the malware detection system), subscription or customer type, etc.).
17. The computerized method of claim 13, wherein the baseline configuration associated with the malware detection system is selected based, at least in part, on a threat landscape confronting a customer associated with the one or more malware detection systems, the threat landscape reflects one or more factors including an industry protected by the malware detection system, a subscription type utilized by the customer, or a type of customer.
18. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the one or more malware detection systems are deployed within a public cloud network.
19. The computerized method of claim 18, wherein a system configuration optimization engine is configured to conduct the receiving, determining and generating operations is deployed within the public cloud network.
20. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the optimal performance level corresponds to or is associated with a preferred operating state of a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection system as measured by the hardware utilization statistics, the virtual machine utilization statistics, and/or the software utilization statistics.
21. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether each of the one or more malware detection systems is operating at the optimal performance level comprises a determination as to a degree of correlation between the metrics associated with the received meta-information and metrics associated with the baseline configuration including metrics associated with one or more of (i) known misconfigured malware detection systems, (ii) known optimal malware detection systems, or (iii) any combination of known misconfigured malware detection systems and known optimal malware detection systems.
22. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the determining whether each of the one or more malware detection systems is operating at the optimal performance level comprises determining a performance level for at least a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems by conducting operations on metrics provided by the malware detection system as part of the meta-information, the operations include assigning weighting to different metrics of the metrics provided by the malware detection system, the weighting to adjust the performance level toward one or more configuration parameters associated with the metrics that are more applicable to representing the performance level of the malware detection system when correlating with the baseline configuration.
23. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the results to be provided as feedback to the one or more malware detection systems is conducted to reduce a number of false negatives.
24. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the hardware utilization statistics includes at least one of processor utilization or an amount or degree of available memory for storage.
25. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the virtual machine utilization statistics includes information directed to a degree of utilization of one or more virtual machines operating within a selected malware detection system or information directed to identifying a number of virtual machines activated and operational within a selected malware detection system.
26. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the software utilization statistics include (i) information to determine what processes are running within a selected malware detection system or (ii) statistics associated with the processes or queue length.
27. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the one or more malware detection systems are part of a cloud service.
28. The computerized method of claim 1 is performed in a cloud service.
29. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the correlation between the metrics and the baseline configuration is conducted to determine whether a malware detection system of the one or more malware detection systems is operating at a non-optimal performance level, the non-optimal performance level indicating that the malware detection system is operating outside of a desired operating configuration.
30. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the feedback includes one or more modified configuration parameter values that differ from values of the one or more configuration parameters received as part of the meta-information.
31. The computerized method of claim 30 further comprising: updating the one or more configuration parameters of the one or more malware detection systems with the one or more modified configuration parameter values.
32. The computerized method of claim 31, wherein the updating of the one or more configuration parameters with the one or more modified configuration parameter values occurs in response to receipt of an approval from an administrator.
33. The computerized method of claim 1, wherein the one or more malware detection system includes a first malware detection system and the baseline configuration is based on a profile of the first malware detection system.
34. A system for detecting a cyber-attack comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, the memory comprises (i) a parser that, upon execution-by the one or more hardware processors, receives incoming data from a network device and recovers meta-information associated with one or more configuration parameters, (ii) a machine learning-modeling logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, conducts training on a machine learning model to produce a predictive model being applied to training data including data associated with the recovered meta-information to determine whether the network device is operating at a non-optimal performance level, and (iii) a system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors and based on the recovered meta-information, (a) determines whether the network device is operating at the non-optimal performance level, (b) determines one or more configuration parameter values associated with the one or more configuration parameters that, if modifiable, readjusts operability of the network device from the non-optimal performance level to an optimal performance level, and (c) generates a message including information to alter the one or more configuration parameter values at the network device.
35. The system of claim 34, wherein the parser of the memory comprises a first sub-parser configured to parse structured data of the incoming data to recover the meta-information associated with the one or more configuration parameter values.
36. The system of claim 35, wherein the parser of the memory further comprises a second sub-parser configured to parse unstructured data of the incoming data to recover information subsequent to specific keywords being monitored.
37. The system of claim 35, wherein the recovered meta-information including statistics associated with the one or more configuration parameter values that represent a performance level of the network device.
38. The system of claim 37, wherein the parser that, upon execution by the one or more processors, receives incoming data from the network device being a malware detection system including circuitry to detect and analyze incoming objects propagating into or through a local network for malware.
39. The system of claim 35, wherein the system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, determines whether the network device is operating at the non-optimal performance level based on at least a prescribed degree of correlation between the statistics associated with a first configuration parameter of the one or more configuration parameters and the optimal performance level being a preferred operating state for the network device as measured by hardware utilization statistics.
40. The system of claim 35, wherein the system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, determines whether the network device is operating at the non-optimal performance level based on at least a prescribed degree of correlation between the statistics associated with a first configuration parameter of the one or more configuration parameters and the optimal performance level being a preferred operating state for the network device as measured by virtual machine utilization statistics.
41. The system of claim 35, wherein the system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, determines whether the network device is operating at the non-optimal performance level based on at least a prescribed degree of correlation between the statistics associated with a first configuration parameter of the one or more configuration parameters and the optimal performance level being a preferred operating state for the network device as measured by software utilization statistics.
42. The system of claim 34, wherein the system health reporting logic, upon execution by the one or more processors, performs iterative operations including modifying at least one configuration parameter value and analyzing predicted changes in performance level of the source in returning the network device to the optimal performance level.
43. The system of claim 8 further comprising an administrative interface operating as is a portal that allows an administrator, after credential exchange and authentication, to access and update logic stored within the memory, the portal allows for accessing and updating logic by at least modifying (i) one or more triggering events or timeout parameters associated with an event/timeout monitoring logic executed by the one or more processors, or (ii) code configured to detect a presence of malware within an object or its association with a cyberattack, or (iii) operational settings associated with the malware detection system, or (iv) software associated with the malware detection system.
44. The system of claim 34, wherein the machine learning modeling logic, upon execution by the one or more processors, conducts training on the machine learning model to produce the predictive model using labeled training data and unlabeled training data.
45. The system of claim 44, wherein the machine learning modeling logic, upon execution by the one or more processors, conducts the supervised training on the machine learning model using the labeled training data to initially train the machine learning model to improve detection accuracy of the machine learning model in determining whether the network device is operating at a non-optimal performance level until a prescribed accuracy is achieved.
46. A system for detecting a cyber-attack comprising: one or more processors; a memory communicatively coupled to the one or more processors, the memory comprises (i) a parser that, upon execution by the one or more processors, receives incoming data from a network device and recovers meta-information associated with one or more configuration parameters and determines a hardware profile of the network device, (ii) a machine learning modeling logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, processes a machine learning predictive model that determines whether the network device is operating at a non-optimal performance level or an optimal performance level based on the recovered meta-information, and (iii) a system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors and utilizes the machine learning predictive model, (a) determines whether the network device is operating at the non-optimal performance level, (b) determines one or more configuration parameter values associated with the one or more configuration parameters that, if modifiable, readjusts operability of the network device from the non-optimal performance level to an optimal performance level, and (c) generates a message including information to alter the one or more configuration parameter values at the network device.
47. The system of claim 46, wherein the system health reporting logic that, upon execution by the one or more processors, further generates an update of the machine learning predictive model to enable the network device to analyze performance level locally and in real time.
48. The system of claim 46, wherein the machine learning modeling logic being configured to conduct training on a machine learning model using training data to produce the machine learning predictive model, the training data includes information associated the meta-information.
49. The system of claim 48, wherein the information associated with the meta-information includes normalized, heuristic data pertaining to the configuration parameter values.
50. The system of claim 48, wherein the machine learning modeling logic is configured to evaluate operability of the machine learning model by applying different weighting factors for different configuration parameter values of the configuration parameter values received from the parser.
51. The system of claim 46, wherein the machine learning modeling logic is configured to evaluate operability of the machine learning model based on the training data including at least configuration parameter values associated a machine learning model operating on the system health reporting logic.
</claims>
</document>
