<document>

<filing_date>
2016-07-14
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-07-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01C21/28,G01W1/00,G05D1/00,G06Q40/08,G07C5/02,G07C5/08
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
STATE FARM MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
DAVIS, TIMOTHY JOEL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
73052195
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for allocating fault to autonomous vehicles
</title>

<abstract>
In one aspect, a system for allocating fault in a collision involving a vehicle is provided. The system may include (1) a sensor coupled to the vehicle and configured to collect contextual data related to the collision, (2) a non-transitory memory configured to store the contextual data, and (3) a processor coupled to the non-transitory memory and configured to (a) gain access to the contextual data, and (b) compute and assign a fault percentage to a driver of the vehicle based upon the contextual data.
</abstract>

<claims>
I claim:
1. An autonomous vehicle system for determining and allocating an extent of fault in a collision involving an autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle system comprising: the autonomous vehicle; a plurality of sensors affixed to the autonomous vehicle and configured to: detect contextual information, the contextual information representing i) driving conditions associated with the autonomous vehicle and related to the collision, ii) a first position of one or more participants of the collision, and iii) a second position of one or more non-participants of the collision; and transmit, to a processor of an autonomous vehicle computer device coupled to the autonomous vehicle, contextual data including the contextual information; and the autonomous vehicle computer device coupled to the autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle computer device comprising i) a non-transitory memory storing driving data and the contextual data collected by the plurality of sensors, and ii) a processor communicatively coupled to the non-transitory memory and the plurality of sensors, the processor configured to: execute a stored control program configured to operate the autonomous vehicle; during execution of the stored control program, generate driving data including driving information representing an operation of the autonomous vehicle during the execution of the stored program; in response to the collision, retrieve the driving data and the contextual data from the non-transitory memory, and compute and assign, based upon the contextual data and the driving data, a first fault score for the autonomous vehicle, a second fault score for the one or more participants of the collision, and a third fault score for the one or more non-participants of the collision, wherein the one or more participants and the one or more non-participants are at least one of a pedestrian, a cyclist, a condition of an environment, and a government entity, wherein the first fault score for the autonomous vehicle is reduced in proportion to the second fault score and the third fault score.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the plurality of sensors are further configured to detect activity of a second party to the collision, the activity including activity prior to the collision and activity during the collision.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors comprises an optical sensor.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors is further configured to detect the condition of the environment in which the collision occurs.
5. The system of claim 4, wherein at least one sensor of the plurality of sensors comprises an acoustic sensor for detecting the condition of the environment.
6. The system of claim 5, wherein the condition of the environment includes a road condition.
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: write the driving data to the non-transitory memory; assign the first fault score assigned to the autonomous vehicle based upon the driving data; and alter the first fault score if the contextual data indicates that the condition of the environment contributed to the collision.
8. A computer-implemented method for determining and allocating an extent of fault in a collision involving an autonomous vehicle, said method implemented using an autonomous vehicle computer device coupled to the autonomous vehicle, the autonomous vehicle computer device including a processor in communication with a non-transitory memory in the autonomous vehicle, and a plurality of sensors affixed to the autonomous vehicle and communicatively coupled to the processor, said method comprising: executing, by the processor, a stored control program configured to operate the autonomous vehicle; during execution of the stored control program, generating driving data including driving information representing an operation of the autonomous vehicle during the execution of the stored program; detecting, by the processor, contextual information using the plurality of sensors, the contextual information representing i) driving conditions associated with the autonomous vehicle and related to the collision, ii) a first position of one or more participants of the collision, and iii) a second position of one or more non-participants of the collision; receiving, by the processor from the plurality of sensors, contextual data including the contextual information; and in response to the collision, processing, by the processor, the driving data and the contextual data; computing, by the processor, a first fault score for the autonomous vehicle, a second fault score for the one or more participants of the collision, and a third fault score for the one or more non-participants of the collision, wherein the one or more participants and the one or more non-participants are at least one of another vehicle, a pedestrian, a cyclist, a condition of an environment, and a government entity, wherein the first fault score for the autonomous vehicle represents a first percentage of fault for the collision allocated to the autonomous vehicle, the second fault score for the one or more participants represents a second percentage of fault for the collision allocated to the one or more participants, and the third fault score for the one or more non-participants represents a third percentage of fault for the collision allocated to the one or more non-participants, and wherein the first fault score for the autonomous vehicle is reduced in proportion to the second fault score and the third fault score.
9. The method of claim 8 further comprising autonomously operating the autonomous vehicle according to the stored control program.
10. The method of claim 8, wherein generating driving data comprises logging input from an operator of the autonomous vehicle.
11. The method of claim 8 further comprising processing, by the processor, the contextual data to compute the second fault score for a second vehicle involved in the collision, the second fault score representing a percentage of fault for the collision allocated to an operator of the second vehicle.
12. The method of claim 8 further comprising processing, by the processor, the contextual data to compute the second fault score for an environmental condition present at the collision.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the second fault score represents a percentage of fault for the collision allocated to an entity accountable for the environmental condition present at the collision.
14. The method of claim 13, wherein the environmental condition includes at least one of a damaged road, insufficient road markings, and insufficient road signage.
15. The method of claim 12, wherein the second fault score represents a percentage of fault for the collision allocated to a natural occurring environmental condition.
</claims>
</document>
