<document>

<filing_date>
2018-08-21
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2021-01-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-08-21
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F40/58,G10L15/00,H04M3/51,H04M3/523
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
LANGUAGE LINE SERVICES
</assignee>

<inventors>
D'PENHA, LINDSAY
BOUTCHER, JAMES
CORDELL, JEFFREY
BOOM, JORDY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69587062
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Monitoring and management configuration for agent activity
</title>

<abstract>
A configuration is implemented via a processor to receive a request to perform a service. Further, the configuration selects a human representative from a plurality of human representatives associated with a communication center based on a computing device associated with the human representative indicating that the human representative is online and available to perform the service. In addition, the configuration routes the request to the computing device associated with the human representative. The configuration also monitors activity of the human representative at the computing device associated with the human representative. Further, the configuration determines that the activity of the human representative is inconsistent with the human representative being available to perform the service. Finally, the configuration reroutes the request to a different computing device associated with a different human representative.
</abstract>

<claims>
We claim:
1. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device having a computer readable program stored thereon, wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to: receive, with a processor, a request for spoken language interpretation from a first spoken language to a second spoken language; select, with the processor, a human language interpreter from a plurality of human language interpreters associated with a communication center based on a computing device associated with the human language interpreter indicating that the human language interpreter is online and available to perform the spoken language interpretation; route, with the processor, the request to the computing device associated with the human language interpreter; monitor, with the processor, interactivity of the human language interpreter with a software application executed at the computing device associated with the human language interpreter; determine, with the processor, that the interactivity matches a pattern of interactivity indicative of a substantial probability of the human language interpreter being unavailable to perform the spoken language interpretation, the pattern of interactivity being stored in a pattern database that stores a plurality of patterns corresponding to human language interpreter interactions with the software application, including agent activity of one or more different human language interpreters than the human language interpreter interacting with the software application prior to the interactivity of the human language interpreter with the software application, or prior agent activity of the human language interpreter interacting with the software application in one or more previous language interpretation sessions; and reroute, with the processor, the request to a different computing device associated with a different human language interpreter based upon the interactivity matching the pattern of interactivity.
2. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the computer is further caused to monitor the interactivity of the human language interpreter by detecting voice energy emanating from the human language interpreter.
3. The computer program product of claim 2, wherein the voice energy is detected via a microphone apparatus in operable communication with the computing device.
4. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the computer is further caused to monitor the interactivity by detecting a lack of one or more inputs performed by the human language interpreter at the computing device.
5. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the computer is further caused to monitor the interactivity by detecting one or more surrounding environmental factors.
6. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the computer is further caused to send a training video to the computing device so that the computing device displays data to the human language interpreter to train the human language interpreter to be consistent with the human language interpreter being available to perform the spoken language interpretation.
7. A method comprising: receiving, with a processor, a request for spoken language interpretation from a first spoken language to a second spoken language; selecting, with the processor, a human language interpreter from a plurality of human language interpreters associated with a communication center based on a computing device associated with the human language interpreter indicating that the human language interpreter is online and available to perform the spoken language interpretation; routing, with the processor, the request to the computing device associated with the human language interpreter; monitoring, with the processor, interactivity of the human language interpreter with a software application executed at the computing device associated with the human language interpreter; determining, with the processor, that the interactivity of the language interpreter matches a pattern of interactivity indicative of a substantial probability of the human language interpreter being unavailable to perform the spoken language interpretation, the pattern of interactivity being stored in a pattern database that stores a plurality of patterns corresponding to human language interpreter interactions with the software application, including agent activity of one or more different human language interpreters than the human language interpreter interacting with the software application prior to the interactivity of the human language interpreter with the software application, or prior agent activity of the human language interpreter interacting with the software application in one or more previous language interpretation sessions; and rerouting, with the processor, the request to a different computing device associated with a different human language interpreter based upon the interactivity matching the pattern of interactivity.
8. The method of claim 7, further comprising monitoring the interactivity of the human language interpreter by detecting voice energy emanating from the human language interpreter.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein the voice energy is detected via a microphone apparatus in operable communication with the computing device.
10. The method of claim 7, further comprising monitoring the interactivity by detecting a lack of one or more inputs performed by the human language interpreter at the computing device.
11. The method of claim 7, further comprising monitoring the interactivity by detecting one or more surrounding environmental factors.
12. The method of claim 7, further comprising sending a training video to the computing device so that the computing device displays data to the human language interpreter to train the human language interpreter to be consistent with the human language interpreter being available to perform the spoken language interpretation.
13. An apparatus comprising: a processor that receives a request for spoken language interpretation from a first spoken language to a second spoken language, selects a human language interpreter from a plurality of human language interpreters associated with a communication center based on a computing device associated with the human language interpreter indicating that the human language interpreter is online and available to perform the spoken language interpretation, routes the request to the computing device associated with the human language interpreter, monitors interactivity of the language interpreter with a software application executed at the computing device associated with the human language interpreter, determines that the interactivity matches a pattern of interactivity indicative of a substantial probability of the language interpreter being unavailable to perform the spoken language interpretation, including agent activity of one or more different human language interpreters than the human language interpreter interacting with the software application prior to the interactivity of the human language interpreter with the software application, or prior agent activity of the human language interpreter interacting with the software application in one or more previous language interpretation sessions, and reroutes the request to a different computing device associated with a different human language interpreter, the pattern of interactivity being stored in a pattern database that stores a plurality of patterns corresponding to human language interpreter interactions with the software application.
14. The apparatus of claim 13, wherein the processor further monitors the interactivity of the human language interpreter by detecting voice energy emanating from the human language interpreter.
15. The apparatus claim 14, further comprising a microphone apparatus that detects the voice energy.
16. A computer program product comprising a computer readable storage device having a computer readable program stored thereon, wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to: receive, with a processor, a request to perform a service; select, with the processor, a human representative from a plurality of human representatives associated with a communication center based on a computing device associated with the human representative indicating that the human representative is online and available to perform the service; route, with the processor, the request to the computing device associated with the human representative; monitor, with the processor, interactivity of the human representative with a software application executed at the computing device associated with the human representative; determine, with the processor, that the interactivity matches a pattern of interactivity indicative of a substantial probability of the language interpreter being unavailable to perform the service, the pattern of interactivity being stored in a pattern database that stores a plurality of patterns corresponding to human representative interactions with the software application, including agent activity of one or more different human language interpreters than the human language interpreter interactinq with the software application prior to the interactivity of the human language interpreter with the software application, or prior agent activity of the human language interpreter interacting with the software application in one or more previous language interpretation sessions; and reroute, with the processor, the request to a different computing device associated with a different human representative based upon the interactivity matching the pattern of interactivity.
17. The computer program product of claim 1, wherein the pattern of interactivity is measured according to physical presence of a monitored human language interpreter and a monitored computing device operated by the human language interpreter being outside of a geographical threshold.
</claims>
</document>
