<document>

<filing_date>
2014-08-29
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-05-05
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-08-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F15/16,H04L12/58
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
GOOGLE
</assignee>

<inventors>
FIORAVANTI, RYAN JAMES
UMAPATHY, VIJAY
POLLOCK, XANDER
AGARWAL, SHALINI
SEGEL-BROWN, LIAM ASHER
LANDRY, MICHAEL CHRISTOPHER JOSEPH
PROCH, RYAN
KOURIM, TAYLOR
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
55403875
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for temporarily postponing messages
</title>

<abstract>
A method postpones an electronic message displayed for a user of a computing device. The user provides input to postpone the electronic message. Postponement options are displayed for the user. The user selects one of the options. Display of the message at the computing device is inhibited accordingly. One option enables a user to repeat the most recently selected postponement option. Another option postpones the message until the computing device is at a user-designated location. Another option inhibits display of the message at the computing device, but enables display of the message at another user-specified second computing device. Some postponement options are generated according to context of the electronic message, such as the content of the electronic message, the date or time when the user requested the postponement, or prior history of user-selected postponements. Some options are based on a sampling of postponement options selected by a plurality of users.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: at a computing device having one or more processors and memory storing one or more programs configured for execution by the one or more processors: for each message of a plurality of electronic messages: displaying the electronic message for a user of the computing device; while displaying the electronic message, receiving user input to postpone the electronic message; in response to the user input to postpone the electronic message, displaying a list containing a plurality of postponement options, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes: a first option that prompts the user to specify a date and time for postponing the electronic message; and a second option that specifies a particular postponement date and time selected by the computing device according to context of the electronic message, wherein the context includes content of the electronic message; receiving user selection of a postponement option of the displayed plurality of postponement options; and inhibiting display of the electronic message at the computing device according to the selected postponement option; wherein the second option is generated as a probable postponement option based at least in part on information derived from one or more previously selected postponement options in a postponement log accessible by the computing device.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message is a task reminder.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the electronic message is an email message.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to repeat a postponement option previously selected by the user to postpone an earlier electronic message.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to postpone the electronic message for a user-specified duration.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to postpone the electronic message until the computing device is within a threshold distance of a user-designated location.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to inhibit display of the electronic message at the computing device, but to enable display of the electronic message at a user-specified second computing device distinct from the computing device.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to postpone the electronic message indefinitely, wherein the selected postponement option is an indefinite postponement option, and wherein the method further comprises: inhibiting display of the electronic message until receiving subsequent user input to display postponed messages.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the context of the electronic message used by the computing device to select the particular date and time includes a date or time when the user input to postpone the electronic message was received.
10. The method of claim 1, wherein the context of the electronic message used by the computing device to select the particular postponement date and time includes prior history of postponement options selected by the user.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes one or more options of commonly selected postponement options based on a sampling of postponement options selected by a plurality of users.
12. The method of claim 11, wherein the one or more commonly selected postponement options include one or more options selected from the group consisting of later today, tomorrow, and next week.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the second option includes a plurality of alternatives selected by the computing device, each alternative providing a different postponement date and time.
14. The method of claim 1, wherein the method includes: generating a plurality of probable postponement options; and selecting at least the second option from the plurality of probable postponement options for display upon determination of satisfying a probability threshold.
15. A computing device, comprising: one or more processors; memory; and one or more programs stored in the memory configured for execution by the one or more processors, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: for each message of a plurality of electronic messages: displaying the electronic message for a user of the computing device; while displaying the electronic message, receiving user input to postpone the electronic message; in response to the user input to postpone the electronic message, displaying a list containing a plurality of postponement options, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes: a first option that prompts the user to specify a date and time for postponing the electronic message; and a second option that specifies a particular postponement date and time selected by the computing device according to context of the electronic message, wherein the context includes content of the electronic message; receiving user selection of a postponement option of the displayed plurality of postponement options; and inhibiting display of the electronic message at the computing device according to the selected postponement option; wherein the second option is generated as a probable postponement option based at least in part on information derived from one or more previously selected postponement options in a postponement log accessible by the computing device.
16. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to repeat a postponement option previously selected by the user to postpone an earlier electronic message.
17. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an option to postpone the electronic message until the computing device is within a threshold distance of a user-designated location.
18. The computing device of claim 15, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to inhibit display of the electronic message at the computing device, but to enable display of the electronic message at a user-specified second computing device distinct from the computing device.
19. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium storing one or more programs configured for execution by a computing device having one or more processors and memory, the one or more programs comprising instructions for: for each message of a plurality of electronic messages: displaying the electronic message for a user of the computing device; while displaying the electronic message, receiving user input to postpone the electronic message; in response to the user input to postpone the electronic message, displaying a list containing a plurality of postponement options, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes: a first option that prompts the user to specify a date and time for postponing the electronic message; and a second option that specifies a particular postponement date and time selected by the computing device according to context of the electronic message, wherein the context includes content of the electronic message; receiving user selection of a postponement option of the displayed plurality of postponement options; and inhibiting display of the electronic message at the computing device according to the selected postponement option; wherein the second option is generated as a probable postponement option based at least in part on information derived from one or more previously selected postponement options in a postponement log accessible by the computing device.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to repeat a postponement option previously selected by the user to postpone an earlier electronic message.
21. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 19, wherein the displayed list of postponement options includes an additional option to inhibit display of the electronic message at the computing device, but to enable display of the electronic message at a user-specified second computing device distinct from the computing device.
</claims>
</document>
