<document>

<filing_date>
2016-11-30
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-06-30
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-30
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
CISCO TECHNOLOGY
</assignee>

<inventors>
GAY, SÉBASTIEN
MERMOUD, GRÉGORY
SARTRAN, LAURENT
VASSEUR, JEAN-PHILIPPE
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62192930
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Estimating feature confidence for online anomaly detection
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a device in a network obtains characteristic data regarding one or more traffic flows in the network. The device incrementally estimates an amount of noise associated with a machine learning feature using bootstrapping. The machine learning feature is derived from the sampled characteristic data. The device applies a filter to the estimated amount of noise associated with the machine learning feature, to determine a value for the machine learning feature. The device identifies a network anomaly that exists in the network by using the determined value for the machine learning feature as input to a machine learning-based anomaly detector. The device causes performance of an anomaly mitigation action based on the identified network anomaly.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: obtaining, by a device in a network, sampled characteristic data regarding one or more traffic flows in the network; deriving a machine learning feature from the sampled characteristic data; incrementally estimating, by the device, an amount of noise corresponding the machine learning feature using a bootstrapping process, wherein characteristic data from the sampled characteristic data for a particular sampling time period is randomly selected to form a plurality of subsets of the characteristic data for the sampling time period; applying, by the device, a filter to the estimated amount of noise corresponding to the machine learning feature, to determine a value for the machine learning feature, wherein applying the filter results in an estimation of a true value of the machine learning feature and a degree of confidence for the machine learning feature; identifying, by the device, a network anomaly that exists in the network by using the determined value for the machine learning feature as input to a machine learning-based anomaly detector; and causing, by the device, performance of an anomaly mitigation action based on the identified network anomaly.
2. The method as in claim 1, wherein the anomaly mitigation action comprises at least one of: dropping the one or more traffic flows or generating a notification regarding the identified network anomaly.
3. The method as in claim 1, wherein the sampled characteristic data comprises at least one of: an application associated with the one or more traffic flows, a protocol used by the one or more traffic flows, a destination of the one or more traffic flows, or a byte size associated with the one or more traffic flows.
4. The method as in claim 1, wherein the filter comprises at least one of: a Kalman filter or a particle filter.
5. The method as in claim 1, wherein incrementally estimating the amount of noise comprises: computing, by the device, a feature value from the plurality of subsets of the characteristic data; and determining, by the device, a standard deviation of the computed feature value over time.
6. The method as in claim 5, further comprising: randomly selecting, by the device, characteristic data from the sampled characteristic data for a plurality of sampling time periods, wherein the feature value is computed based in part on the selected characteristic data for the plurality of sampling time periods.
7. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: communicating, by the device, one or more parameters of the filter to another device in the network.
8. The method as in claim 1, further comprising: receiving, at the device, one or more filter parameters based on filter parameters used by a plurality of other devices in the network.
9. An apparatus, comprising: one or more network interfaces to communicate with a network; a processor coupled to the network interfaces and configured to execute one or more processes; and a memory configured to store a process executable by the processor, the process when executed operable to: obtain sampled characteristic data regarding one or more traffic flows in the network; derive a machine learning feature from the sampled characteristic data; incrementally estimating an amount of noise corresponding to the machine learning feature using a bootstrapping process, wherein characteristic data from the sampled characteristic data for a particular sampling time period is randomly selected to form a plurality of subsets of the characteristic data for the sampling time period; apply a filter to the estimated amount of noise corresponding to the machine learning feature, to determine a value for the machine learning feature, wherein applying the filter results in an estimation of a true value of the machine learning feature and a degree of confidence for the machine learning feature; identify a network anomaly that exists in the network by using the determined value for the machine learning feature as input to a machine learning-based anomaly detector; and cause performance of an anomaly mitigation action based on the identified network anomaly.
10. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the anomaly mitigation action comprises at least one of: dropping the one or more traffic flows or generating a notification regarding the identified network anomaly.
11. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the sampled characteristic data comprises at least one of: an application associated with the one or more traffic flows, a protocol used by the one or more traffic flows, a destination of the one or more traffic flows, or a byte size associated with the one or more traffic flows.
12. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the filter comprises at least one of: a Kalman filter or a particle filter.
13. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the apparatus incrementally estimates the amount of noise by: computing a feature value from the plurality of subsets of the characteristic data; and determining a standard deviation of the computed feature value over time.
14. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further operable to: randomly select data from the sampled characteristic data for a plurality of sampling time periods, wherein the feature value is computed based in part on the selected characteristic data for the plurality of sampling time periods.
15. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further operable to: communicate one or more parameters of the filter to another device in the network.
16. The apparatus as in claim 9, wherein the process when executed is further operable to: receive one or more filter parameters based on filter parameters used by a plurality of other devices in the network.
17. A non-transitory computer-readable media having software encoded thereon, the software when executed by a device in a network operable to: obtain sampled characteristic data regarding one or more traffic flows in the network; derive a machine learning feature from the sampled characteristic data; incrementally estimate an amount of noise corresponding to a machine learning feature using a bootstrapping process, wherein characteristic data from the sampled characteristic data for a particular sampling time period is randomly selected to form a plurality of subsets of the characteristic data for the sampling time period; apply a filter to the estimated amount of noise corresponding to the machine learning feature, to determine a value for the machine learning feature, wherein applying the filter results in an estimation of a true value of the machine learning feature and a degree of confidence for the machine learning feature; identify a network anomaly that exists in the network by using the determined value for the machine learning feature as input to a machine learning-based anomaly detector; and cause performance of an anomaly mitigation action based on the identified network anomaly.
18. The computer-readable media as in claim 17, wherein the anomaly mitigation action comprises at least one of: dropping the one or more traffic flows or generating a notification regarding the identified network anomaly.
19. The computer-readable media as in claim 17, wherein the device incrementally estimates the amount of noise by: computing a feature value from the plurality of subsets of the characteristic data; and determining a standard deviation of the computed feature value over time.
20. The computer-readable media as in claim 19, wherein the software when executed by the device is further operable to: randomly select, by the device, characteristic data from the sampled characteristic data for a plurality of sampling time periods, wherein the feature value is computed based in part on the selected characteristic data for the plurality of sampling time periods.
</claims>
</document>
