<document>

<filing_date>
2018-10-11
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-10-11
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N21/231,H04N21/2368,H04N21/258,H04N21/2668
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
FACEBOOK
</assignee>

<inventors>
MARRA, CHRISTOPHER JOHN
Cassal, Andre
Anciaux, Emily
Liu, Zuli
Liu, Haoran
Saisi, Peter
Xu, Zhiyao
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
72425663
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Video creation at scale
</title>

<abstract>
In one embodiment, a method includes accessing data of a number of items from a third-party computing system; identifying a subset of the number of items based on a value of a ranking model for each identified item being higher than a pre-determined threshold value; for each identified item of the subset, determining a number of similar items from the number of items; receiving a template for a video from the third-party computing system; for each of the identified items, generating a video incorporating the identified item and the respective number of similar items in accordance with the template; caching the generated videos; and providing for display on a client device of a user, a particular one of the videos selected based on information of the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method comprising: by one or more computing devices, accessing data of a plurality of items from a third-party computing system; by the one or more computing devices, identifying a subset of the plurality of items based on a value of a ranking model for each identified item being higher than a pre-determined threshold value; by the one or more computing devices, for each identified item of the subset, determining a grouping of a number of items from the plurality of items that are similar to the identified item; by the one or more computing devices, receiving a template for video creation from the third-party computing system; by the one or more computing devices, for each of the identified items, automatically creating a new video by combining (1) the identified item and (2) the respective number of grouped items that are similar to the identified item in accordance with the template received from the third-party computing system; by the one or more computing devices, caching the created videos; and by the one or more computing devices, providing for display on a client device of a user, a particular one of the videos selected based on information of the user.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the ranking model is based on information of a plurality of user types.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein creating the new video comprises creating a video for each of the plurality of user types.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on a value of an affinity coefficient between the user and an item of the particular one of the videos.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on an event that the user has indicated interest in, social graph connections of the user has indicated interest in, the user has signed up for, or the user has purchased admission.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on recent interactions of the user.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein determining the grouping of the number of items from the plurality of items is based on a similarity ranking.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the template comprises a format type of the new video, a uniform resource locator (URL) associated with the identified item, a type of transition between images, one or more calls-to-action (CTA) buttons, a type of font, one or more logos, or background color.
9. The method of claim 1, further comprising updating one or more of the videos in response to receiving updated information of a respective identified item.
10. The method of claim 1, further comprising: identifying one or more items of the plurality of items without an associated video; and creating a video for each identified item without the associated video in accordance with the template, wherein the video incorporates identified item without the associated video and a pre-determined number of grouped items that are similar to the identified item.
11. One or more computer-readable non-transitory storage media embodying software that is operable when executed to: access data of a plurality of items from a third-party computing system; identify a subset of the plurality of items based on a value of a ranking model for each identified item being higher than a pre-determined threshold value; for each identified item of the subset, determine a grouping of a number of items from the plurality of items that are similar to the identified item; receive a template for video creation from the third-party computing system; for each of the identified items, automatically create a new video by combining (1) the identified item and (2) the respective number of grouped items that are similar to the identified item in accordance with the template received from the third-party computing system; cache the created videos; and provide for display on a client device of a user, a particular one of the videos selected based on information of the user.
12. The media of claim 11, wherein the ranking model is based on information of a plurality of user types.
13. The media of claim 12, wherein software is further operable to create a video for each of the plurality of user types.
14. The media of claim 11, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on a value of an affinity coefficient between the user and an item of the particular one of the videos.
15. The media of claim 11, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on an event that the user has indicated interest in, social graph connections of the user has indicated interest in, the user has signed up for, or the user has purchased admission.
16. A system comprising: one or more processors; and a memory coupled to the processors comprising instructions executable by the processors, the processors being operable when executing the instructions to: access data of a plurality of items from a third-party computing system; identify a subset of the plurality of items based on a value of a ranking model for each identified item being higher than a pre-determined threshold value; for each identified item of the subset, determine a grouping of a number of items from the plurality of items that are similar to the identified item; receive a template for video creation from the third-party computing system; for each of the identified items, automatically create a new video by combining (1) the identified item and (2) the respective number of grouped items that are similar to the identified item in accordance with the template received from the third-party computing system; cache the created videos; and provide for display on a client device of a user, a particular one of the videos selected based on information of the user.
17. The system of claim 16, wherein the ranking model is based on information of a plurality of user types.
18. The system of claim 17, wherein processors are further operable to create a video for each of the plurality of user types.
19. The system of claim 16, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on a value of an affinity coefficient between the user and an item of the particular one of the videos.
20. The system of claim 16, wherein the particular one of the videos is selected based on an event that the user has indicated interest in, social graph connections of the user has indicated interest in, the user has signed up for, or the user has purchased admission.
</claims>
</document>
