<document>

<filing_date>
2016-12-19
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-08
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-12-19
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G01B21/00,G01P13/00,G04G21/00,G06F1/00,G06F1/16,H04B1/00,H04B1/3827
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
HUAMI
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, JUN
MUNARETTO, JOSEPH
HOQUE, ENAMUL
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62561512
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Determine wearing position of a wearable device
</title>

<abstract>
Method, apparatus and system for determining a wearing position of a wearable device. The method includes receiving motion data from a wearable device associated with an individual, wherein the motion data comprises a first data segment and a second data segment, the first data segment associated with walking, and the second data segment associated with non-walking. The method further includes determining first characteristic data associated with the first data segment and second characteristic data associated with the second data segment. The method further includes determining, by a computing device, a wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and a match between the second characteristic data and an activity signature associated with a time of day.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for determining a wearing position of a wearable device, comprising: receiving motion data from the wearable device associated with an individual, wherein the motion data comprises a first data segment associated with a first activity performed using both hands of the individual and a second data segment associated with a second activity, the second activity being associated with a dominant hand of the individual, wherein the first data segment is indicative of first activities performed with both a dominant side and a non-dominant side of the individual at a same time, and wherein the second data segment is indicative of second activities performed using only the dominant side of the individual; determining first characteristic data associated with the first data segment and second characteristic data associated with the second data segment; and determining, by a computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and a match between the second characteristic data and an activity signature associated with a time of day, wherein the wearing position indicates at least one of whether the individual is wearing the wearable device on the dominant side or the non-dominant side of the individual, whether the individual is wearing the wearable device on a left or a right side of the individual, or whether the individual is left-handed or right-handed.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein determining, by the computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day comprises: determining whether the wearable device is worn on the dominant side or the non-dominant side of the individual based on the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the first activity is walking, the second activity is non-walking, the first data segment is indicated by a step count at or above a predetermined threshold, and the second data segment is indicated by the step count falling below the predetermined threshold.
4. The method of claim 1, further comprising: determining, by the computing device, an indication of whether the wearable device is worn on the left or the right side of the individual based on the first characteristic data.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the first characteristic data associated with the first data segment comprises feature data indicative of axial movement of the wearable device.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the wearable device comprises a motion sensor comprising at least one of: an accelerometer, a gyroscope, an inertia measurement unit (IMU) sensor, and a magnetometer; and wherein the motion data comprises measurement data from the motion sensor.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity signature is associated with an activity frequently performed using the dominant side of a human body during the time of day, and the time of day comprises one or more time periods associated with a day.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the activity signature comprises temporal characteristics of the motion data learned from daily activities performed by multiple individuals.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the computing device and the wearable device are a same device.
10. The method of claim 4, wherein determining, by the computing device, the indication of whether the wearable device is worn on the left or the right side of the individual based on the first characteristic data further comprises: comparing the first characteristic data with predetermined orientation data associated with the wearable device.
11. The method of claim 4, wherein determining, by the computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day comprises: determining whether the individual is left-handed or right-handed based on the indication of whether the wearable device is worn on the left or the right side of the individual and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day.
12. A method for determining a wearing position of a wearable device, comprising: receiving motion data from the wearable device associated with an individual, wherein the motion data comprises a first data segment and a second data segment, the first data segment associated with walking, and the second data segment associated with non-walking, wherein the first data segment associated with walking are indicative of first activities performed with both a dominant hand and a non-dominant hand of the individual at a same time, and wherein the second data segment associated with non-walking are indicative of second activities performed using only the dominant hand of the individual; determining first characteristic data associated with the first data segment and second characteristic data associated with the second data segment; and determining, by a computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and a match between the second characteristic data and an activity signature associated with a time of day.
13. The method of claim 12, wherein the wearing position indicates at least one of whether the individual is wearing the wearable device on the dominant hand or the non-dominant hand of the individual, whether the individual is wearing the wearable device on a left or a right side of the individual, or whether the individual is left-handed or right-handed.
14. A method for determining a wearing position of a wearable device, comprising: receiving motion data from the wearable device associated with an individual, wherein the motion data comprises a first data segment and a second data segment, wherein the first data segment being associated with a first activity performed using a dominant side and a non-dominant side of the individual at a same time, wherein the second data segment being associated with a second activity, the second activity being associated with a dominant hand of the individual, and performed using both hands of the individual, and wherein the second data segment are indicative of second activities performed using only the dominant side of the individual; determining first characteristic data associated with the first data segment and second characteristic data associated with the second data segment; and determining, by a computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and a match between the second characteristic data and an activity signature associated with a time of day, wherein the wearing position indicates whether the individual is left-handed or right-handed.
15. The method of claim 14, wherein determining, by the computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day comprises: determining whether the wearable device is worn on the dominant side or the non-dominant side of the individual based on the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day.
16. The method of claim 14, wherein the first data segment is indicated by a step count at or above a predetermined threshold, and the second data segment is indicated by the step count falling below the predetermined threshold.
17. The method of claim 14, further comprising: determining, by the computing device, an indication of whether the wearable device is worn on the left or the right side of the individual based on the first characteristic data.
18. The method of claim 14, wherein the activity signature is associated with an activity frequently performed using the dominant side of a human body during the time of day, and the time of day comprises one or more time periods associated with a day.
19. The method of claim 14, wherein the activity signature comprises temporal characteristics of the motion data learned from daily activities performed by multiple individuals.
20. The method of claim 17, wherein determining, by the computing device, the wearing position of the wearable device associated with the individual based on the first characteristic data and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day comprises: determining whether the individual is left-handed or right-handed based on the indication of whether the wearable device is worn on the left or the right side of the individual and the match between the second characteristic data and the activity signature associated with the time of day.
</claims>
</document>
