<document>

<filing_date>
2018-11-02
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-09-15
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-11-02
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F3/01,G06F3/041,G06N20/00,G06N5/04
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IMMERSION CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
SABOUNE, JAMAL
MAALOUF, JOHNNY
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68426233
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Systems and methods for providing customizable haptic playback
</title>

<abstract>
One illustrative system disclosed herein includes a computing device that comprises a memory and a processor in communication with the memory. The processor can generate content that can be provided to a user. The processor can obtain data indicating various haptic tracks associated with various content elements in the content. The processor can determine a selection of a haptic track of the various haptic tracks associated with a particular content element of the various content elements. The processor can determine a characteristic of the haptic track and then transmit a haptic signal associated with the haptic track to a haptic output device, which can receive the haptic signal and output the haptic track.
</abstract>

<claims>
That which is claimed is:
1. A system comprising: a non-transitory computer-readable medium; and a processor communicatively coupled to the non-transitory computer-readable medium, wherein the processor is configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: obtain content to be provided to a user; obtain data identifying a plurality of haptic tracks associated with a plurality of content elements of the content; cause an output device to play a portion of the content; determine a selection of a content element of the plurality of content elements in the portion of the content; in response to a determination of the selection of the content element and while the output device plays the portion of the content: identify a haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks, the haptic track associated with the content element; determine one or more haptic effects based on the haptic track; transmit one or more haptic signals to a haptic output device, the one or more haptic signals configured to cause the haptic output device to output the one or more haptic effects corresponding to the content element in the portion of the content.
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to modify a characteristic of the one or more haptic effects.
3. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to identify the haptic track by: outputting, via a graphical user interface, data indicating the plurality of haptic tracks associated with a plurality of content elements in the content; and receiving, via the graphical user interface, the selection of the haptic track.
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to identify of the haptic track by: determining a distance between the user and the content element in a simulated reality environment; and wherein identifying the haptic track is based on the distance between the user and the content element.
5. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is further configured to determine the selection of the content element by: receiving one or more signals from the sensor; and in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the content element based on the one or more signals, selecting the content element.
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to determine the selection of the content element by: in response to determining that the user is pointing at the content element of the plurality of content elements, selecting the content element.
7. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a touch surface; a sensor communicatively coupled to the processor and the touch surface, the sensor configured to: detect a pressure associated with a contact on the touch surface; and transmit one or more signals associated with the pressure, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: receive, from the sensor, the signal associated with the pressure; determine an amount of pressure based on the one or more signals; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the amount of pressure.
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to: determine a distance between the user and the content element; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the distance.
9. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: receive one or more signals from the sensor; determine a movement of the user based on the one or more signals; and determine a characteristic of the haptic track based on the movement of the user.
10. The system of claim 1, further comprising: a sensor communicatively coupled to the processor, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: receive one or more signals from the sensor; and in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the content element associated with the haptic track based on the one or more signals, determine a characteristic of the haptic track.
11. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to: use a machine-learning technique to predict a second haptic track based on the identification of the haptic track; and output a recommendation of the second haptic track.
12. The system of claim 11, wherein the processor is further configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to use the machine-learning technique to predict the second haptic track by: comparing, using the machine-learning technique, the haptic track and one or more other haptic tracks of the plurality of haptic tracks to determine a similarity between the haptic track and the second haptic track; and predicting, using the machine-learning technique, the second haptic track based on the similarity between the haptic track and the second haptic track.
13. A method comprising: obtaining content to be provided to a user; obtaining data identifying a plurality of haptic tracks associated with a plurality of content elements of the content; playing, using an output device, a portion of the content; determining a selection of a content element of the plurality of content elements in the portion of the content; in response to determining the selection of the content element and while the output device plays the portion of the content: identifying a haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks, the haptic track associated with the content element; determining a haptic effect based on the haptic track; determining a characteristic of the haptic effect; transmitting one or more haptic signals to a haptic output device, the one or more haptic signals configured to cause the haptic output device to output the haptic effect based on the characteristic and corresponding to the content element in the portion of the content.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising modifying a characteristic of the haptic effect.
15. The method of claim 13, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises: outputting data indicating the plurality of haptic tracks associated with the plurality of content elements in the content; and receiving the selection of the haptic track.
16. The method of claim 13, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises: determining a distance between the user and the content element; and selecting the haptic track of the plurality of haptic tracks based on the distance.
17. The method of claim 13, wherein identifying the haptic track comprises: receiving a sensor signal from a sensor; and in response to determining that a gaze of the user is directed toward the content element based on the sensor signal, identifying the haptic track associated with the content element.
18. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the characteristic of the haptic track comprises: receiving a sensor signal from a sensor, the sensor signal indicating a pressure associated with a contact on a touch surface of a computing device; determining an amount of pressure based on the sensor signal; and determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the amount of pressure.
19. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the characteristic of the haptic track comprises: determining a distance between the user and the content element; and determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the distance.
20. The method of claim 13, wherein determining the characteristic of the haptic track comprises: receiving a sensor signal from a sensor, the sensor signal indicating a movement of the user; and determining the characteristic of the haptic track based on the movement of the user.
21. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to emphasize the one or more haptic effects based on the selection of the content element.
22. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to deemphasize one or more haptic tracks of the plurality of haptic tracks based on the selection of the content element.
23. The system of claim 1, wherein the processor is configured to execute processor-executable instructions stored in the non-transitory computer-readable medium to disable one or more haptic tracks of the plurality of haptic tracks associated with content elements other than the content element based on the selection of the content element.
</claims>
</document>
