<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2016-11-29
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F11/07,G06F11/14,G06F11/30,G06F11/34,G06F12/02,G06F12/06,G06F13/16,G06F15/80,G06F16/174,G06F21/57,G06F21/62,G06F21/73,G06F21/76,G06F3/06,G06F7/06,G06F8/65,G06F8/654,G06F8/656,G06F8/658,G06F9/38,G06F9/44,G06F9/4401,G06F9/445,G06F9/48,G06F9/50,G06F9/54,G06T1/20,G06T1/60,G06T9/00,H01R13/453,H01R13/631,H03K19/173,H03M7/30,H03M7/40,H03M7/42,H04L12/24,H04L12/26,H04L12/28,H04L12/46,H04L12/813,H04L12/851,H04L12/911,H04L12/933,H04L29/06,H04L29/08,H04L29/12,H04L9/08,H05K7/14
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTEL CORPORATION
</assignee>

<inventors>
KUMAR MOHAN J.
NACHIMUTHU, MURUGASAMY K.
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
62190163
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Technologies for lifecycle management with remote firmware
</title>

<abstract>
Technologies for lifecycle management include multiple computing devices in communication with a lifecycle management server. On boot, a computing device loads a lightweight firmware boot environment. The lightweight firmware boot environment connects to the lifecycle management server and downloads one or more firmware images for controllers of the computing device. The controllers may include baseboard management controllers, network interface controllers, solid-state drive controllers, or other controllers. The lifecycle management server may select firmware images and/or versions of firmware images based on the controllers or the computing device. The computing device installs each firmware image to a controller memory device coupled to a controller, and in use, each controller accesses the firmware image in the controller memory device. The controller memory device may be a DRAM device or a high-performance byte-addressable non-volatile memory. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device for device lifecycle management, the computing device comprising: a first controller coupled to a first controller memory; one or more processors; and one or more memory devices having stored therein a plurality of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, cause the computing device to: load a boot environment in response to a start of a boot process of the computing device; connect, by the boot environment, to a lifecycle management server via a network connection in response to loading of the boot environment; download, by the boot environment, a first firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; and install, by the boot environment, the first firmware image to the first controller memory; wherein the first controller is to access the first firmware image in the first controller memory in response to installation of the first firmware image; and wherein the one or more memory devices have stored therein a plurality of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computing device to continue the boot process of the computing device in response to the installation of the first firmware image.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first controller memory comprises a random access volatile memory.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first controller memory comprises a byte addressable non-volatile memory.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first controller comprises a baseboard management controller, a manageability controller, a storage device controller, or a network interface controller.
5. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first controller comprises a field-programmable gate array and the first firmware image comprises a bitstream image.
6. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the first firmware image comprises a platform firmware of the computing device.
7. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising a flash memory device, wherein to load the boot environment comprises to load the boot environment from the flash memory device.
8. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the one or more memory devices have stored therein a plurality of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computing device to: download, by the boot environment, configuration data from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; and install, by the boot environment, the configuration data in response to downloading of the configuration data; wherein to continue the boot process comprises to continue the boot process in response to installation of the configuration data.
9. The computing device of claim 8, wherein the configuration data comprises a firmware variable.
10. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising: a second controller coupled to a second controller memory; wherein the one or more memory devices have stored therein a plurality of instructions that, when executed by the one or more processors, further cause the computing device to: (i) download, by the boot environment, a second firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection and (ii) install, by the boot environment, the second firmware image to the second controller memory; and wherein the second controller is to access the second firmware image in the second controller memory in response to installation of the second firmware image.
11. One or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that, in response to being executed, cause a computing device to: load a boot environment in response to a start of a boot process of the computing device; connect, by the boot environment, to a lifecycle management server via a network connection in response to loading the boot environment; download, by the boot environment, a first firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; install, by the boot environment, the first firmware image to a first controller memory coupled to a first controller of the computing device; access, by the first controller, the first firmware image in the first controller memory in response to installing the first firmware image; and continue the boot process of the computing device in response to installing the first firmware image.
12. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the first controller memory comprises a random access volatile memory.
13. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the first controller memory comprises a byte addressable non-volatile memory.
14. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the first controller comprises a baseboard management controller, a manageability controller, a storage device controller, or a network interface controller.
15. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the first controller comprises a field-programmable gate array and the first firmware image comprises a bitstream image.
16. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein the first firmware image comprises a platform firmware of the computing device.
17. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, wherein to load the boot environment comprises to load the boot environment from a flash memory device of the computing device.
18. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that, in response to being executed, cause the computing device to: download, by the boot environment, configuration data from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; and install, by the boot environment, the configuration data in response to downloading the configuration data; wherein to continue the boot process comprises to continue the boot process in response to installing the configuration data.
19. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 18, wherein to download the configuration data comprises to download a firmware variable.
20. The one or more non-transitory, computer-readable storage media of claim 11, further comprising a plurality of instructions stored thereon that, in response to being executed, cause the computing device to: download, by the boot environment, a second firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; install, by the boot environment, the second firmware image to a second controller memory coupled to a second controller of the computing device; and access, by the second controller, the second firmware image in the second controller memory in response to installing the second firmware image.
21. A computing device for device lifecycle management, the computing device comprising: means for loading a boot environment in response to a start of a boot process of the computing device; circuitry for connecting, by the boot environment, to a lifecycle management server via a network connection in response to loading the boot environment; circuitry for downloading, by the boot environment, a first firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; means for installing, by the boot environment, the first firmware image to a first controller memory coupled to a first controller of the computing device; means for accessing, by the first controller, the first firmware image in the first controller memory in response to installing the first firmware image; and circuitry for continuing the boot process of the computing device in response to installing the first firmware image.
22. A method for device lifecycle management, the method comprising: loading, by a computing device, a boot environment in response to a start of a boot process of the computing device; connecting, by the boot environment, to a lifecycle management server via a network connection in response to loading the boot environment; downloading, by the boot environment, a first firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; installing, by the boot environment, the first firmware image to a first controller memory coupled to a first controller of the computing device; accessing, by the first controller, the first firmware image in the first controller memory in response to installing the first firmware image; and continuing, by the computing device, the boot process of the computing device in response to installing the first firmware image.
23. The method of claim 22, wherein the first firmware image comprises a platform firmware of the computing device.
24. The method of claim 22, further comprising: downloading, by the boot environment, configuration data from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; and installing, by the boot environment, the configuration data in response to downloading the configuration data; wherein continuing the boot process comprises continuing to boot process in response to installing the configuration data.
25. The method of claim 22, further comprising: downloading, by the boot environment, a second firmware image from the lifecycle management server via the network connection; installing, by the boot environment, the second firmware image to a second controller memory coupled to a second controller of the computing device; and accessing, by the second controller, the second firmware image in the second controller memory in response to installing the second firmware image.
</claims>
</document>
