<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-09
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-03
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-06-05
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G05B15/02,G05D23/19,G08B19/00,G08B21/04,G08B25/14,G10L15/20,G10L17/22
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
WISE SPACES
</assignee>

<inventors>
OVADIA, YEHUDA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
53276794
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Home automation control system
</title>

<abstract>
Various automation units for a premises include a sensor, at least two resolvers, and a plurality of models of the data of the sensor. Each resolver has its associated models which define how the resolver uses the data of the sensor. The various resolvers are an alarm resolver, a presence resolver, a climate resolver and a voice resolver. Other automation units are cognitive or proactive, and include a data base to store at least recorded events per controlled equipment, an event analyzer to analyze recorded events to find patterns of activation of the equipment, and either a cognitive module to modify the associated scenario of a piece of equipment if the patterns do not match the scenario or a proactive module to create a new scenario for a piece of equipment based on the analysis.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. An automation unit for a premises, the automation unit comprising: an acoustic sensor for sensing sound in at least one room of said premises, at least a voice resolver and one of the following resolvers to receive an acoustic signal from said acoustic sensor: an alarm resolver, and a presence resolver, wherein each resolver has its associated models and said associated models comprise: at least one acoustic model of human sounds and at least one model of pet sounds for said presence resolver to match to said acoustic signal; at least one acoustic model of unusual sounds as defined by its duration, amplitude and frequencies for said alarm resolver to match to said acoustic signal; and at least one voice acoustic model at least of human voice sounds for said voice resolver to match to said acoustic signal; and wherein said voice resolver comprises: a voice recognition engine operative on said acoustic signal to generate a voice instruction; a noise detection and cancellation module operative on said acoustic signal; said voice recognition engine to recognize voice in the output of said noise detection and cancellation module; a noise model scorer to match received audio data against at least two noise models to determine the type or types of noise in said acoustic signal; and a recognition analyzer to analyze the quality of the output of said recognition engine as a function of the operation of said noise detection and cancellation module according to the type or types of noise detected.
2. The unit according to claim 1 and wherein at least one of said resolvers comprises a cognitive unit to learn at least from data from said acoustic sensor and to modify parameters of operation of said at least one of said resolvers.
3. An automation unit for a premises, the automation unit comprising: a CO2 sensor for sensing a CO2 level in at least one room of said premises, at least two resolvers of the following resolvers to receive a CO2 signal from said CO2 sensor: an alarm resolver, a presence resolver and a climate resolver, wherein each resolver has its associated models and said associated models comprise: at least one model of a change of CO2 levels for said presence resolver to match to said CO2 signal; at least one model of a different change of CO2 levels for said alarm resolver to match to said CO2 signal; at least one model of a range of CO2 levels for said climate resolver to match to said CO2 signal.
4. The unit according to claim 3 and wherein at least one of said resolvers comprises a cognitive unit to learn at least from data from said CO2 sensor and to modify parameters of operation of said at least one of said resolvers.
5. An automation unit for a premises, the automation unit comprising: an image sensor for imaging at least one room of said premises, a movement sensor for detecting movement in at least one room of said premises; an alarm resolver and a presence resolver to receive an image signal from said image sensor and to receive a movement signal from said movement sensor; at least one image model of a human and at least one image model of a pet for said resolvers to match to said image signal to determine if a mammal or a human is present in said at least one room; and at least one movement model having multiple sectors, wherein said sectors are defined according to height above the floor of said at least one room, for said resolvers to match to said movement signal to determine if a mammal or a human is present in said at least one room.
6. The automation unit according to claim 5 and wherein at least one of said resolvers comprises a unit to change the operation of said at least one of said resolvers as a function of light conditions.
7. The unit according to claim 5 and wherein at least one of said resolvers comprises a cognitive unit to learn from at least from data from at least one of said image sensor and said movement sensor and to modify parameters of operation of said at least one of said resolvers.
8. A cognitive automation unit for controlling and/or monitoring one or more pieces of equipment in at least one room in a premises responsive to said processing, the cognitive automation unit comprising: at least one resolver activating said pieces of equipment in response to at least one sensor; an event resolver to control said pieces of equipment at least in response to events, wherein said event resolver comprises: a data base to store at least recorded events per controlled equipment with at least its time of occurrence and an indication of whether or not the event was a scenario-generated event from a pre-determined scenario defining which piece or pieces of equipment to operate; an event analyzer to analyze recorded events of a controlled piece of equipment to find patterns of activation of said equipment within time intervals; and a cognitive module to analyze said patterns and to modify said associated scenario for at least one piece of equipment if said patterns do not match said scenario.
9. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8 and wherein said at least one resolver comprises a cognitive unit to learn from at least data from said at least one sensor and to modify parameters of operation of said at least one resolver.
10. The cognitive automation unit of claim 8 wherein said event resolver comprises an orienting element to determine a priority for responding, wherein said priority is at least normal, immediate and urgent.
11. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8 and also comprising a communication unit to communicate with at least one other automation unit in said premises for controlling and/or monitoring said at least one piece of equipment.
12. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8 and also comprising a communication unit to communicate with at least one other cognitive automation unit in said premises.
13. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8, wherein said at least one resolver is one of the following resolvers: an alarm resolver, a presence resolver, a climate resolver and a voice resolver.
14. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8 and wherein said at least one sensor is one or more of the following: a movement sensor for detecting movement of a mammal in the at least one room; an acoustic sensor for sensing sound in the at least one room; a thermometer for sensing an ambient temperature in the at least one room; a light sensor for sensing a level of illumination in the at least one room; a humidity sensor for sensing a humidity level in the at least one room; a CO2 sensor for sensing a CO2 level in the at least one room; and an image sensor for imaging the at least one room.
15. The cognitive automation unit according to claim 8 and wherein said at least one resolver is an alarm resolver, a presence resolver, a climate resolver and a voice resolver and said at least one sensor is: a movement sensor for detecting movement of a mammal in the at least one room; an acoustic sensor for sensing sound in the at least one room; a thermometer for sensing an ambient temperature in the at least one room; a light sensor for sensing a level of illumination in the at least one room; a humidity sensor for sensing a humidity level in the at least one room; a CO2 sensor for sensing a CO2 level in the at least one room; and an image sensor for imaging the at least one room wherein said alarm resolver is connected to said movement sensor, said acoustic sensor, said light sensor, said CO2 sensor, and said image sensor, wherein said presence resolver is connected to said movement sensor, said acoustic sensor, said light sensor, said CO2 sensor, and said image sensor; wherein said climate resolver is connected to said thermometer, said humidity sensor and said CO2 sensor; and wherein said voice resolver is connected to said acoustic sensor.
16. A proactive automation unit controlling and/or monitoring one or more pieces of equipment in at least one room in a premises responsive to said processing, the proactive automation unit comprising: at least one resolver activating said pieces of equipment in response to said at least one sensor; and an event resolver to control said pieces of equipment at least in response to events, wherein said event resolver comprises: a data base to store at least recorded events per controlled equipment with at least its time of occurrence and an indication of whether or not the event was a scenario-generated event from a pre-determined scenario defining which piece or pieces of equipment to operate; an event analyzer to analyze recorded events of a controlled piece of equipment to find patterns of activation of said equipment within time intervals; and a proactive module to analyze said patterns and to create at least one new scenario for at least one piece of equipment based on said analysis.
17. The proactive automation unit according to claim 16 and also comprising a communication unit to communicate with at least one other automation unit in said premises for controlling and/or monitoring said at least one piece of equipment.
18. The proactive automation unit according to claim 16 and also comprising a communication unit to communicate with at least one other proactive automation unit in said premises.
19. The proactive automation unit according to claim 16, wherein said at least one resolver is one of the following resolvers: an alarm resolver, a presence resolver, a climate resolver and a voice resolver.
20. The proactive automation unit according to claim 16 and wherein said at least one sensor is one or more of the following: a movement sensor for detecting movement of a mammal in the at least one room; an acoustic sensor for sensing sound in the at least one room; a thermometer for sensing an ambient temperature in the at least one room; a light sensor for sensing a level of illumination in the at least one room; a humidity sensor for sensing a humidity level in the at least one room; a CO2 sensor for sensing a CO2 level in the at least one room; and an image sensor for imaging the at least one room.
21. An alarm system protecting a predefined space, the alarm system comprising: an acoustic sensor to sense sound at least in said space and at least one acoustic model of unusual sounds as defined by its duration, amplitude and frequencies; a movement sensor to detect movement in said space and at least one movement model having multiple sectors, wherein said sectors are defined according to a height above a floor; an image sensor for imaging at said space, at least one image model of a human; a clock and a time model indicating hours of normal operation of said premises; and an alarm resolver to receive the output of said sensors and said models wherein said alarm resolver comprises a multifunctional processor to compare said models to said their associated sensor output and to calculate together weighted versions of said comparisons to determine if said space has been invalidly entered and to activate an alarm and/or other equipment in said premises when said determination is positive.
22. The alarm system according to claim 21 and wherein said alarm resolver comprises a cognitive unit to learn from at least its sensor data and to modify parameters of operation of said alarm resolver.
23. A first automation unit and at least one second automation unit for controlling and/or monitoring two or more pieces of equipment in a premises, to form, when implemented in said premises, a distributed control system, the first automation unit comprising: a first, local database to store at least data from sensors and controlled equipment controlled by said first unit and at least events and/or scenarios determined by said first unit and/or pre-defined scenarios to control equipment; at least one second database to store at least data from sensors and controlled equipment controlled by said at least one second unit and events and/or scenarios determined by controller of said at least one second unit and/or scenarios; a controller, forming part of said distributed system to analyze data in said first local database for activating equipment and to use data in said at least one second database for activating equipment controlled by said at least one second unit; and a communication module to communicate at least said first local database with said at least one second unit and to receive at least said second database from said second unit.
24. The units of claim 23 wherein said controller comprises at least one resolver of the following resolvers: an alarm resolver, a presence resolver, a climate resolver and a voice resolver.
25. The units of claim 23 and wherein said controller comprises: an event resolver to analyze recorded data within one of said databases related to activation of equipment; and at least one of the following units: a cognitive module to analyze said analyzed data and to modify an associated scenario; and a proactive module to analyze said analyzed data and to create at least one new scenario for at least one piece of equipment.
26. A method for controlling and/or monitoring one or more pieces of equipment in at least one room in a premises, the method comprising: activating said pieces of equipment in response to at least one sensor; controlling said pieces of equipment at least in response to events, wherein said controlling comprises: storing at least recorded events per controlled equipment with at least its time of occurrence and an indication of whether or not the event was a scenario-generated event from a pre-determined scenario defining which piece or pieces of equipment to operate; analyzing recorded events of a controlled piece of equipment to find patterns of activation of said equipment within time intervals; and analyzing said patterns to modify said associated scenario for at least one piece of equipment if said patterns do not match said scenario.
27. The method according to claim 26 and wherein activating comprises learning from at least data from said at least one sensor and modifying parameters of operation of said activating.
28. The method according to claim 26 wherein said controlling comprises determining a priority for responding, wherein said priority is at least normal, immediate and urgent.
29. The method according to claim 26 also comprising communicating with an automation unit in said premises also performing said method.
30. A method for controlling and/or monitoring one or more pieces of equipment in at least one room in a premises responsive to said processing, the method comprising: activating said pieces of equipment in response to said at least one sensor; and controlling said pieces of equipment at least in response to events, wherein said controlling comprises: storing at least recorded events per controlled equipment with at least its time of occurrence and an indication of whether or not the event was a scenario-generated event from a pre-determined scenario defining which piece or pieces of equipment to operate; analyzing recorded events of a controlled piece of equipment to find patterns of activation of said equipment within time intervals; and proactively analyzing said patterns to create at least one new scenario for at least one piece of equipment based on said analysis.
31. The method according to claim 30 also comprising communicating with an automation unit in said premises also performing said method.
32. A method for a first automation unit and at least one second automation unit for controlling and/or monitoring two or more pieces of equipment in a premises, to form, when implemented in said premises, a distributed control system, the method comprising: storing in a first, local database to store at least data from sensors and controlled equipment controlled by said first unit and at least events and/or scenarios determined by said first unit and/or pre-defined scenarios to control equipment; storing in at least one second database to store at least data from sensors and controlled equipment controlled by said at least one second unit and events and/or scenarios determined by controller of said at least one second unit and/or scenarios; analyzing data in said first local database for activating equipment and using data in said at least one second database for activating equipment controlled by said at least one second unit; and communicating at least said first local database with said at least one second unit and receiving at least said second database from said second unit.
33. The method according to claim 32 and wherein said analyzing comprises: analyzing recorded data within one of said databases related to activating said equipment; and at least one of the following steps: analyzing said analyzed data and modifying an associated scenario; and proactively analyzing said analyzed data to create at least one new scenario for at least one piece of equipment.
34. A method for an alarm system protecting a predefined space, the method comprising: having an acoustic sensor to sense sound at least in said space and having at least one acoustic model of unusual sounds as defined by its duration, amplitude and frequencies; having a movement sensor to detect movement in said space and having at least one movement model having multiple sectors, wherein said sectors are defined according to a height above a floor; having an image sensor for imaging at said space and having at least one image model of a human; having a clock and a time model indicating hours of normal operation of said premises; comparing said models to their associated sensor output; calculating together weighted versions of said comparisons to determine if said space has been invalidly entered; and activating an alarm and/or other equipment in said premises when said determination is positive.
35. The method according to claim 34 and also comprising learning from at least data from said sensors and modifying parameters of operation of at least said calculating.
</claims>
</document>
