<document>

<filing_date>
2014-12-01
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-02-25
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2014-12-01
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q40/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
INTUIT
</assignee>

<inventors>
MCCLUSKEY, KEVIN M.
RYAN, KYLE J.
TRITT, SUZETTE
WANG GANG
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
69590811
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Computer implemented methods systems and articles of manufacture for cross-field validation during preparation of electronic tax return
</title>

<abstract>
Computer-implemented methods, systems and articles of manufacture detecting inconsistent electronic tax return data. In a tax return preparation application in which a tax logic agent and user interface controller share a data store, and the tax logic agent including or executing a cross-field validation engine is separate from or loosely coupled to a user interface controller, the tax logic agent reads runtime data of the electronic tax return from the data store, and the validation engine compares runtime data cross-field rule conditions. A cross-field rule having a condition that is not satisfied by the runtime data is identified, and a non-binding suggestion is generated by the tax logic agent and received by the user interface controller, which generates an interview screen concerning the detected inconsistency for display to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computer-implemented method, comprising: reading, from a shared data store, by a logic agent comprising computer-executable instructions of a computerized tax return preparation application executed by a processor of a computer, data of the electronic tax return prepared by the computerized tax return preparation application; accessing, by a validation engine of the logic agent, a plurality of cross-field rules, comparing the data read from the shared data store to conditions of respective cross-field rules, and identifying at least one cross-field rule including at least one condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon the data read from the shared data store; the logic agent generating a non-binding suggestion based at least in part upon the at least one identified cross-field rule and transmitting the non-binding suggestion to a user interface controller; and the user interface controller, receiving the non-binding suggestion from the logic agent, tax logic determinations being executed independently of and before the user interface controller receives the non-binding suggestion, generating a first interview screen involving the at least one identified cross-field rule, the first interview screen being presented to a user through a display of the computer without the user navigating to the first interview screen, receiving an answer provided by the user through the first interview screen and writing the answer to the shared data store to generate updated data, wherein the answer replaces data in the shared data store that caused the at least one condition of the at least one cross-field rule to not be satisfied, and replaced data is maintained in the shared data store as inactive data and is associated with the corresponding updated data in the shared data store.
2. The method of claim 1, the at least one identified cross-field rule specifying conditions involving at least three fields of the electronic tax return.
3. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for the at least one identified cross-field rule involving a first field and a second field of a single interview screen generated by the user interface controller.
4. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for the at least one identified cross-field rule involving a first field of a the first interview screen generated by user interface controller and a second field of a second interview screen generated by the user interface controller different than the first interview screen.
5. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for the at least one identified cross-field rule involving a first field and a second field of a single tax form or worksheet of the electronic tax return.
6. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for the at least one identified cross-field rule involving a first field of a first tax form or worksheet of the electronic tax return and a second field of a second tax form or worksheet of the electronic tax return that is different than the first tax form or worksheet.
7. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for a first field and a second field of the same tax topic.
8. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated for a first field of a first topic and a second field of a second topic that is different than the first topic, the first field being in the first interview screen generated by the user interface controller, and the second field being in a second interview screen generated by the user interface controller.
9. The method of claim 1, the non-binding suggestion being generated based at least in part upon the at least one identified cross-field rule and an inconsistency between data of a first field and data of a second field.
10. The method of claim 9, the inconsistency involving a first numerical value and a second numerical value.
11. The method of claim 9, the inconsistency involving a first field and a selected option of a plurality of options.
12. The method of claim 11, the selected option comprising a box presented within an interview screen generated by the user interface controller and selected or checked by the user.
13. The method of claim 11, the selected option comprising a binary response option selected by the user.
14. The method of claim 9, the inconsistency involving data of a first field of the electronic tax return and an unpopulated second field of the electronic tax return.
15. The method of claim 9, the inconsistency involving first runtime data of a first field of the electronic tax return and a format of data of a second field of the electronic tax return.
16. The method of claim 1, the shared data store comprising respective instance identifiers differentiating a first document or topic that was the subject of the non-binding suggestion and a second document or topic that was not the subject of the non-binding suggestion.
17. The method of claim 1, further comprising the user interface controller: determining how the at least one condition can be satisfied based at least in part upon the non-binding suggestion generated by the logic agent; and automatically writing the shared data store to update the data, the updated data satisfying the at least one condition of the at least one cross-field rule that was previously not satisfied, the updated data written by the user interface controller replacing data that caused the at least one condition of the at least one cross-field rule to not be satisfied.
18. The method of claim 17, further comprising the user interface controller generating an interview screen requesting user confirmation of the updated data that was automatically written to the shared data store by the user interface controller.
19. The method of claim 1, the answer modifying data of a previously populated field of the electronic tax return.
20. The method of claim 1, the user interface controller populating a previously unpopulated field with the answer.
21. The method of claim 1, further comprising; the logic agent reading updated data of the electronic tax return from the shared data store, and the validation engine accessing the plurality of cross-field rules, comparing the updated data and conditions of respective cross-field rules, and determining whether any cross-field rule includes a condition that is not satisfied based at least in part, upon the updated data.
22. The method of claim 1, the inactive data and the active, updated data being associated with each other through a common instance identifier.
23. The method of claim 1, the inactive data and the active, updated data being identified by respective tags indicating respective inactive and active statuses.
24. The method of claim 1, further comprising: the logic agent reading the active, updated data and associated inactive data, the validation engine utilizing the active, updated data, to determine whether any cross-field rule includes at least one condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon the active, updated data, the logic agent generating a second non-binding suggestion involving the active, updated data, and providing the second non-binding suggestion to the user interface controller; and the user interface controller receiving the non-binding suggestion involving the active, updated data generated by the logic agent, and generating a second interview screen indicating that the inactive data was utilized before the active, updated data.
25. The method of claim 1, further comprising the user interface controller: reactivating the inactive data such that when the logic agent next reads the updated runtime data from the shared data store, the updated data includes the reactivated data.
26. The method of claim 1, further comprising the computer receiving through a network and from a computing device of a user executing a browser to access the computerized tax return preparation application, data identifying at least one other cross-field rule including at least one condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon user data provided through the browser.
27. The method of claim 26, the computer receiving data of the at least one other cross-filed rule through the logic agent, the method further comprising the logic agent generating at least one other non-binding suggestion based at least in part upon the at least one other identified cross-field rule; and the user interface controller receiving the at least one other non-binding suggestion generated by the logic agent and generating a second interview screen involving the at least one other identified cross-field rule, the second interview screen being presented to the user through the browser.
28. The method of claim 26, the computer receiving runtime data of the electronic tax return through the user interface controller from the computing device of the user executing the browser, the method further comprising the user interface controller writing the received runtime data to the data store to update the runtime data of the data store, and the logic agent reading the updated data from the data store and executing the validation engine, the validation engine accessing the plurality of cross-field rules, comparing the updated data and conditions of respective cross-field rules, and determining whether any cross-field rule includes a condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon the updated data.
29. A computerized system of a computerized tax return preparation application executable by a computer, the computerized system comprising: a user interface controller, a logic agent in communication with the user interface controller and comprising a cross-field validation engine; and a shared data store in communication with the user interface controller and the logic agent, wherein the user interface controller can write data to the shared data store, and the logic agent can read data from the shared data store, the logic agent being configured or programmed to read, from the shared data store, data of the electronic tax return prepared by the computerized tax return preparation application; the logic agent, by the cross-field validation engine, being programmed or configured to access a plurality of cross-field rules, compare the data read from the shared data store to conditions of respective cross-field rules, and identify at least one cross-field rule including at least one condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon the data read from the shared data store; the logic agent being programmed or configured to generate a non-binding suggestion based at least in part upon the at least one identified cross-field rule, and provide the non-binding suggestion to the user interface controller; and the user interface controller being programmed or configured to receive the non-binding suggestion from the logic agent, tax logic determinations being executed independently of and before the user interface controller receives the non-binding suggestion, generate a first interview screen involving the at least one identified cross-field rule, the first interview screen being presented to a user through a display of the computer without the user navigating to the first interview screen, receiving an answer provided by the user through the first interview′ screen and write the answer to the shared data store to generate updated data, wherein the answer replaces data in the shared data store that caused the at least one condition of the at least one cross-field rule to not be satisfied, and replaced data is maintained in the shared data store as inactive data and is associated with the corresponding updated data in the shared data store.
30. A non-transitory computer-readable medium comprising instructions, which when executed by a processor of a computer, causes the computer to execute a process comprising: a logic agent comprising computer-executable instructions of a computerized tax return preparation application executed by a processor of a computer, reading, from a shared data store, data of the electronic tax return prepared by the computerized tax return preparation application; a validation engine of the logic agent accessing a plurality of cross-field rules, comparing the data read from the shared data store to conditions of respective cross-field rules, and identifying at least one cross-field rale including at least one condition that is not satisfied based at least in part upon the data read from the shared data store the logic agent generating a non-binding suggestion based at least in part upon the at least one identified cross-field rule and transmitting the non-binding suggestion to the user interface controller; the user interface controller receiving the non-binding suggestion from the logic agent, tax logic determinations being executed independently of and before the user interface controller receives the non-binding suggestion, generating a first interview screen involving the at least one identified cross-field rule, the first interview screen being presented to a user through a display of the computer without the user navigating to the first interview screen, receiving an answer provided by the user through the first interview screen and writing the answer to the shared data store to generate updated data, wherein the answer replaces data in the shared data store that caused the at least one condition of the at least one cross-field rule to not be satisfied, and replaced data is maintained in the shared data store as inactive data and is associated with the corresponding updated data in the shared data store.
</claims>
</document>
