<document>

<filing_date>
2019-01-16
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-12-01
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2019-01-16
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06T7/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
APPLIED MATERIAL ISRAEL, LTD.
</assignee>

<inventors>
COHEN, ELAD
SIMAKOV, DENIS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
71516683
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Method of defect detection on a specimen and system thereof
</title>

<abstract>
There are provided a system and method of defect detection on a specimen, the method comprising: performing partitioning for each of one or more portions of a first die; receiving one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on second images captured for one or more portions of a second die; performing segmentation for each noise map in runtime, the segmentation for a given noise map including: calculating a score for each region, the given noise map aligned with the regions and each region is associated with noise data aligned therein, the score for a given region calculated at least based on the noise data associated therewith; and associating each region with one segmentation label of a predefined set of segmentation labels indicative of noise levels based on the score, thereby obtaining a set of segments each corresponding to one or more regions associated with the same segmentation label.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computerized system of defect detection on a specimen, the system comprising: a processing unit operatively connected to an examination tool, the processing unit comprising a memory and a processor operatively coupled thereto, the processing unit configured to: perform partitioning for each portion of one or more portions of a first die of the specimen, wherein the partitioning for a given portion of the one or more portions is performed based on at least one of: i) image data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in image space, and ii) design data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in design space; wherein the processing unit is further configured, in runtime, to: receive, from the examination tool, one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on one or more second images captured for one or more portions of a second die of the specimen, the first die and the second die characterized by same design data; perform segmentation for each of the one or more noise maps, wherein the segmentation for a given noise map of the one or more noise maps is performed by: calculating a score for each region of the plurality of regions, wherein the given noise map is aligned with the plurality of regions and each region thereof is associated with noise data aligned therein, and wherein the score for a given region of the plurality of regions is calculated at least based on the noise data associated therewith; and associating each region with one segmentation label of a predefined set of segmentation labels indicative of different noise levels based on the calculated score, thereby obtaining a set of segments each corresponding to one or more regions associated with the same segmentation label; wherein the set of segments are usable for the defect detection on the specimen based on the given noise map.
2. The computerized system according to claim 1, wherein the partitioning is performed based on the design data, and wherein the plurality of regions in the design space are a plurality of design groups each corresponding to one or more die regions in the given portion having same design pattern.
3. The computerized system according to claim 1, further comprising the examination tool configured to capture the image data including a first image representing the given portion, wherein the partitioning is performed based on the image data, and the plurality of regions in the image space are obtained on the first image based on values of corresponding locations in attribute space specified by a set of attributes characterizing the first image.
4. The computerized system according to claim 3, wherein the second die is a different die from the first die, and wherein the examination tool is further configured to capture, in runtime, the one or more second images representing the one or more portions of the second die and provide the one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on the one or more second images.
5. The computerized system according to claim 4, wherein the first die is a reference die used for performing the partitioning, the second die is an inspection die, and wherein the partitioning is performed in a setup phase.
6. The computerized system according to claim 4, wherein the first die is a reference die used for inspection of the second die, the second die is an inspection die, and wherein the partitioning is performed in runtime.
7. The computerized system according to claim 3, wherein the second die is the first die, and the one or more second images are one or more first images captured for the one or more portions of the first die, and wherein the partitioning is performed in runtime.
8. The computerized system according to claim 1, wherein the examination tool is an inspection tool configured to scan the specimen to capture the image data and the one or more second images.
9. The computerized system according to claim 3, wherein the set of attributes are selected from a bank of attribute candidates comprising one or more predefined attributes and one or more attributes generated using a machine learning model.
10. The computerized system according to claim 9, wherein the set of attributes include the one or more attributes generated using the machine learning model, and wherein the processing unit is further configured to generate the one or more attributes using the machine learning model.
11. The computerized system according to claim 10, wherein the machine learning model is trained by generating training attributes and using the training attributes to predict noise, wherein the predicted noise is compared with reference noise generated by a defect detection algorithm to optimize the machine learning model, such that the trained machine learning model is capable of generating the one or more attributes characterizing the first image and representative of spatial patterns thereof indicative of different noise levels.
12. The computerized system according to claim 1, wherein the associating each region with one segmentation label comprises ranking the score calculated for each region and grouping the plurality of regions to the set of segments based on the ranking.
13. The computerized system according to claim 1, wherein the defect detection comprises configuring a detection threshold for each segment.
14. A computerized method of defect detection on a specimen, the method performed by a processing unit operatively connected to an examination tool, the processing unit comprising a memory and a processor operatively coupled thereto, the method comprising: performing partitioning for each portion of one or more portions of a first die of a specimen, wherein the partitioning for a given portion of the one or more portions is performed based on at least one of: i) image data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in image space, and ii) design data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in design space; receiving, from the examination tool, in runtime, one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on one or more second images captured for one or more portions of a second die of the specimen, the first die and the second die characterized by same design data; and performing segmentation for each of the one or more noise maps in runtime, wherein the segmentation for a given noise map of the one or more noise maps is performed by: calculating a score for each region of the plurality of regions, wherein the given noise map is aligned with the plurality of regions and each region thereof is associated with noise data aligned therein, and wherein the score for a given region of the plurality of regions is calculated at least based on the noise data associated therewith; and associating each region with one segmentation label of a predefined set of segmentation labels indicative of different noise levels based on the calculated score, thereby obtaining a set of segments each corresponding to one or more regions associated with the same segmentation label; wherein the set of segments are usable for defect detection on the specimen based on the given noise map.
15. The computerized method of claim 14, further comprising capturing, by the examination tool, the image data including a first image representing the given portion, wherein the partitioning is performed based on the image data, and the plurality of regions in the image space are obtained on the first image based on values of corresponding locations in attribute space specified by a set of attributes characterizing the first image.
16. The computerized method according to claim 15, wherein the second die is a different die from the first die, the method further comprising capturing, by the examination tool in runtime, the one or more second images representing the one or more portions of the second die and providing the one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on the one or more second images.
17. The computerized method according to claim 16, wherein the first die is a reference die used for performing the partitioning, the second die is an inspection die, and wherein the partitioning is performed in a setup phase.
18. The computerized method according to claim 15, wherein the set of attributes include one or more attributes generated using machine learning model, the method further comprising generating the one or more attributes using the machine learning model.
19. The computerized method according to claim 18, wherein the machine learning model is trained by generating training attributes and using the training attributes to predict noise, wherein the predicted noise is compared with reference noise generated by a defect detection algorithm to optimize the machine learning model, such that the trained machine learning model is capable of generating the one or more attributes characterizing the first image and representative of spatial patterns thereof indicative of different noise levels.
20. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a program of instructions that, when executed by a computer, cause the computer to perform a method of defect detection on a specimen, the method comprising: performing partitioning for each portion of one or more portions of a first die of the specimen, wherein the partitioning for a given portion of the one or more portions is performed based on at least one of: i) image data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in image space, and ii) design data characterizing the given portion, thereby giving rise to a plurality of regions in design space; receiving, in runtime, one or more noise maps indicative of noise distribution on one or more second images captured for one or more portions of a second die of the specimen, the first die and the second die characterized by the same design data; and performing segmentation for each of the one or more noise maps in runtime, wherein the segmentation for a given noise map of the one or more noise maps is performed by: calculating a score for each region of the plurality of regions, wherein the given noise map is aligned with the plurality of regions and each region thereof is associated with noise data aligned therein, and wherein the score for a given region of the plurality of regions is calculated at least based on the noise data associated therewith; and associating each region with one segmentation label of a predefined set of segmentation labels indicative of different noise levels based on the calculated score, thereby obtaining a set of segments each corresponding to one or more regions associated with the same segmentation label; wherein the set of segments are usable for the defect detection on the specimen based on the given noise map.
</claims>
</document>
