<document>

<filing_date>
2015-12-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-08-11
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2015-09-22
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/951,G06F17/30,G06F3/0481,G06F3/0484,G06F3/0488
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS COMPANY
</assignee>

<inventors>
FRANCIS THOMAS
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
58282877
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Performing application-specific searches using touchscreen-enabled computing devices
</title>

<abstract>
Systems and methods are provided and include receiving, at a touchscreen of a user device, a user input from a user of the user device, the user input selecting an application (app) icon displayed at the touchscreen. The user device receives a search query from the user. In response to receiving the user input and the search query, the user device generates search results based on the search query, each search result specifying a state of a native app associated with the app icon. The user device displays the search results to the user.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method for improving searching performance for a user device, the method comprising: receiving, at a touchscreen of the user device, a user input selecting an application and receiving, at the user device, a search query; in response to receiving the user input and the search query, searching content of a specific app stored in a memory of the user device based on the user input and the search query without opening the specific app, wherein the specific app corresponds to the application selected by the user input and the specific app is executable on the user device; generating, by at least one processor of the user device, search results based on the searched content of the specific app, each of the search results being a user selectable link to a different state of the specific app; displaying, on the touchscreen of the user device, the search results; receiving, at the touchscreen of the user device, another user input selecting one of the search results; and displaying a screen associated with a state of the specific app corresponding to the selected search result.
2. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises at least one of a finger contact input or a pressure input with respect to the touchscreen.
3. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a momentary user input having a duration shorter than a predetermined threshold duration.
4. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a user input comprising a predetermined gesture having a duration longer than a predetermined threshold duration.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input comprises a predetermined user gesture with respect to the touchscreen.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the user input and the search query comprises receiving the search query after receiving the user input.
7. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the search query comprises receiving the search query via voice input.
8. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the search query comprises receiving the search query via text input.
9. The method of claim 1, wherein the receiving of the search query comprises: providing, using the user device, a user prompt; and receiving the search query as a response to the user prompt.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the providing of the user prompt comprises providing one or more of: a visual output at the touchscreen; a sound output; a voice command output; or a vibration output.
11. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the search results comprises: determining, by the at least one processor, a storage location included on the user device and corresponding to the specific app; performing, by the at least one processor, a search of the storage location using the search query; and generating, by the at least one processor, the search results based on the search of the storage location.
12. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the search results comprises: determining, by the at least one processor, an app programming interface (API) corresponding to the specific app; querying, using the user device, the API using the search query; and receiving, at the user device, the search results from the API in response to the querying of the API.
13. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the search results comprises: transmitting, using the user device, the search query to a search system configured to generate search results in response to a received search query; and receiving, at the user device, the search results from the search system in response to transmitting the search query.
14. The method of claim 13, further comprising transmitting, using the user device, an indication of the specific app to the search system, wherein the receiving of the search results from the search system comprises receiving the search results in response to transmitting the indication.
15. The method of claim 1, wherein the generating of the search results comprises: launching, using the user device, the specific app; and providing, using the user device, one or more commands to the specific app to cause the at least one processor to generate the search results.
16. The method of claim 1, wherein the search results include one or more app access mechanisms (AAMs), wherein each AAM references the specific app and indicates one or more operations for the specific app to perform, and wherein performing the one or more operations sets the specific app into one of a plurality of states.
17. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the search results comprises forwarding the search results for display as one or more user selectable links to a computing device other than the user device.
18. The method of claim 1, wherein the displaying of the search results comprises: launching, using the user device, the specific app; and displaying, using a graphical user interface (GUI) of the specific app, the search results as one or more user selectable links.
19. The method of claim 1, wherein the search results specify at least a first state of a first specific app, a second state of the first specific app, and a third state of a second specific app.
20. The method of claim 1, wherein the searching of the content of the specific app including searching of content of a plurality of native apps that are installed on the user device.
21. The method of claim 1, wherein the user input is performed while the search query is received.
22. A computing device for improving search results, the computing device comprising: a touchscreen configured to display an application and receive a user input; an input/output component configured to receive a search query; one or more memory components configured to store computer-readable instructions; and at least one processor configured to execute the computer-readable instructions, wherein the computer-readable instructions, when executed by the at least one processor, cause the at least one processor to: receive the user input at the touchscreen, the user input selecting the application and receive the search query using the input/output component, in response to receiving the user input and the search query, search content of a specific app stored in the one or more memory components based on the user input and the search query without opening the specific app, wherein the specific app corresponds to the application selected by the user input and the specific app is executable on the computing device, generate search results based on the searched content of the specific app, each of the search results being a user selectable link to a different state of the specific app, display, on the touchscreen, the search results, receive, at the touchscreen, another user input selecting one of the search results, and display, on the touchscreen, a screen associated with a state of the specific app corresponding to the selected search result.
</claims>
</document>
