<document>

<filing_date>
2019-03-20
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-10-06
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-03-20
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
H04N13/398,H04N7/01,H04N9/31
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
DELTA ELECTRONICS
</assignee>

<inventors>
YANG, CHUNG-YI
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
67983882
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Projection display apparatus and method for controlling the same
</title>

<abstract>
A projection display apparatus includes a first operating mode, a second operating mode, a processing circuit, a control circuit, an imaging device and a shifting device. The processing circuit receives an input video signal, the input video signal includes an input video feature, the control circuit selectively switches the projection display apparatus to the first operating mode or the second operating mode according to the input video feature or the operating condition, the imaging device receives the first output video signal and outputs a plurality of first output video images corresponding to the first output video signal, and the imaging device is further configured to receive the second output video signal and output a plurality of second output video images corresponding to the second output video signal.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A projection display apparatus, comprising: a control circuit configured to control the projection display apparatus to operate in a first operating mode or a second operating mode according to an input video feature of an input video signal or an operating condition; a processing circuit configured to receive the input video signal, wherein in the first operating mode, the processing circuit converts the input video signal into a first output video signal, and wherein in the second operating mode, the processing circuit converts the input video signal into a second output video signal; an imaging device configured to transform the first output video signal into a plurality of output video sub-images each having a first display resolution, wherein the output video sub-images respectively correspond to a plurality of sets of pixel regions that are alternatingly arranged in the first output video signal; a shifting device cooperating with the imaging device to project the output video sub-images onto a screen at respective times in the first operating mode or to directly project a second output video image corresponding to the second output video signal onto the screen in the second operating mode, wherein the output video sub-images projected onto the screen are misaligned with respect to each other to form a first output video image with an output resolution greater than the first display resolution; and a communication device configured to couple to stereoscopic glasses, wherein the operating condition comprises the communication device transmitting a stereoscopic left/right eye synchronization signal to the stereoscopic glasses, wherein if the stereoscopic left/right eye synchronization signal is active, the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the second operating mode.
2. The projection display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the first operating mode is a high resolution mode, and the second operating mode is a high frame rate mode.
3. The projection display apparatus of claim 2, wherein in the high frame rate mode, the processing circuit converts the input video signal into the second output video signal with a frame rate greater than that of the input video signal.
4. The projection display apparatus of claim 2, wherein in the high resolution mode, the shifting device shifts each of the output video sub-images in a uniaxial or biaxial direction to project the output video sub-images onto the screen.
5. The projection display apparatus of claim 3, wherein the input video feature comprises an input video resolution, wherein: if the input video resolution is greater than the first display resolution, the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the high resolution mode; and if the input video resolution is not greater than the first display resolution, the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the high frame rate mode.
6. The projection display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input video feature comprises: stereoscopic image information comprising an indication of the input video signal including left-eye image frames and right-eye image frames, wherein the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the second operating mode based on the stereoscopic image information.
7. The projection display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the input video feature comprises: a compression indicator comprising a video compression rate parameter, wherein the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the second operating mode based on the compression indicator.
8. The projection display apparatus of claim 1, further comprising: an adjustable lens, wherein the operating condition further comprises the projection display apparatus projecting an image according to a throw ratio corresponding to the adjustable lens, and wherein the control circuit switches the projection display apparatus to the first operating mode if the throw ratio is smaller than or equal to a preset throw ratio value.
9. A method for controlling a projection display apparatus, the method comprising: receiving, by a processing circuit, an input video signal comprising an input video feature; selectively switching, by a control circuit, the projection display apparatus to a first operating mode or a second operating mode according to the input video feature or an operating condition of the projection display apparatus, wherein the operating condition comprises a stereoscopic left/right eye synchronization signal transmitted to stereoscopic glasses by a communication device the of projection display apparatus, and wherein the projection display apparatus is switched to the second operating mode by the control circuit if the stereoscopic left/right eye synchronization signal is active; converting, by the processing circuit, the input video signal into a first output video signal if the projection display apparatus is switched to the first operating mode; converting, by the processing circuit, the input video signal into a second output video signal if the projection display apparatus is switched to the second operating mode; transforming, by an imaging device, the first output video signal into a plurality of output video sub-images each having a first display resolution, wherein the output video sub-images respectively correspond to a plurality of sets of pixel regions that are alternatingly arranged in the first output video signal; projecting, by a shifting device cooperating with the imaging device, the output video sub-images onto a screen at respective times in the first operating mode, wherein the output video sub-images projected onto the screen are misaligned with respect to each other to form a first output video image with an output resolution greater than the first display resolution; and directly projecting, by the shifting device cooperating with the imaging device, a second output video image corresponding to the second output video signal onto the screen in the second operating mode.
10. The method of claim 9, wherein the first operating mode is a high resolution mode, and the second operating mode is a high frame rate mode, wherein the method further comprises: converting, by the processing circuit, the input video signal into the second output video signal in the high frame rate mode, wherein the second output video signal has a frame rate greater than that of the input video signal.
11. The method of claim 10, further comprising: shifting, by the shifting device, each of the output video sub-images in a uniaxial or biaxial direction to project the output video sub-images onto the screen if the projection display apparatus is switched to the high frame rate mode.
12. The method of claim 10, wherein the input video feature comprises an input video resolution, and the method further comprises: determining, by the processing circuit, if the input video resolution is greater than the first display resolution, and if yes, switching the projection display apparatus, by the control circuit, to the high resolution mode; otherwise, switching the projection display apparatus, by the control circuit, to the high frame rate mode.
13. The method of claim 9, further comprising: switching, by the control circuit, the projection display apparatus to the second operating mode if the input video feature comprises stereoscopic image information indicating that the input video signal includes left-eye image frames and right-eye image frames.
14. The method of claim 9, further comprising: switching, by the control circuit, the projection display apparatus to the second operating mode if the input video feature comprises a compression indicator with a video compression rate parameter.
15. The method of claim 9, wherein the operating condition further comprises the projection display apparatus projecting an image based on a throw ratio thereof, and the method further comprises: switching, by the control circuit, the projection display apparatus to the first operating mode if the throw ratio is less than a preset throw ratio value.
16. The method of claim 10, wherein the input video feature comprises an input video resolution, and the operating condition is that the projection display apparatus projects an image based on a throw ratio thereof, wherein the method further comprises: switching, by the control circuit, the projection display apparatus to the high resolution mode if the input video resolution is greater than the first display resolution and the throw ratio is smaller than or equal to a preset throw ratio value.
17. The projection display apparatus of claim 1, wherein the shifting device is configured to shift the output video sub-images respectively in upper-right, upper-left, lower-right and lower-left directions relative to a non-shifted projection area of the screen.
18. The method of claim 9, wherein projecting the output video sub-images comprises: projecting the output video sub-images respectively in shifted projection areas of the screen shifting from a non-shifted projection area of the screen respectively in upper-right, upper-left, lower-right and lower-left directions.
</claims>
</document>
