<document>

<filing_date>
2017-11-28
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-03-24
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2017-11-28
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06Q50/00,H04L12/58,H04L29/06
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
VUKOVIC, MAJA
ZENG, SAI
HWANG, JINHO
MAYO, VIRGINIA
BULUT, MUHAMMED FATIH
CHAVEZ, LISA
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
66632884
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Automatically assessing a severity of a vulnerability via social media
</title>

<abstract>
A method and system of identifying technical experts for an identified vulnerability is provided. One or more technical experts for each of one or more categories of the vulnerability are identified. Questions are sent to and answers are received from the one or more identified technical experts for each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, via a chatbot module. Answers to parameters that are missing for a Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) for the identified vulnerability are determined from the received answers to the parameters. The answers to the parameters are validated and a CVSS score is calculated based on the validated determined answers.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A computing device comprising: a processor; a network interface coupled to the processor to enable communication over a network; a storage device coupled to the processor; a vulnerability engine code stored in the storage device, wherein an execution of the code by the processor configures the computing device to perform acts comprising: identifying a vulnerability related to a computing device; identifying one or more technical experts for each of one or more categories of vulnerabilities of the identified vulnerability; iteratively sending questions to and receiving answers from one or more identified technical experts in each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, via a chatbot module of the computing device; determining answers to parameters that are missing for a common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS) for the identified vulnerability, from the received answers from the one or more identified technical experts; validating the determined answers to the parameters; and creating a CVSS score based on the validated determined answers.
2. The computing device of claim 1, wherein identifying a vulnerability related to a computing device comprises: monitoring social media communication; identifying social media threads that are related to a potential vulnerability of a computing device, based on the monitored social media communication; filtering the identified social media threads by removing SPAM postings therefrom; classifying the filtered identified social media threads into one or more categories of vulnerabilities; and upon determining that a number of social media posts of the social media threads that are related to the potential vulnerability is above a predetermined threshold, classifying the potential vulnerability as a vulnerability.
3. The computing device of claim 1, wherein identifying a vulnerability related to a computing device comprises: receiving a data packet from a database, the data packet including a name of the vulnerability without a corresponding calibrated CVSS score.
4. The computing device of claim 1, wherein identifying one or more technical experts for the one or more predetermined categories of vulnerabilities comprises: receiving social media communication from a social media repository; for each contributor of the social media communication that is related to a vulnerability: evaluating one or more expertise parameters comprising at least one of: (i) a peer vote; (ii) a number of views; (iii) a number of comments; and (iv) a number of retweets; determining one or more categories of vulnerabilities of expertise of the contributor; for each category of vulnerability of expertise of the contributor: assigning an expertise score to the contributor based on the expertise parameters; upon determining that the contributor has an expertise score that is above a predetermined threshold for the category of vulnerability: classifying the contributor as a technical expert for the category of vulnerability; and storing a profile of the technical expert, including the expertise score for the category of vulnerability, in a profile database.
5. The computing device of claim 4, wherein the social media communication is received from the social media repository at predetermined intervals via the network interface.
6. The computing device of claim 4, wherein the predetermined threshold is different for each category of vulnerability.
7. The computing device of claim 1, wherein validating the determined answers to the parameters comprises, for each parameter: weighting each answer for the parameter for each technical expert based on an expertise score of the technical expert; aggregating a net score based on the weighted answers from all technical experts for the parameter; and identifying the answer having a highest net score as the validated answer for the parameter.
8. The computing device of claim 1, wherein iteratively sending questions to and receiving answers from the one or more identified technical experts in each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, comprises: identifying a list of CVSS parameters that are missing; interactively asking the one or more identified technical experts questions based on the missing CVSS parameters; for each of the one or more identified technical experts: using natural learning processing (NLP) to process a raw natural language content of each answer; extracting the missing CVSS parameters from each processed answer; and storing each answer for the parameter in the storage device.
9. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the identification of technical experts is performed during a training phase that is before the identification of the vulnerability.
10. The computing device of claim 1, wherein iteratively sending questions to and receiving answers from the one or more identified technical experts in each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, via a chatbot module of the computing device comprises, for each technical expert: extracting meaningful one or more sentences from each response of the technical expert via natural learning processing (NLP); and determining an intent of each response via concept expansion.
11. The computing device of claim 1, wherein the one or more categories of vulnerabilities include at least one of: Denial of Service (DOS); SQL Injection; code execution; and memory corruption.
12. The computing device of claim 1, further comprising, upon determining the CVSS score of the vulnerability, sending a notification to one or more computing devices that are deemed to be affected or are at risk to be affected by the identified vulnerability.
13. A non-transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly embodying a computer readable program code having computer readable instructions that, when executed, causes a computer device to carry out a method of determining a common vulnerability scoring system (CVSS) score for an identified vulnerability related to a computing device, the method comprising: identifying one or more technical experts for each of one or more categories of vulnerabilities of the identified vulnerability; iteratively sending questions to and receiving answers from one or more identified technical experts in each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, via a chatbot module; determining answers to parameters that are missing for the CVSS for the identified vulnerability, from the received answers from the one or more identified technical experts; validating the determined answers to the parameters; and calculating the CVSS score based on the validated determined answers.
14. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the vulnerability related to a computing device is identified by: monitoring social media communication; identifying social media threads that are related to a potential vulnerability of a computing device, based on the monitored social media communication; filtering the identified social media threads by removing SPAM postings therefrom; classifying the filtered identified social media threads into one or more categories of vulnerabilities; and upon determining that a number of social media posts of the social media threads that are related to the potential vulnerability is above a predetermined threshold, classifying the potential vulnerability as a vulnerability.
15. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein identifying one or more technical experts for the one or more predetermined categories of vulnerabilities comprises: receiving social media communication from a social media repository; for each contributor of the social media communication that is related to a vulnerability: evaluating one or more expertise parameters comprising at least one of: (i) a peer vote; (ii) a number of views; (iii) a number of comments; and (iv) a number of retweets; determining one or more categories of vulnerabilities of expertise of the contributor; for each category of vulnerability of expertise of the contributor: assigning an expertise score to the contributor based on the expertise parameters; upon determining that the contributor has an expertise score that is above a predetermined threshold for the category of vulnerability: classifying the contributor as a technical expert for the category of vulnerability; and storing a profile of the technical expert, including the expertise score for the category of vulnerability, in a profile database.
16. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 15, wherein the predetermined threshold is different for each category of vulnerability.
17. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein validating the determined answers to the parameters comprises, for each parameter: weighting each answer for the parameter for each technical expert based on an expertise score of the technical expert; aggregating a net score based on the weighted answers from all technical experts for the parameter; and identifying the answer having a highest net score as the validated answer for the parameter.
18. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein iteratively sending questions to and receiving answers from the one or more identified technical experts in each of the one or more categories of vulnerabilities, comprises: identifying a list of CVSS parameters that are missing; interactively asking the one or more identified technical experts questions based on the missing CVSS parameters; for each of the one or more identified technical experts: using natural learning processing (NLP) to process a raw natural language content of each answer; extracting the missing CVSS parameters from each processed answer; and storing each answer for the parameter in the storage device.
19. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, wherein the one or more categories of vulnerabilities include at least one of: Denial of Service (DOS); SQL Injection; code execution; and memory corruption.
20. The non-transitory computer readable storage medium of claim 13, further comprising, upon determining the CVSS score of the vulnerability, sending a notification to one or more computing devices that are deemed to be affected or are at risk to be affected by the identified vulnerability.
</claims>
</document>
