<document>

<filing_date>
2018-04-25
</filing_date>

<publication_date>
2020-11-10
</publication_date>

<priority_date>
2018-04-25
</priority_date>

<ipc_classes>
G06F16/2453,G06N20/00,G06N99/00
</ipc_classes>

<assignee>
IBM (INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION)
</assignee>

<inventors>
SHMUELI, ODED
BORDAWEKAR, RAJESH
</inventors>

<docdb_family_id>
68292482
</docdb_family_id>

<title>
Semantic relational database operations
</title>

<abstract>
A method, computer program product and/or system is disclosed. According to an aspect of this invention, one or more processors receive a query of a first database, where the query includes: (i) an operand, and (ii) an operator indicating a distance-based similarity measure. One or more processors further determine a result set based on the query, wherein the result set includes a plurality of records, and wherein a record is included in the result set based on a vector nearest-neighbor computation between: (i) a first vector corresponding to the operand, and (ii) a second vector corresponding to the record, wherein the second vector is included in a vector space model that is based on a textual representation of the first database.
</abstract>

<claims>
1. A method, comprising: generating, by one or more processors, a vector space model based on a textual representation of a first database; training, by one or more processors, the vector space model, wherein the training includes hashing vectors in the vector space model to respective keys, and wherein vectors having a same direction in the vector space model are hashed to the same respective key; receiving, by one or more processors, a query of the first database, wherein the query includes: (i) an operand, and (ii) an operator indicating a distance-based similarity measure; and determining, by one or more processors, a result set based on the query, wherein the result set includes a plurality of records, wherein a record is included in the result set based on a vector nearest-neighbor computation between: (i) a first vector corresponding to the operand, and (ii) a second vector corresponding to the record, wherein the second vector is included in the vector space model, and wherein the second vector has a respective key within a certain Hamming distance of a respective key of the first vector.
2. The method of claim 1, further comprising: generating, by one or more processors, the textual representation of the first database, wherein the textual representation includes a concatenation of a plurality of tables of the first database related by a foreign key.
3. The method of claim 2, wherein the vector space model is further trained based on: (i) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from one or more databases, including the first database; and (ii) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from an external data source.
4. The method of claim 2, wherein generating the textual representation of the first database further comprises pre-processing, by one or more processors, the textual representation, wherein the pre-processing includes lowercasing, lemmatization, word grouping, and tokenization.
5. The method of claim 1, wherein the vector-nearest neighbor computation is performed in accordance with an ordinal cosine distance.
6. The method of claim 1, wherein the query corresponds to a structured query language (SQL) query.
7. A computer program product, comprising: one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions stored on the one or more computer readable storage media, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to generate a vector space model based on a textual representation of a first database; program instructions to train the vector space model, wherein the training includes hashing vectors in the vector space model to respective keys, and wherein vectors having a same direction in the vector space model are hashed to the same respective key; program instructions to receive a query of the first database, wherein the query includes: (i) an operand, and (ii) an operator indicating a distance-based similarity measure; and program instructions to determine a result set based on the query, wherein the result set includes a plurality of records, wherein a record is included in the result set based on a vector nearest-neighbor computation between: (i) a first vector corresponding to the operand, and (ii) a second vector corresponding to the record, wherein the second vector is included in the vector space model, and wherein the second vector has a respective key within a certain Hamming distance of a respective key of the first vector.
8. The computer program product of claim 7, the stored program instructions further comprising: program instructions to generate the textual representation of the first database, wherein the textual representation includes a concatenation of a plurality of tables of the first database related by a foreign key.
9. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the vector space model is further trained based on: (i) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from one or more databases, including the first database; and (ii) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from an external data source.
10. The computer program product of claim 8, wherein the program instructions to generate the textual representation of the first database further comprise program instructions to pre-process the textual representation, wherein the pre-processing includes lowercasing, lemmatization, word grouping, and tokenization.
11. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the vector-nearest neighbor computation is performed in accordance with an ordinal cosine distance.
12. The computer program product of claim 7, wherein the query corresponds to a structured query language (SQL) query.
13. A computer system, comprising: one or more computer processors; one or more computer readable storage media; and program instructions, stored on the one or more computer readable storage media for execution by at least one of the one or more processors, the stored program instructions comprising: program instructions to generate a vector space model based on a textual representation of a first database; program instructions to train the vector space model, wherein the training includes hashing vectors in the vector space model to respective keys, and wherein vectors having a same direction in the vector space model are hashed to the same respective key; program instructions to receive a query of the first database, wherein the query includes: (i) an operand, and (ii) an operator indicating a distance-based similarity measure; and program instructions to determine a result set based on the query, wherein the result set includes a plurality of records, wherein a record is included in the result set based on a vector nearest-neighbor computation between: (i) a first vector corresponding to the operand, and (ii) a second vector corresponding to the record, wherein the second vector is included in the vector space model, and wherein the second vector has a respective key within a certain Hamming distance of a respective key of the first vector.
14. The computer system of claim 13, the stored program instructions further comprising: program instructions to generate the textual representation of the first database, wherein the textual representation includes a concatenation of a plurality of tables of the first database related by a foreign key.
15. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the vector space model is further trained based on: (i) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from one or more databases, including the first database; and (ii) text entity sequences derived, at least in part, from an external data source.
16. The computer system of claim 14, wherein the program instructions to generate the textual representation of the first database further comprise program instructions to pre-process the textual representation, wherein the pre-processing includes lowercasing, lemmatization, word grouping, and tokenization.
17. The computer system of claim 13, wherein the vector-nearest neighbor computation is performed in accordance with an ordinal cosine distance.
</claims>
</document>
